ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! We begin the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Breda Pečan from 12.15 to 18.30, Jožef Jerovšek, Laszlo Göncz from 16:00 to 19:00 and Miran Jerič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A ROAD LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport. Here, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Public Roads has been amended several times in 13 years, but many provisions in the current Law on Public Roads have become obsolete and ineffective and should therefore be updated, modernised and adapted to the current situation. Following the entry into force of the law, new systemic and sectoral laws or their novelties were adopted, the individual solutions of which are incompatible with the solutions in the current law. The new bill removes and harmonises the new provisions of the Roads Act with the applicable systemic and sectoral laws affecting the regulation of the area of public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of Directive 2008/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the improvement of the safety of road infrastructure, which sets out the minimum safety requirements of road infrastructure for state roads, which form part of the trans-European road network, is also an important reason for the adoption of the Road Act. Finally, we must not forget the transmission of content from the current Road Safety Act relating to road infrastructure safety. We agree with the amendment to Article 78, which introduces a ban on the placing of electronic displays, but due to arrangements in the interim, the matter must also be settled in transitional provisions, probably through a harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 14th meeting, held on 1 December 2010, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Roads. We must say that, on a proposal from the law, a group of Members and Members requested a general debate, and this has also been done by the National Assembly. In view of the fact that the general debate was held, also in the introduction Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič did not recapture the entire content of the law, but rather identified himself to the amendments of the parliamentary groups. In particular those who take account of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Of course, he supported them and this was also important for the Committee’s further work. While the rule of law only raised one question, the provisions repealing the Road Traffic Safety Act were highlighted by the legal and legal service. In fact, the law itself is divided into several laws. Each individual dealt with in today's package must have a provision repealing the provisions of the Road Traffic Safety Act relating to roads, drivers, vehicles and so on. The Council of State has also dealt with and supported this law. However, several amendments were tabled in the context of the second reading. Parliamentary amendments were tabled by colleagues Jakob Presečnik and Janez Ribič. These were 15. The coalition groups tabled 89 amendments. However, the Committee has also drawn up some of its amendments on a proposal from the Government. So a broad discussion was held on individual articles. In some articles, Members were particularly reminded that the issue of removing traffic signals on a motorway or a fast road is an open issue and that the organisers or operators of emergency transport must get to know all the competent transport safety services in advance. The debate then concluded that this issue was being further examined and also tried in practice to avoid problems without specific changes in the law. The questions also related to the arrangements for the crossing of roads and railways. Indeed, some news of this law brings this subject. The issue of funding and the role of municipalities and states in this regard is being raised. An important issue was also the setting up of information and advertising facilities 300 metres from the state road, especially outside the settlement. The Dark Sky of Slovenia was also at this meeting, and it was also particularly debated at this point. Following the amendments under consideration, the Committee also voted on these amendments. On the basis of the articles thus adopted, which were recast by the content of the amendments adopted, he then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. And such a complementary bill is also ready for today's hearing at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you. Since the 21st meeting held the first reading of the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 December 2010. First, I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Is it a wish to discuss it? I'm opening the application. Mr. Marinic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are also monitoring all the content of the amendments tabled by individual parliamentary groups. However, the content of the amendment to Article 9 of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which we have already discussed on the Committee on Transport, needs to be considered. The content of this amendment is a proposal to improve a certain situation and it would therefore be appropriate to include the content in the law itself. It is a pity that this has not yet happened, but it is still possible to include the contents of this amendment in the law itself, as it often happens that everything related to a variety of interventions, when it comes to any extraordinary events on Slovenian roads, is often the intervention path of the one deciding on emergency assistance. Most of the time, ensuring such intervention means winning the battle for life. And when we look deeper at the contents of this proposal, we come up with these questions, or here we are looking for answers. The amendment would certainly be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, Your Honor. Nicely greeted! In the Slovenian People's Party, we decided to reintroduce the two amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Roads, Article 9, once again, by amending or deleting paragraph 4 and reading: "In order to effectively implement protection and resolution in the event of traffic and other accidents, public roads must have ensured intervention access to vehicles. The conditions for the establishment and method of establishment and the purpose and method of use of intervention routes shall be laid down by the Minister responsible for transport." By way of explanation: The amendment amends the text of the fourth paragraph by deleting the provision prohibiting the use of intervention routes as a public road because it is pointless to prohibit it. It is irrational that such large funds will be used to accommodate these routes, which will then not be used. Such a provision would imply an unreasonable and unreasonable use of public funds, as it means buying up land, regulating the necessary documentation, project design and implementation, and later maintaining these routes in a manner similar to that of a similar amount of funds as would have been necessary for public transport. We propose a compromise with the amendment. In the second reading, we proposed that the conditions and criteria for placement should be laid down in the design regulation. By means of a sub-law, the Minister may determine at any time why and how intervention routes may be used for public transport in order to continue to serve their primary purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 9 and the two amendments to this Article? I don't see any interest. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Yeah. I can only see one hand. Mr. Fish, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. We also consider that in the first paragraph, a new 12th indent is added for the eleventh indent, which reads as follows: "acquiring data on vehicle axle loads:" This is explained in the following way: We add to the tasks and competences of the Directorate also obtaining data on vehicle axle loads, which in our opinion is missing. Exceeding axle load is the most dangerous mistake of emergency transport, as it causes the most damage on the roads. It is therefore appropriate that the Slovenian Company for Roads also obtains this information because, without any indication, it has no jurisdiction to prevent the traffic from being too heavy on the road, which is what the operators of the emergency transports that are most likely to harm the vehicles are keen to take advantage of. This provision is lacking in the law, since it is only certain to obtain data on excess dimensions, such as height, width and length and mass of vehicles. It would be appropriate to add jurisdiction with regard to the acquisition of axle loads, since the provisions in the law are also set out separately in other articles concerning restrictions and penalties on the mass of vehicles and separately with regard to axle loads.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you. Anyone else on this article and the amendment? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 65 and the amendment of the coalition parties to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one hand. Mr. Marinic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, you know, what always raises some doubts and remains indisputable forever is the very content of this proposal, where it says: the Minister responsible for transport may be on individual state roads. So the minister can, he can, but he can't. I am very sorry when we come to such content, where we have not been sufficiently precise and precise, with which the proposer or the law we adopt can be adopted without any dilemma, yes or no. It seems to me that this may be far too much, and as few as possible, we may or may not be looking at things. It is my opinion that when new legislation is created, as well as complementary proposals for individual laws, it may or may not be bypassed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 65? Yeah, I can see more hands. I'm opening the application. Mrs. Roach, please! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I agree here with my colleague Marinic. I believe that the word "may" in this case should be deleted from the amendment. However, given that I hope that the amendment will be adopted, and I also suggest to my colleague Marinic that he vote for it, because then in the third reading, we can delete this word "may". I must recall the period in which, in terms of traffic or driving of goods vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 7 and a half tonnes must be prohibited and all these vehicles have been diverted to motorways and state roads which did not pass through settlements. I think that at the time, for the inhabitants of these settlements, which, although or through which trucks weigh more than 7 tonnes and a half, were very disruptive to their lives, and then to the pressure of both motorists and some of them, I will say just after home, the innkeepers who demanded that the trucks still have the right to drive on these roads, regardless of the fact that they had the opportunity to drive on much better and faster roads, then this obligation of ban was lifted. The situation for some settlements is unsustainable again. I think that the text should be that the Minister responsible for transport should be on individual state roads passing through or past the settlement, etc., without the word "may", meaning that it does so without any exceptions, because it is also necessary to take care of life, health and especially of people, and also the end of the normal use of roads in settlements, which are now state-owned, because we know that, if I am not mistaken, 42% of state roads go through settlements.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I called earlier for one other reason. In fact, I would like to assume that the amendments that are given, particularly those that are not from the coalition, were created in cooperation with representatives of the government or the ministry. I would also like a representative of the Government or the Secretary of State to give an opinion. A little while ago, because I hoped for free that he would give an opinion on the amendment to Articles 9 and 55, also in order to make it easier for all of us to decide together in the vote. But since I've reached out to this member, I must say that I disagree with my previous discussers. Because, if we delete the word "may" or even give the word "mora", then of course, the meaning is completely different. We can't just say in advance that traffic through heavy-vehicle settlements is just in every settlement and on every route, etc. prohibited, as this would result from this Article. So I'm sure this coalition amendment, paragraph five, is amended paragraph five. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you. Dr. Jakomin, you always have a chance to sign up. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. It is right to speak a little more about this amendment, which in fact points to a major problem of wider content, namely freight transport, freight transport arrangements related to road conditions, road safety, etc. As far as is clear, the amendment of the coalition groups is different in the part where it speaks with the same content in the original, but in the original it says that these are the trucks whose start and end of transport is outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is in the original text. This part is deleted in the amendment, as we consider good in the Slovenian National Party. It is certainly true, however, that fellow Members who spoke before me have set a very legitimate dilemma. The marriage was supposed to be binding. So I'm not supposed to be giving you any options, but in principle I should be setting some kind of solution. On the other hand, the previous speaker is correct. That's why we're here without experts, without the expert opinion of the Ministry, we can be in a dilemma. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the intention of the amendment to Article 65, because it solves or solves problems, even where industrial roads are set up, which, for such or other reasons, car carriers, i.e. trucks weighing more than 7 tonnes, do not take into account and prefer to take the route through the settlement or by the settlement because it is shorter because it is more favourable, etc. As has already been said, I think that the proposaler wanted the part that he may or the Minister may prohibit traffic along the state road through the village or next to the settlement, if there is a better way along, to those trucks whose way has begun and begins outside Slovenia or ends outside Slovenia. This has now been eliminated and applies to all trucks. There is, of course, a great questionableness here as well. So I think it would be really good if respected colleagues from the Ministry of Transport would tell us their opinion, their opinion and their assessment. This is one of the ways in which we want and start to solve the really burning problem of trucks, because Slovenian motorways are no longer motorways, let alone - the case today of both motorways closed and all freight traffic, which is no longer called freight traffic, but convoys, has also shifted to the only car used by thousands of passenger vehicles. In particular, I am talking about the direction of Trojana-Ljubljana and Novo mesto-Ljubljana, where migration is insanely large. And there are only convoys. There is only one lane for trucks, in fact there is no highway at all, and it is premature for passenger cars - until what happened today happens. And those of us who experience this know that this may be one small drop into the sea of problems we have. I will be happy to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 65 and the amendment to this article? I can only see one hand. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm just thinking that it's worth calling when there's a new marriage. In fact, the Road Traffic Safety Act, now in force, is divided into four new laws. The Law on Roads and the Content of the Amendments is applicable regardless of whether they are coalition or opposition. It's a very important content. It is mainly encountered at the level of some of the smaller local communities when there is any traffic accident or any other congestion due to some other road barriers in a higher category. Then there's a dilemma. Those first called and rushed to the scene of the accident are the police. This is all due to the fact that such roadways become a practice, not only for domestic drivers, but also for foreign drivers who often drive on highways. We know what it's like to avoid paying tolls today. Increasingly, we find that freight traffic, including heavy trucks, is moving on the roads of the lower category to avoid paying the toll. That is why I have actually begun my thinking in this direction that it does not apply to anyone, either to the minister or to anyone else, so that, in a particular case, the wording of this article or of this amendment could be unequivocal. Example: "On a proposal from the local community, the Minister responsible for transport shall prescribe..." In all the content that has been discussed so far, we have faced difficulties because we did not have any sub-legislative acts in the draft law and we do not know what will be the further fate of the sub-legislative act to be prescribed by the competent ministry or by the minister. Something else could have arisen here and, say, by means of this sub-legislative act, ordered the Minister to automatically prescribe something, such as the local community or the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council or the new body of the new agency, if any, in certain needs arising from the contents of this amendment. In short, something that should be clearly stated, not by "may", "might", "or". We know what it's like to have problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and open the debate on Article 78 and the amendment of the coalition parties to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can see more hands. I'm opening the application. Mrs. Pecan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Although I think that this amendment limits the placement of advertising panels in general along state roads at least a little bit. However, I do not think that merely placing light winds is enough to limit it. For this reason, I predict that, while we will certainly support this amendment unanimously, because at least it limits these displays a little bit, I will try to obtain the agreement of the groups of Members in order to tighten these restrictions a little further. The fact is that Slovenia is overcrowded – probably the word "frightly" is not excessive and is not exaggerated – terribly full of different advertising boards, which we call a jumbo on one side and, on the other hand, mega or what they are called posters, which are otherwise placed in greater distances from roads, especially motorways. However, because they are quite remote, they immediately attract the view and deconcentrate the driver during the road trip. The other side of the medal is the electronic display, which also pollutes the sky and causes essentially the same effect as the headlamps do when driving across from each other, and thus makes blinding caused by such an electronic display even more dangerous. However, I believe that the ban on advertising boards should be extended, in particular those large dimensions which may often cause deconcentration of the driver, less attention of the driver and thus an increase in the possibility of traffic accidents, not only on motorways, but also on state roads. If we just look at what's happening lately before the entrances to the cities, how many jumbo posters are appearing, it's already set. I will say one more thing: Of course, the attention of the driver focuses on individual notices that in fact arouse interest in the driver in one way or another, especially because they are designed as puzzles and certainly distract him so much more from driving. I think that these prohibitions should be made more radically. This will achieve two effects. One very important effect is greater road safety. Others, perhaps less important in appearance, are certainly much more beautiful, uninterrupted and orderly around our main roads. I don't think we should follow countries such as Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, where they have such an abundance of these jumbo posters that it is no longer to believe. When you go from Vienna to Bratislava and cross the border, there are so many posters that you just don't come to your senses anymore, because it's something amazing. I hope that we will not do such a thing and that we will go to a reduction, but not continue to allow such disruptive facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u24	Good-bye! My colleague took away the idea of discussing the same matter. I'm sure electronic displays are very disruptive for drivers. This is the case in Nova Gorica, where a flashing advertising board, you don't know whether it's a radar or some other wrap, and turn your attention somewhere else. I would also like to say that in some cases we also have so many traffic signs on state roads that it is a real forest. Go to Goriška along the coastal highway and descend from Trench towards Nova Gorica and you will see. When you get to the tunnel, there are 28 traffic signs on both sides of the road. At night, when you light it up, they glow. Foreigners are suddenly blocking because they can't register what's all, that's the tunnel, that's the limit, that's the storm, and I don't know what's going on. That needs to be changed. This does not contribute to greater security and these things need to be reduced. I don't know why the restrictions through the tunnels are on the coast highway, but let's talk about another law. I'm sure that these tables, the jumbo posters, are too much for some commercial with beautiful women's feet that reminds us of selling shoes, driving, at least male sex, to divert attention somewhere else. And that's not good. I don't think that's why the sale of this product is so much bigger. Let's be sober here. I think that the 78th and 4th amendments are correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. It is certainly an adventurous time that helps to make everything glow and scream from different colors. But you know, the big advertising lobby here is unforgivable, and probably sometimes it blackmails us also because we need some advertising in the pre-election games. Here we need to consider the content of this amendment, which I think is too modest. Too modest in the sense that this advertising lobby has bypassed that part of the profession that should care about ensuring safety on Slovenian roads. There are few cases, and I do not know whether the Ministry also has the data on how many well-founded and proven causes of traffic accidents have occurred precisely because these flashes on these huge screens caused a reduced concentration time or reaction time in the driver, when it should start to stop due to the content that occurs along the road, right next to the road, literally put them in the head. Throughout the entire discussion so far, we have felt that it is necessary and we specifically wanted the applicants to obtain a sub-law because we are adopting here the content of a certain article of a law, which can then be bypassed by some of the content that we have adopted here. And it's here again that this submarital act, regulation or instruction or whatever will be issued is missing. On the basis of this, we do not know many times what will happen. I would really like the contents of this amendment to be extended as it has been heard from some of the debaters so far, to the content of this Article 78 or the amendment to Article 78. Therefore, the content of this proposal is too modest in view of some flowering of this modern technology and technology when we are talking about advertising. And when advertisers sum up where the most insights are, it is clear that it is on the roads that are most burdened, it is said, where the density of vehicles is the highest. This is where the profession differs in this area, which identifies where it is best to put an ad, while ignoring the importance that should be given priority, ensuring greater safety on Slovenian roads. And if we allow the handling of new laws to bypass the profession here in the sense that first of all it is necessary to take into account the expertise that identifies and helps us with some concrete research to prevent and reduce accidents on Slovenian roads, then it would apply here in this content to take into account the expertise in the field of transport or any other profession, but not to those who are engaged in only and only with advertising content, because it brings a lot of money and here it is often forgotten to ensure greater safety on Slovenian roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you. I see interest in the debate. I'm opening the application. Mr. Bevk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I have dealt with the issue of light pollution a great deal, and I therefore support this amendment that the placing of electronic displays on state roads is prohibited. We had already taken the initiative in 1997 in the National Assembly to adopt a regulation on the prevention of light pollution, and it was not until 2007 that this regulation saw the light of the world as a result of many lobbying. It has been evaluated recently also due to the needs of the stadium and I think that this regulation should be rewinded. About the timing. This is not true that the environment is more burdened by light, by light. Even if New Year’s Enlightenment is more pronounced, public enlightenment is turned off. And so this, I'd say, advent lighting is more environmentally friendly and light pollution. Otherwise, local communities could do more in this place. When I was mayor of the municipality of Idrija, in 1995 we adopted a decree banning jumbo posters. Following this pattern, the congregation of Cerkno was followed, and there are no jumbo - poster cities in these two congregations. The landscape is much more beautiful than being burdened with it. And one more thing. Political parties in these two municipalities have much less costs because they do not need to stick these billboards. I think we could follow the pattern elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I was also disturbed by the density of traffic signs on our roads. Not only because they have some light reflection but also because they are usually confusing, misleading, or some sort of alibi for what has not happened. It's quite a few cases. For example, if we drive from Ljubljana to Kranj, it is the end of all restrictions and over 100 meters is already the village of Medno. Yeah, well, what's the point of that "end of all limitations" thing, because we know what the sign for a settlement means, what's the speed and what's the ride? The next misleading reason is that it can be interpreted in two ways. For example, in front of the Jelen inn is the same, the end of all restrictions, and a number of drivers forget that it is still inside the "table" Ljubljana. And if you have to think for a long time about what's going on, then the driver is confused and as ordered for a misdemeanor. Further, when the south comes, the roads will blossom and, of course, the most beautiful, the cheapest solution is to set up signs of 'unordered bank' that we still have in stock from the previous century, because the same error has been repeated year after year and these banks will be regulated as enchanted, just as the tourist season begins, to create additional columns, because they will be asphalting machines on the road. With regard to billboards or large billboards, this is mainly the location. In some cases, you have to take almost half the car to the intersection to see if the intersection is transportable or not. And by the time you go on a bluff, you've already blackmailed someone and caused a dangerous situation. So it's not so much a number, it's also the location and content of this big panorama. If there are a few minutes of text on the pane, it will probably attract the driver's attention for a longer time than if the basic advertising, what I know, "let's go to the election campaign", a picture of the party's candidate, maybe a name and nothing else. And this can be understood by the driver with one look and not disturbed. But if it is, say, for an event, there are ten performers and the date and where the tickets are bought, the driver is reluctant to pay too much attention and put himself and other participants at risk. So maybe it would show us to take the road and try to make the mission impossible. To drive by what traffic signs command, which are placed somewhere so densely that they are barely readable, so, one part of the shadow to another. Perhaps it would be helpful to look at what is unnecessary and what is more misleading than to contribute to order and better information or to direct drivers to a safe ride.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 78 and the amendment to this Article refer to information and advertising on public roads. I must agree here with those who have a problem with this matter, for sure. I have discussed and asked several times the previous mandate how it is possible to even obtain permission to set up the mega-Romanian structures in the middle of the country, somewhere along the highway. We even have cases along the road that I drive on myself daily, that this jumbo, or what it's called, which is even bigger than a jumbo, but I don't know how much this is, I don't know, 15 times bigger, because I can't assess right now. This is a huge steel structure – as a former statistician and builder I know what it means around – which stands on some huge foundation, on some huge ground floor of the field. These are on our highways, the smaller ones, and on other state roads. I've already asked how someone gets permission to set up such a mega-Romanian structure in the first place. In my opinion, we should also think in this direction that some spatial legislation changes in this direction and that these belts, where permission is needed, what colleague Pečano said earlier is that these objects, I will say objects, not advertising panels, are already far away and because they are already hundreds of meters away, are abnormal sizes to see them hit our head. Here I agree with all of this, and we should also regulate spatial legislation and a rule setting out these lanes, where something can be put, where nothing can be put, because the layers are going outside these belts. So I think the whole problem needs to be solved. I believe that this new provision of Article 78, paragraph 4, is a premium. Since I am speaking again, I will ask again why the representatives of the Government do not give - because I know very well that they are in charge of this matter - why they do not give any explanation, what the Government or the Ministry thinks about this amendment, but also about the previous ones, so that we may get a second look at this problem as well as thinking about it. But apparently I'm begging for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you. Is there any other interest? I can see one hand. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u34	I don't want to be liquid, but I do. I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry what this fourth paragraph in the amendment actually means: "The placing of electronic displays on state roads is prohibited." O.K., but "light windows can be placed on state roads in a settlement outside a state road." I'm a layman, so I don't know what it means outside the car? Does this mean that the road is plus a few more meters, or is the vehicle what's 50 meters away because we know it's not a vehicle? That's the problem right there. I have seen that the Ministry has sent an answer, with which our Members have also been briefed, to a letter from the Dark Sky Society, where a number of cases have occurred, not only in light displays, but also in other types of advertising panels, for example, in Prekmurje there was a traffic accident where young passengers were killed, and it was formally the fault of the driver, but the death of passengers in the final stage caused a collision in the advertising pan. If there was no physical obstacle, we'd probably still be alive today. Or does it mean that this billboard, by not being illuminated, was not a light display, but was listed as a billboard, but it was right next to the road. And now, is this a ride or is it not a ride? And above all, are we going to avoid just hitting the lights, or are we going to withdraw the billboards in a safe distance from the roadside? Then, for example, there is the case in front of the village of Arclin, when in the darkness the driver is completely blinded. Or let's say an example in Slovenian Horses, where first there is a pan, not a jumbo, but a slightly smaller one, our children, our happiness, our concern and our happiness, and immediately behind it is one light pane that takes the driver away even from this original pan, the one that is well-intentioned. Then a whole bunch of commercials and traffic signs, including traffic lights. How much attention is the driver’s attention then focused on what he should actually pay attention to? For example, at Brezovica, there is a series of billboards along the state road, which are illuminated, not reflective, but enlightened. So they're doing double damage after all. And then, in a significant distance from the highway, there's an ad for mobile telephony, and at the same time, Dars will see to it that he warns: Who drives the car? – if you remember that panorama. I very much approve of him. He's a sandwich, he keeps his phone in his hand, he holds the wheel, I don't know, his dog might. And for example, in Ljubljana, a golf driver ran into an advertising pan at the Tržaška and Adriatic Road Cross on a completely dry road at a normal time, but there was a series of jumbo posters along the road. The question is whether these drivers were deconcentrated and simply seduced into one of these panels. Probably not because of hostile intentions, although the neighbouring panel was an election poster for one of the candidates for the mayor or mayor of Ljubljana. I think it is still necessary to make a decision and be a little more radical. The answer to the question as to what is the vehicle or what is outside the vehicle is, however, I would like to receive a reply from the representatives of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. In the review, you also have an amendment for a new 132.a Article, which the applicant withdraws. We have concluded our debate on the amendments tabled. We will decide on these amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a road traffic law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Since 1968, road safety has been regulated by two laws: the Road Traffic Safety Act of 1998 and the Road Traffic Safety Act of 2004, which is still in force. Both marriages have undergone many changes during these years. The Road Traffic Safety Act has been revised three times in four years. During the fifth amendment of the Road Safety Act 1, a decision was taken with the Ministry of the Interior to divide the Road Safety Act into four substantive separate laws, namely the Drivers Act, the Motor Vehicles Act, the Roads Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. The latter shall lay down traffic rules for road traffic and the powers and penalties imposed by the competent authorities in the implementation of the law. The main changes in road traffic rules are in particular the balancing of all sanctions for infringements of road traffic rules, the reduction of fines for offences which do not significantly affect road safety and the stricter sanctioning of drivers who are caught up in the commission of offences directly linked to the worst consequences of traffic accidents, the milder condition for the detention of drivers, the precise definition of the jurisdiction of the municipal authorities, the introduction of a new institute, namely the suspension of the termination of the driving licence, and the extension of the Interim Motor Vehicle Seizure Institute to other serious road traffic infringements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. This law was also discussed by the Committee at its 14th meeting on 1 December this year and also on this law, at the request of the Group of Members and Members, a general debate was requested, and this was also held by the National Assembly and concluded that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. In the opening presentation of the law, the secretary at the Ministry of Transport, Dr Igor Jakomin, said that the bill was intended to pursue a fundamental objective, namely to increase the safety of all road users. The main changes in road traffic rules are the balancing of all sanctions for infringements of road traffic rules. This reduces fines for offences which do not significantly affect road safety and lays down stricter penalties for drivers caught in the commission of offences directly linked to the worst consequences of traffic accidents. Furthermore, the proposed legal text lays down less favourable conditions for the detention of drivers, specifies the jurisdiction of the municipal authorities, introduces a new institution – that is, the suspension of the termination of the driving licence, provides for the extension of the Interim Motor Vehicle Seizure Institute to other serious road traffic violations and other arrangements to increase road safety. The Legislative and Legal Service gave an opinion as well as comments. Most of the comments were then also taken into account in the drafting of the amendments. With regard to comments that were not taken into account with the amendments, the Ministry of Transport explained, on the basis of extensive explanations, to the Legislative and Legal Service, which it later accepted as an interpretation which should be understood in particular as a complement to the explanation of the provisions of the individual proposed articles. The State Council has also dealt with and supported the law. Amendments were tabled by members Janez Ribič and Jakob Preseknik 5 amendments within the deadline, the SDS 4 amendments, the SD Group of Members, Zares, DeSUS and LDS have tabled 57 amendments. In the case of individual articles, some dilemmas can be raised in the examination of the laws, in particular in Article 93 of the Law, the representative of the Railway Association of Slovenia opened a debate on the need to allow two cyclists to drive side by side, as they consider that car drivers are more cautious in such cases. Well, the committee discussed this, but the solution proposed was not adopted later. However, there was also much debate by the representative of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, who said that the sections for offences committed by higher courts in Slovenia had proposed that the committee should adopt an amendment to a new article re-entering the provisions on causing a traffic accident as a qualified form of offence in the bill under consideration. The applicant pointed out that this provision had been deleted on the grounds that the proposed new law stressed the gravity of the offence itself and therefore raised certain sanctions, but not the consequences of an infringement of the traffic rule, such as a traffic accident. In addition, the representative of the Ministry of Transport pointed out that the provision on causing a traffic accident as a qualified offence had been deleted in the context of inter-departmental coordination and on the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on legislation. The Committee also proposed four amendments and, after considering the articles and adopting the amendments, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The amended proposal for a law is also being considered today by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you. Since the National Assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 21st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 December 2010. First, I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 93 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I see multiple hands and I'm opening the application. Mr. President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. This article discusses cycling and cycling routes and cycling. The SDS Group has tabled an amendment for the new first and second paragraphs, and personally I think it is true that I have now read it quickly, but above all others, I think that the original text adopted by the Committee is significantly better, and I do not see any reason why we should be so complicated in the first paragraph. Personally, I think that the solution in the Committee's proposal is better, simpler, so that I see no reason why this second paragraph should, at all, seem to me, without need and is a significantly better solution in this Committee's report. Thank you very much. But I would like to do it again, for the third time, that the representatives of the government would explain what they think about it, unless they decided not to comment on the amendments. Since I used to sit on those chairs myself, I am sure that the memory does not deceive me, that I have answered various questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Lah, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In the first paragraph, we want to describe some of the situations that are going to happen a little bit more broadly because the proposal states that they have to ride on a bicycle lane, on a cycling track or on a cycling track. Where not marked and not carried, however, the right edge of the steering wheel may be in the direction of the driving. Where there is a lane to turn left, however, no turning right is specified. With the amendment, we want to define more precisely where cyclists can ride in such a case. The second paragraph refers to Article 94, which refers to drivers or cyclists licensed. The committee discussed the fact that there are bikers who do not have a license but who ride by bicycles, which are almost like racing bicycles, on Slovenian roads about 30 000 and on license bikers significantly less. These are cyclists who are active cyclists in clubs. This Article 94 applies to training. Such bikers who drive 40 miles an hour on our roads are very large. And in this law or in these articles, they are not cared for. When we say that they must ride only on bicycle paths, we think mainly of bikers who ride 10 kilometers, 15 kilometers an hour. Those who drive 40 miles [40 km] an hour are safer on the road itself, more visible than on bicycle paths. If we take the example of howling a passenger car to the right when there is a parallel cycling track and there are some obstacles. How's he gonna notice the biker? If the biker rides in front of him on the road, he'll wait for him to pass. But if he's in a dead end and the biker rides 30, 40 kilometers an hour on the bike track, there's a good chance he won't notice it and there's gonna be a car accident. You probably see yourself in Ljubljana or wherever you drive, in cities, how you need to look out for bikers when you turn to the right. You can see on foot because it goes slowly, at three, four meters, a cyclist who drives at speed, say, 30, 40 kilometers per hour — because they rarely drive so fast and can also — but you have to notice 10, 15 meters before howling. This is difficult because it is usually a lot of obstacles, different tables, guidance tables or advertisements. Therefore, we believe that it is more appropriate for such bikers to ride on the right edge of the vehicle. You have also received suggestions or thoughts from other Western countries, which is also very important in the construction of cycling routes. Why would we build expensive bicycle paths separately, widths of meters and a half, two meters, when we could expand this road as a meter or mark a bicycle lane on the road and be significantly safer? We know how many bike paths we need to build in Slovenia, we should build them. For example, an example of cycling paths in Dolenjska, where the current fast road should be narrowed down and made a two-way cycling track. Imagine narrowing the 9m wide road by 2m, making a two-metre biking track or three-meter on the road, along a bench where the biker rides 50 km or more an hour into the valley and meets the biker on a wide, say, 3m, which barely drives into the hill. These bikers would need something else, not just a helmet on their head, because there could be an accident. It is essential that you ride the bikers on each side of the road, one in the hill, the other in the valley. In addition, there is no need to build a fence between the road and there is no need for any major construction work. That would be a significant price and increase security. With regard to cyclists in Article 94, it is also stated that at least two pairs, four or more, are to be driven in organised groups and that a red-lighted vehicle is to be accompanied. Then how are they supposed to go to road practice two people who can't drive parallel? He says, when you're changing at a pace, you have to drive a certain time parallel when one beats the other. And in this case, they're guilty. If they drive four or three, it's the same. We had an example, which was also in the media, of police punishing cyclists on the "Lithium Round", as they say, who have been driving for 30 years every Wednesday at four o'clock, and there was no problem. Now 27 of them have been punished for obstructing traffic, and not all of them, together with one penalty. We believe that we have to go so far in this law, and also cyclists who ride in groups without a license, whether they are former cyclists and those who do not have a club, are training on their own to drive and train on these roads. You're not taken care of in this marriage. By this amendment, paragraph 2 would allow these cyclists to ride on these roads and that they can also train those who do not have licences. We also think that the legislator or those who proposed the law could also consider that the law will be prepared so that these routes for cyclists in the future can be as safe and cost-effective as possible. By this law, if the designers plan cycling routes, they will be, as before, for those bikers who travel practically around the cities at a speed of 10 to 20 kilometres per hour with a basket when they go to the store or to work from home. Those cyclists who travel 50 miles [50 km] a day on the road are not cared for in this law. And that's what we want with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Jakomin, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Proposal 93 of the Act provides that bicycle drivers are to ride on a bicycle lane, a cycling track or a cycling track. Since these surfaces or those surfaces are untransportable, cyclists are allowed to drive at the right edge of the directional vehicle in the direction of driving. The 47th Article of that Regulation also defines the conditions and requirements for the construction of surfaces for cyclists. It is specified that specific areas for cyclists are not required on roads where the average annual traffic is up to 1,500 vehicles per day. On these roads, therefore, cyclists can ride at the right edge of the vehicle itself in the direction of driving. In the case of average daily traffic between 2,500 and 7,000 vehicles per day and in the case of cycling, more than 20 bikers per hour shall be marked with a biking belt drawn at the same height level as the vehicle. An average annual traffic of more than 7 000 500 vehicles per day and more than 20 bikers per hour is required for the average annual traffic of more than 7 000 vehicles per day and for cycling. It has also been determined that the cycling route is the surface of the highest level of services and runs independently of other road network intended exclusively for cyclists. For these two reasons, unfortunately, the proposed amendment cannot be supported. I would add one more thing: that in 2011 we will place the safety of bikers among the priorities, along with speed, alcohol, motorists and others. In addition, in the following year we will update the technical specifications for the design of cycling routes and cycling routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I don't know how I'm always the first one of us. [[Laugh]] But good. I have to say that I think and perhaps the ministry believes that the reasons are not to give such a detailed description of the possibilities of bikers to ride the road and bike lane and so on. I think it's a good amendment. I don't think there's anything wrong with supporting him. Let me make it clear that we are not deciding on amendments because of the applicants, but because of the content. And secondly, I think about what I specifically asked, which is what it says here in this article, that a biker must have during the ride in the dark, in the evening and night hours, a lamp in the front and a red light in the back, warning. However, when I ride a bicycle or when I drive a car, I often meet bikers who wear reflective vests, those vests that we have to have in the car drivers in case anything happens to us on the road and then we walk around the car by the road and we are safer to wear a vest than if we walk on a dark dress on the side of the road. The same goes for the biker. More and more bikers are wearing these vests on their own, especially bikers who drive recreationally. That's interesting. Although the biker who drives recreationally is more inclined over the wheel steering wheel, he may be less visible, yet the considerable surface still reflects. I do not think it would be bad if, in the third reading of this article, if the amendment was adopted, however, they also included the obligation of bikers to drive in a city or drive in the suburbs, or to drive for work and work, or because they are recreationd, to either wear a reflective vest or any other clothing that reflects in the light to ensure their own safety. I do not think that this provision would have aroused resistance especially for recreational bikers, because they are already making their own decisions. The cost of buying a reflective vest is very small. Those who have bicycle sports equipment, clothes, and those who buy equipment that has reflectors, at least I have that kind of equipment. So even now, I can say that in the dark not only because of the flashing light on my rear wheel, but also because of the reflective strips on my shirt, I am sufficiently visible in my other dimensions. And I think it would be useful to accept the amendment and then to complete it with this provision if colleagues and colleagues agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u48	Yes, I have discussed this amendment before, but first, I thank the Secretary of State for his explanation or for his opinion. I must say, I agree with him. This is certainly the right way to work, this discussion in one direction and another. As far as the amendment is concerned, I think the first part or the first paragraph is unnecessary. However, I do not agree, with all due respect, with my colleague Laho, with his explanation of this first paragraph. And I don't even agree with that if I understood exactly what he was saying. But with regard to paragraph 2, I must say that I do not understand him. If I understand it correctly, if it's written as I understand it, then I don't know what it means now, 'wheel drivers have to follow each other and if the width of the road makes it possible'. What? Or are they not allowed to drive? I don't know exactly what that means. I understand that I don't understand a lot of things, but I also say a lot of stupid things, but in this case I just don't understand it, because I think it's a saying, "wheel drivers have to ride each other, except on a bicycle path, where they should drive two parallels if the width of the road makes it possible." Is that a problem? But this second paragraph is completely incomprehensible to me, and as such I cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u50	I don't know how you don't understand this second paragraph. The point is that bikers can also ride on roads where there is no cycling track, two parallels if the road allows it. If the road is so narrow that the opposite of the vehicle cannot pass safely, then they will not drive. If it is wide, as the Secretary of State said, where there are not many motor vehicles, where there are less than 2 000 vehicles a day and the road is wide enough, why should a cyclist ride behind each other there because this law does not allow two vehicles to be parallel? The problem is that we do not solve this problem with Article 94, where it is possible to drive in groups or parallel two, only those with a license. These licensed bikers are very few in Slovenia. These are, of course, those who are active in our clubs, and those who are in foreign clubs and training at home. But we have 30,000 bikers on the roads who not only drive recreationally, I don't know, 20, 30 kilometers an hour, but practice. These cyclists shall not be allowed to ride two parallels unless they have more than two pairs in groups and have an escort in front or rear with a red light. Two cyclists who do not have a license should not go on the road and ride parallel because they must be more than four. So two shouldn't go to practice, there can be only one or three, there must be two couples, more than four. That's why we can't solve this. These bikers are getting more and more. Article 94 states only, "the riders with the license to prepare are trained for the competition". I don't think he has to write that. "The cycling association of Slovenia and relevant other international cycling organisations, for performances in organised cycling competitions, in the course of training." I don't think he has to write that. Because it doesn't matter whether the biker is a member of the club or preparing for some bike racing. The essence is a cyclist who rides so much and so much per hour, he must be able to train, even though he does not have a license. This law does not allow this to happen. We have top-notch cyclists who are in foreign clubs, who no longer have a contract, who no longer have a one-year license, and next year they will have a license and will compete in foreign clubs. How is this biker supposed to train at that time? He's got to get three more and an escort so he can train. How are bikers supposed to train on the bike paths, tell me who are mostly in the cities? They can't. We have them on Franjo's marathon, how many? Thousands of bikers who don't go to the store or work with their pants buckles. You're not being taken care of. As far as the programmes for the construction of these cycling routes are concerned, they must be a separate level. Let us look at the plan of development programs and money – when will we build for these bikers. We have bikers on the road thousands every day. We will never do that, but they must be taken care of until they are safely driven and driven in a lawful manner. Unless we all want to punish you. Even 40 or 30 years of driving each Wednesday after 30, 40 bikers had no problem, driving 30, 50, 60 kilometers. They had to be careful across the village so they wouldn't have to drive too fast so they wouldn't interfere with traffic. And then they raided like they were hunting a drug ring. And they punished everyone, I think with 170 Euros of fine. They laugh at our regulations and such conditions abroad. Those who ride on bicycles abroad say that they have come to some new knowledge because bikers are becoming more and more willing to make safe roads for these bikers and regulations so that they can drive safely and smoothly. That's why this amendment, maybe this paragraph is too short, but it makes it possible.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you. I see another hand. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u52	I must say, there is no way to support this amendment, especially the other point. But this is about talking about cycling routes. We're not talking about roads, we're not talking about training ranges, we're not talking about roads where someone's training. And as it is written, it is quite clear, 'wheel drivers must ride each other, except on a bicycle path,' – this is not just a road, but is a cycling path that is marked, which is arranged and so on – 'where it dares to drive two parallels if the width of the road makes it possible'. That's perfectly clear. Compared to what the amendment states: "Vehicle drivers must follow each other unless they interfere with other traffic and if the width of the road allows it." There's no other way. There's no other way. There is no other traffic along cycling routes than bicycle traffic. Who else was supposed to be in the way? I firmly believe that Article 94 provides for those who train who have licences and so on. And those foreign cyclists -- we both know these things -- these people don't train in groups, they train individually and they drive, they do drive faster than ordinary cyclists and they drive everywhere, from cycling routes to roads where it's allowed, side roads and so on. However, here I would like to understand this arrangement in a way that applies both to cyclists and other participants in the traffic some order which is specifically prescribed for those who are participants, once we are pedestrians, secondly cyclists, thirdly motorists, fourthly motorists and so on. And in this case, it's true, we were eventually in the middle of Ljubljana a year ago or less ago a fatal victim of a biker behind Bežigrad at a gas station, and I don't know which one of the AMCs against the bypass, where it came on the bike track to obvious overrun, harassment and so on, and there's one, I don't know what was the cause, who kicked someone or whatever, but the biker, I think even the journalist, died there in broad daylight, honey, I'll say, a crowd of people. And that's exactly what it says here that you have to follow each other along these paths, and so on and so forth, and not get ahead of yourself. Because, of course, how are you going to control this, "unless they interfere with other traffic"? How is this to be determined? Who's gonna judge that? Only after they have identified the consequences of any accidents will they determine who obstructed them and so on. Prescribing how to drive without obstacles is probably the only way to drive each other. If, for example, the cycling route is several meters wide, then, of course, you can take a parallel one. There's no doubt about that. And I really would not, in this case, mix roads and remote routes with cycling routes, as this second point in Article 93 should regulate. Programme for the construction of bike paths in Slovenia. I think the Ministry of Transport has it. Even when it comes to drawing on European funds and similar matters, the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government has a major agenda, with great emphasis. Even if you go to Slovenia, there are many areas where cycling paths are already well established, they are built and used. And there are other plans, at least I know a lot of them, especially around tourist destinations. For example, yesterday I was in the area around Rogaška, where tourist centers are located and where people drive more. But again, one thing is what we are as bikers, as recreationals, as those who drive to work or for recreation, whatever, and the other is those who have licenses, and it seems to me that it is regulated in Article 94. Individuals who do not have a license and are professionals, but usually do not drive in groups, do not drive in the way explained here. And I think if the first point is somehow better explained that the second point in this amendment is actually working the regulation more vaguely and less effective for eventual control.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u54	Mr Anderlič, it does not say 'college road', because remote cycling routes also run along regional state roads, but it is called 'a remote cycling route', and it is not built. These cyclists ride on state roads, in the second or third order. It's a road. Or we understand as a "polish" path, it can also be a Polish path. The bikers are driving. But what I mean is that this is in connection with Article 94, which states in paragraph 1, that it is true for certain cyclists, who are very few. But there are a lot of bikers on the road who can drive at the same speed in groups, or as good bikers as those written in this first paragraph. The first paragraph also states that they must not drive parallel at night. These bikers never drive at night, every ride ends before it's dark. I've never seen a cyclist with a license with a front and back lights. Everybody wears helmets. You know exactly when to finish training. I think that this Article 94 needs to be substantially amended by the third reading or that something else should be added to our second paragraph of Article 93 to make things more clear. I am talking about the need for these bikers to be able to drive in one way or another. Either in Article 94, correct paragraph 1 or supplement this amendment. In this second reading, I think that we could support this amendment, and by the third reading, the bill-maker would have tried to resolve this issue, because we have just received a comment from such bikers that their driving is not resolved in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Anderlich spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u56	I really don't want to see anyone think that these professional or wheeled drivers are treated differently than they have been before. I think that's right. But the fact that recreationals are treated in the same way as you do with licenses and professionals, I think it would be too much. And that's why all these things have to be governed by general rules, because today I'm a biker, tomorrow you are, tomorrow's is a third and so on, just like any of these things happen in life. Article 94 cannot be corrected at all in the third reading, since it is closed if I understand exactly what we have received from this examination or from the report we have received. That's why I don't know, I can't support this amendment, although I'd probably be number one without two if it were fixed. For as the basic text is written, it seems to me that it has hit what is essential. They have to drive each other. As I said before, I don't know if that case happened because there were two of them on that trail. And you know what the biggest problem is? The way they drive is when they talk, and they fantasize, and they miss out on a lot of things. That's the problem with bikers. Even when you walk through the walkway, you will see how interesting situations are when bikers come along with pedestrians or a car in intersections and so on, where these paths are arranged and so on. To that end, I firmly believe that this must be arranged in a way that they must follow each other — because I do not know how to judge this — unless they interfere with another, for they must not hinder it. In no case shall they interfere with the other. If I understand point one as being able to support it, number two is not close to me and I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. Anyone else on this article? Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u58	I must say, in principle, I agree with my colleague Anderlich. However, if we want this article, which speaks of general cyclists and not those who are specialists, then it would be appropriate to accept the amendment to be corrected in the third reading by deleting this amendment from paragraph 2 of this Article, in order to supplement paragraph 9 with my proposal, if possible. I think that we could agree that once for a change together we would table such an amendment in the third reading to add in paragraph 9 that cyclists should spend the night except for the reflective light – here I have to say that cyclists who have bicycle shoes and pedals on locks, as far as I know, have no reflections on pedals. Here is the obligation to have a mirror on pedals, which is questionable. I need to see if there are mirrors on my son's bike on these pedals or not. So this is where we made one mistake again or the manufacturer has to do something. I think it is more important that the body of the cyclist is well visible and that the red light, the bright light, and the reflective light and the light in front of us, although, frankly between us, these front lights are not bright and you see just one thing better because of this, is that when you drive on a very dark road in the middle of the night, that light doesn't show enough and it's better to step off the bike and walk. But, well, it's just by the way. So that I, not because I think this is an ideal amendment, but because we open our way and complete our third reading with a proposal if you agree to commit bikers to transport them more safely with reflective vests or reflectors on their clothes. There is nothing wrong with this option, both of which are possible and thus provide greater safety for bikers. By the way, when a biker rides Ljubljana, it is true that we have a bunch of lunatics among bikers, but we also have lunatics among drivers. I personally experienced being hit by a driver who had an open right turn from Celovska to Tivolska, and I had a green light for bikers and then for walking across Celovska. And he flattened me on it and disappeared. So, we have drivers like that in Ljubljana, so there's a lot to say about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We then turn to the debate on Article 103 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can't see the deadlines. [[Nobody.]] Closing the debate and moving on to the debate [[...]] Mr. Brultz, it's okay. Please, we're going back to paragraph 103.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u60	I'm really sorry, but there's only one warning I'd like to give you if that warning applies. The 27th and 98th paragraphs are in conflict or in the middle of a 6-month gap that would cause problems for the school. It is the case that Article 97 states that the acts laid down in this Act shall be issued no later than 6 months, and Article 98 states that, as from the date of the application of this Act, the Road Safety Act shall cease to apply. If it is true that it is here for 6 months of empty space, it can be caused – you will look for a third reading. I have one more question. This is Article 36, which refers to the validity of the licence for driving teachers and so on. There is a fourth point in this article, which says, "if he has more than 5 criminal points, he is disbarred" etc. This fourth point is proposed by the Auto Schools in order to delete or then apply to members of exam committees, traffic inspectors and others. This is a very severe sanction, says 5 penalty points and loses teaching ability at a school. I apologize for the delay, but now I've been warned. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Jakomin, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much, but what you just mentioned concerns the following law, the Drivers Act. This is not the law we are currently considering.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you. I am opening the debate on Article 114 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u64	With this amendment, we just want to eliminate the sentence of Article 32, so that it does not apply until 1 July 2012, because we believe that the current penalties are quite high. Let us wait to see what effect these penalties will have and only then, with effect from 1 July 2013, will Article 32 enter into force.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you. Anyone else? Yeah. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I personally support this amendment to Article 114 in order to supplement the text, with the exception of the provisions of Article 32 applicable until 1 July 2013. In the explanatory memorandum, they reasoned on why. But I would also like to add to this explanation from my point of view. The main thing is to look at the matter in connection with Articles 45, 46, 47, 48, which talk about speed limits. Why? In Slovenia, the practice in recent years is that, under what I know, the desire to reduce traffic accidents, after a small number of deaths, is only to increase fines and sanctions, which are in some ways the simplest way, but not to think about the side effects, the consequences that I would also like to mention on this occasion. See, there are also a number of other alternative measures, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, which could possibly achieve the same effects, the same results with less negative consequences, which result in such a drastic increase in fines. I wonder if the applicant may have thought in this direction to do some comparative studies, what analyses, not only alternative measures, but also comparative analyses of the situation abroad. Because I can't believe the difference. A comparison, for example, of the income capacity of the average Slovenian with an average foreigner, for example, in Austria, Italy or Switzerland, does not withstand the heights of fines we have in Slovenia. According to some estimates, these are three to seven times higher than abroad. Let me give you a practical example, say, for speeding from 10 to 20 kilometers in the village. You pay 21 euros in Austria. With us, it seems to me that Article 46 sets at EUR 100. But it's just one case. There are even more drastic differences. And what is it that I want to express my view of this amendment in the first place? These are the social consequences. Look, the proponent, I guess, hasn't done any analysis of what the current situation is after the last increase in fines for such offences. I fear that in the near future, there will be a narrow throat in the judges for offences when they cannot process all these proceedings, these penalties, and that it will happen as the previous government did when it had to resort to the abolition of such cases. Many of the social hardships in families are due, among other things, to excessive fines. You can imagine a family receiving a few hundred euros a month, and it happens that a family member - a driver is once punished with a thousand, a thousand, 200 euros for a crime that can happen to any mortal, to exceed the speed of thirty kilometers where signs are allowed, say, in a village of fifty or sixty. I mean, who are the victims of this crime, then? Basically, these are kids who don't have money for lunch at school, who don't have money for any vacations, or clothes, or just because of one foolish move of a father or a mother that can happen to any of us. That is why I would suggest to the proposaler that he thinks hard about the heights and makes analyses of the current situation and submits this in the third reading, so that we can then make a rational decision, it makes sense to increase the fines indefinitely, but not to use any other alternative measures to prevent such violations. So much for this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jakomin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much. A survey on road traffic safety, entitled Road Safety Factors in Slovenia, carried out by the Institute of Criminal Sciences at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, showed that speed still represents the largest proportion of the main causes of fatal traffic accidents. Continued application of Article 32 of the Road Safety Act. Since fines are set to exceed the permitted speeds, they would constitute a lack of consistency between the entire proposed system and the imbalance in the proposed fines on the Proposal for a Law on Road Traffic Rules. In doing so, I would point out that we should all be aware that the relationship between preventive and repressive measures in Slovenia is more beneficial to prevention than to repressive measures, which can also be seen on the websites of both the Transport Safety Agency and on the websites of the Ministry of Transport. For these reasons, we cannot support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u70	I must say, I find the amendment unusual. In fact, I have looked at what is Article 32, which is intended to extend its validity until 1 July 2013 – here is the risk that those Articles 32 of the ZVCP, which do not apply at all to the area of the Road Traffic Rules Act, would be unusual to extend its validity altogether for the whole of Article 32, as this also prolongs the validity of Article 32 of the ZVCP in its entirety, because it does not refer to the fact that the individual provisions of Article 32 are to be extended, but to extend the whole Article 32 of Article 32 of the ZVCP, which concerns the remaining three laws, is to say that in fact there will be a discrepancy between the two or three laws, since we will also be in this law with the amendment of the SDS to extend the validity of Article 32. In particular, I say that, for instance, the third paragraph of Article 32 does not change or repeal this law, but is likely to be abolished by one of these four laws. It seems to me that this is also strange under the legislative rules and, in my opinion, incorrect, but I would also like to say that, for example, this amendment also prolongs the validity of Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5 and 6 and so on. Only paragraph 6 begins to talk about penalties, only paragraph 6 of Article 32 of the ZVCP begins to talk about penalties. So we're just prolonging something by not even knowing why. But the explanation is only about punishment. Let us be so consistent that we say the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh paragraph, which speaks of penalties, should be extended until, if we speak purely technically, I am not talking so much about content right now. I think the amendment is bad. And that is why I cannot vote for such an amendment, because here you will have to correct what you have prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else? No, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a driver's license. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We have before us a second consideration of the Proposal for a Drivers Act, which focuses in substance on the training and training of road users, candidates and drivers, the resocialisation of traffic violators, and the renewal of sectoral health checks. The Drivers Act brings quite a few novelties that are more friendly for citizens. The theoretical training in driving schools decreases from the current 40 hours to 20 hours, reducing the conditions for training for the driver under the accompanying driving programme. It shall be possible to delete the penalty points for persons participating in a safe driving training programme or one of the rehabilitation programmes. The theoretical and practical test at the driving school shall be carried out and the staffing and material conditions for the establishment of driving schools shall be reduced. Health checks should also be mentioned by consulting a personal physician who is intended for drivers who drive under the influence of alcohol and so-called rehabilitation programmes intended for holders of valid driving licences who have been issued with penalty points and sent to the programme by the court and present a novelty in our area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Jank Webr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you. The Transport Committee considered this law on 1 December this year. This law has also been requested to have a general discussion. Following the determination of the National Assembly or the adoption of the decision that it was appropriate for further consideration, the procedure continued by holding a second hearing on the Committee. And the Secretary of State, Dr Igor Jakomin, said that with the current, although encouraging, results in road safety, we cannot be entirely satisfied. The proposed law therefore focuses primarily on the training and training of road users and drivers, focusing on the interaction of road users, on awareness of the risks involved in transport and on the dangers of transport situations. The legal and legal service has also looked at only the text of the law in detail. Many of her comments are taken into account in the amendments. Otherwise, the Council of State also dealt with and supported this law. However, there was a debate everywhere that transport education should be systematically included in both primary and secondary education programmes. And in the amendments that we have considered, which have been tabled by Mr Janez Ribič and Mr Jakob Presečnik 8, by the SDS Group 4 and by the coalition parliamentary groups 68 and 10 by the Committee on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of Transport, in fact, many words have been meant for the new legislation in the field of transport instead of focusing on increased repression, which is intended to ensure greater security, to give greater attention to education and education for safe participation in transport, i.e. to greater emphasis on preventive measures and to reduce repression. The amendments that were tabled also raised the issue of providing pre-school education, i.e. providing road transport education programmes in pre-school education, primary schools and secondary education. On the basis of this debate, however, it was also explained by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport that changes in school programmes could only be addressed and incorporated into the laws which were intended to do so, rather than trying to resolve it specifically in this law, i.e. in the Proposal for a Drivers Act. Therefore, the adoption of amendments, which would somehow indicate that the Ministry of Education and Sport has failed to include road transport education in its programmes. Of course, many amendments were adopted by the committee. On the basis of the amendments adopted, the Committee drafted the text of the law, which it also voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them, so that the text drafted today is also submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 21st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 December this year. We therefore turn to Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have once again tabled an amendment to Article 5 to the Proposal for a Drivers Act, adding a new first paragraph, which reads: "Training and education with safe participation in road transport is provided in pre-school education programmes and primary and secondary education programmes. More detailed criteria and method shall be laid down by the Minister responsible for education and sport." Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall become paragraphs 2 and 3. Maybe an explanation. With amendments, we propose that education and education for safe road transport be provided in pre-school education programmes and primary and secondary education programmes. They're doing it today! Learning about safe transport must start in the youngest children's years. More detailed criteria and means of determining the Minister responsible for education and sport. Transport security and awareness and competence can preserve a wide range of lives and, therefore, the definition of these content for inclusion in the educational system is also permissible by this law. The new transport legislation is aimed at increasing the depression that seeks to ensure greater safety in transport, and the country must therefore give greater importance and attention to education and education, i.e. preventive measures and actions. The amendment is being tabled at the initiative of the community and the municipal municipality of Celje because they oppose the way proposed to leave education and education to civil society and organisations. While the Minister may and must include them in the process of education and education, the responsibility and systemic education for safe road transport should be ensured at the level of the State for all citizens equally. We also maintain the provisions in the present first and second paragraphs, which become paragraphs 2 and 3, so that the public agency can also train and educate adult participants in transport. It is always necessary to train and educate all actors in transport and to inform them of the new rules and opportunities for safe transport participation after they leave the regular education programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! I will proceed to the amendment proposal by Article 5. To begin with, I don't support this amendment. Now I'm going to explain why I don't support it. We have recently experienced that the environment is often included in any form in the field of school field regulation, in a way that they want to regulate in other laws the things that are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Sport. I do not deny that road safety prevention is essential for responsible road traffic behaviour. But you need to know how this can be involved. It cannot be included in the way that the law for which the Ministry of Transport is responsible by the Department of Transport requires the Ministry of Education to regulate matters for which policy is not responsible. Excuse me. Subjects, school programs, curriculums, selection content are in the school field domain. For this purpose, there are specific expert bodies which assess whose educational content is to go to school, including the General Education Council or the Professional Education Board, which determine which content the subjects are subject to the school curriculum. It is therefore impossible to follow the proposed amendment in this law in this way, because the content related to education for responsible and safe road transport is already subject to school content and not subject to a specific subject. Indeed, experience in education shows that the effects, when some content has become a special subject, have been worse than if the individual contents are part of different subjects and part of different inter-subject links. These things are included in school programmes, including all other civil society and public institutions, and are actively involved in road transport. For example, I know about the Maribor puppet theatre, which has specially designed puppet games for road transport. I am talking about a number of NGOs that, within the framework of the programme content offered by the Institute of Education as a special catalogue of educational content, also appear. After all, we have decided that we will give NGOs the opportunity to prepare in a slightly more unconventional way those things that are essential to the life of our society. I do not think it shows that it is a triangle: a school-company-parent, and in this triangle there must be an interaction between all those responsible for ensuring that children are safe and that they will develop into responsible road users. Therefore, I think it is necessary to listen to the fact that the school field, as far as school curricula are concerned, is autonomous and that it is not possible to interfere with a single law in the law governing the system of school affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I've seen more candidates for the debate, so I'm opening time and I'm asking you to apply. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment. I think it makes sense, after all, it's the school that basically educates children. In order to teach children traffic education in kindergarten, road traffic regulations are a little funny, since children are 6 years old, and mostly 5 years or 4 years old. Maybe we'd start at 3 and we'd show them what a stick up and a stick of rope means, and maybe a stick on their head to make them understand better. Also, when a colleague mentioned puppet games where traffic regulations are supposed to be taught, I think it's a little funny. Puppet games go to the Ministry of the Interior with those preventive actions that require huge funds, but do not bring any full benefits, except for the benefits for some pockets that naturally thicken and fill. And some laugh at this account at the stupidity of the Slovenians, who allow it, and at the same time applaud the ruling coalition, which is leading the matter forward and further. I think it makes sense to bring this into school. We used to have traffic laws in schools, and we knew more about road traffic regulations, and we applied them more. To deal with this now with various non-governmental organisations, it may be in the sense of "determined" NGOs funded by the Government and the ruling coalition. Again, we are going to have to fill some pots, some sort of money that gentlemen will be happy to draw and spend 100,000, 200 000, there half a million euros. The money's going to disappear, the money's gone anyway. Nobody's going to control it. And if they give the right percentages to certain ones, those who have allowed them all together will continue to do so. Children won't be educated, they won't know anything about traffic regulations, they'll be playing what dolls they're going to pull, and they'll be drawing maybe on the ground or something. If we're going to seriously set things up, we have to put this in school. Schools have a specific programme consisting of compulsory instruction and afternoon classes that can be named in one way or another. There could be loads there, no special experts are needed, because I don't know what kind of crazy experts they have to be to explain to a child in the first, second, third and fourth classes about road traffic rules, because that's what a teacher can do. When we look at the employment of teachers and teachers, one wonders how it is possible for someone who has been studying in the fourth grade of primary school for 20 years to spend three months a year preparing for the next year to re-learn the same things in the fourth grade of primary school. Therefore, it can be determined at each school or in any department, whether it is a teacher or a teacher, who takes over the matter or is charged with it. For example, they have arranged in France, so they have it in Germany, and it is true that they do not steal state money there as much as we do.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u81	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u82	This amendment is extremely well-intentioned and in concern for more knowledge, for more education and so on, but I believe that school curricula and preschool curricula are not without these content, on the contrary, and even in one of the debates I have now heard that this is the case. That's why I don't believe this is the way to write it. But I will support him, because I would like this amended article on the committee to change closer, back to who it was. I cannot understand that you have been writing down to those who worked on the committee on this article, and even if this is on a proposal from the Government or the departmental ministry or any services, it seems to me that it is not in place. I mean, what did you write here? Here you have written that the public agency can also provide training and education in road safety, road transport, car liability insurance and all kinds of things. But the public agency can't do that. This is not because of what you wrote in the following articles, that you will choose organisations that are qualified to do so with concessions and various other procedures, and you will give them the authority to do so. So it can happen that, instead of giving authority to organizations that are qualified to do so, you will do these things yourself. But that's not going to work. I think it's even controversial, and it would make sense for the Legal and Legislative Service to check what was actually written down. Because if you look at the original Article 5, you'll see that this content is completely different. And it says: "Raising and education for safe participation in road transport. The content of road safety education shall be carried out by civil society and organisations engaged in preventive activities in the field of road safety, in particular in cooperation with public-educational institutions." This is, in my opinion, a text covering the content that you also want to define in subtitle 5 of Article 5. However, the fact that you will carry out insurance, car liability to carry out insurance for vehicles, drivers and other things does not belong to this part. I understand that we are establishing a public agency and we are modifying this law or adopting it to regulate how this whole thing is regulated in the field of driver law. Things should be clarified. I believe it wasn't meant to be an agency now, even if you wrote "may," that is a question at all. If it says that it can do so, on the other hand, you say it will be carried out by someone else, and you have arranged, for example, in Article 8, a public agency, on the basis of public authority, to carry out the following tasks: issuing a decision, selecting and authorising organisations to perform tasks in the field of drivers and vehicles, and professional supervision of their work. So if they do this on their own, it's a conflict of interest, if the agency can do it, because that's not going to work. I really want to explain how this has been brought into this article, because the original article seems to me to be traveling. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's right, because it's written very clearly what it's supposed to be. Therefore, I am inclined to support this amendment, so that we can at least get back to what was the basic purpose of regulating these issues in this law. Otherwise, I'm not ready to support the law, where I'm going to be so insecure about what you actually want to fix here. Do you want to arrange, as you say, all this content where this public agency will be? That is why I have also understood the integration of certain services of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Transport, and another ministry in this agency, in order to define the content, the way in which the tasks are carried out, and also the powers to issue and control, but not to carry out these activities in the way they now say. After all, this amended article could be understood that, even through this article, you want to transfer to the Agency some of the content discussed by your colleague Potrate. So you're going to educate, you're going to train, but you're going to educate in other institutions, and that's probably why they have some certificates. It is not only the school system, and so on, but it is likely that these are the autocultues and various others who have the power under certain laws to do so and have the right to do so in accordance with the permits obtained.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you. In my opinion, too, the current organisation in kindergartens and also in primary schools is properly regulated because it involves them through these activities, which are carried out by children in a wide variety of actions, in order to somehow introduce them as future drivers on the market. And the deviations from this would probably not be desirable if we could say so, but perhaps even happen to have even a smaller effect than we already have today, which certainly must not be a wish or somehow a proposal of this law. With regard to the other content that we have also discussed on the committee, whether to resolve it through this law or not, I think it has really been very clear that this cannot be resolved in this driver law. However, this question raised by colleague Anderlich is being raised whether we would not really return to the level that is in place today. In fact, this Article 5 gives the public agency to carry out this education and, of course, it will be necessary to provide funds for this. Participants participating in these trainings at the public agency will also have to provide these funds. And I suppose, let's say that if someone from kindergarten wants to come to the training or to an organised road safety presentation, then the kindergarten will probably have to collect money from their parents and then arrange it somewhere in this agency's premises. Then there's something similar about primary school. What can be under-regulated today is, in my opinion, exactly this period when someone finishes primary school and before taking the driving test. These are two, three years, for example, when we probably don't deal with kids in high school especially on road safety. All responsibility or much greater responsibility is at that point in time on the part of the parents. I think it would be valid here to ask whether certain activities could still be continued through the current system, even until someone approaches or decides to take a driving test. And if there was an agreement to actually leave the door open by adopting this amendment, then it would be very wise to clear this text to the third reading in order to preserve what we have. If it is possible to complement what we have for primary schools, even for a few more years, two secondary education courses would probably be even more appropriate, but I certainly think that it is necessary to take into account the fact that it is not exactly a case that we are causing additional costs to parents for whether their child will attend a safe driving training course or not. It is more appropriate to deal with this in the current form in these educational institutions or educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Of course, there is education and education for safe participation in road transport. It is an extremely important activity, which, I must say, runs well in primary schools, and let us not interfere where things work, let us not make fun of individual stages of development, even puppet games are absolutely necessary at some stage of development. Children at a lower stage of development are raised with games, dramatization and so on, that we will not be smart here now. You know, for health, education and football, we're all exceptional experts. In primary schools they perform cycling exams, learn to get in and out of the bus and so on. And that remains and there is no need for any additional burden. However, I must say that when we are talking about education and education, it is a special and very responsible part of this law, even in the part that talks about auto schools. And here we should probably take an extraordinary step forward, because if we don't train that we need to be smart and sober when we're sitting behind the wheel, because every vehicle is actually a road bomb if it's not managed as it should be. However, it is precisely in applying who can teach at a school that unequal matters are identified. Article 35, paragraph 4, states that this can only be those who do not have more than 5 criminal points. 5 penalty points in a private driving driver's school or a teacher at a school can get very quickly, and this is cruel. This applies to instructors, this does not apply to road traffic inspectors and so on. Therefore, I propose for third reading that this fourth point be deleted in Article 35 or that another service be included in this obligation, which is linked to safe driving and teaching safe driving, as well as in the preparation of examinations and more. I will not support this amendment, which we are now talking about, to Article 5, because I think things are going well and, as already mentioned, things are not necessarily changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 5? Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. If we have heard that the subject is already in the school programme on road transport education, then I see no reason why this area could not be included in this bill. Local communities that need to organise prevention and road-based education councils also include schools. And today we all see how well this is organised in primary schools, and I don't know if this amendment is proposed by someone from the opposition, so that they won't accept it just for that. I think that it is necessary to make an effort, as Mr Anderlich said, to change something in this amendment and also accept it, and that this should remain in this proposal of the law. There will be no harm in educating young people and including them, for in the end each life counts on protecting them with a good education in schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I see he wants to discuss you more, so I'll give him time to report. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u90	There may be further information on this subject on the proposal I made to the Transport Committee when we discussed this issue. The proposal was such that representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Transport and representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia actually meet and that they are trying to reach solutions that would be acceptable, in particular to maintain the current quality of training for safe road transport participation, and perhaps then a new idea is also crystallized. Of course, I do not specifically have information on how this conversation has been conducted, whether any agreement has actually been reached, but it seemed reasonable to me that this process does not stand still and that we are actually working in this area when we are dealing with young people, as much as possible in training on safe driving in transport, and I hope that this agreement will also lead to better solutions than I have today. I think it would be worth really reconsidering whether this provision, which we have in this amended bill, is indeed that new quality, or perhaps even diminishing that security. I mean, this issue is currently open, but if we had any more concrete solution, this article would probably be valid to leave open. Of course, for now we do not have this information, whether it was actually done or not, as I said, on this initiative on the Transport Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I understand those who think it would be good to ensure that the article is open, but we have not heard any assurance as to what will then be the solution in the third reading and whether this will not be done at this meeting, given that the number of amendments tabled is very small. That's how I don't change my original point of view. However, I would like to point out that the history of integration of transport education into the school system has been long, that when transport education was a special subject in primary school, the effects were not expected and that other ways have been introduced as a result. If someone goes to look at the primary school law, if someone goes to look at other provisions, they'll see that some of the elements of everything we're talking about are involved anyway. But now it is unacceptable for me to request, and in this article of the Drivers Act, something to write and impose specifically on the Ministry of Education, because the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Transport have reached an agreement in the preparation of the law that solutions such as those promoted by local communities or associations of local communities are not acceptable in this law. However, the greatest effect is always when the individual content for responsible behaviour in society is part of all inter-subject links and serious treatment in any subject. In particular, I could tell you in Slovenian language and literature how much it is possible to talk about these things, where they all appear. So to say it's not, it's impossible. That I am not talking about what my colleague, Brulc, mentioned after the fifth grade of elementary school, was talking about. And he has experience with these things. And I'd like to see that teachers get a lot of confidence on some other occasion to do their job well. But the methods, the ways, the possibilities, how all of this goes into our lives have changed a lot and new opportunities are open. Not to mention, the best education is by example. Here parents, schools and society as a whole have extraordinary, extraordinary opportunities and responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think the proposal made by colleague Weber is the one. However, for the time being, it cannot be incorporated into this law, because it has not been an occasion for the ministries that have agreed and found some agreement to do so, to agree that everything, as they have written, is the best. In fact, it is a very bad solution, and this amendment at least corrects it to some extent. But later, perhaps, something else can be added, for example, in the third reading, if this amendment is adopted, although I doubt, given that the coalition is plowing long and hard and does not ask left and right. Sometimes when we went to school for this, there were effects. We knew because we knew what was right and wrong. I think it's much worse now. It is true, however, that there was no profit at the time in training traffic, but there was some enthusiasm, a desire for children to be safe, a desire for traffic to be regulated, and similar matters. That's not what today is. Today it's all about money, and a lot of people want to "join" these state tentacles. After all, we have heard, because we are always listening to what will be done in this traffic, that it will be better to make it safer. What's security? It's nothing from safety! It's called "kill speed." One of the stupidest passwords is " haste kills." It kills obstinacy, not speed! If you were to kill speed, all the contestants of formula one should have been dead by now. It kills vanity. However, no one will prevent publicity by law, but they will prevent it from being properly educated. And if education is in line with the fact that it's part of school, then that's fine. If this is done by a variety of private, semi - private, or related companies, it will certainly not solve anything. Even different cyclists with licenses will not solve this and that in the fifth grade, someone has to pass a cyclist exam. Please! What if he doesn't pass the exam, or falls into the fifth grade of elementary school, and he has to repeat it, or how? That's bullshit if we're talking about speed. At the beginning, when Mrs Katarina Kresal is said to be different today, I think they call her "Kokaina Kresal", if the Minister had followed the words she gave when she said that there would be no speed limits on highways on certain segments, that would be significantly smarter – certain segments that are open to transport and safe. But no, they won't relax there, but they'd rather set up cops who'll be charging the state budget, because that's where they'll be waiting for those who go 10 or 20 kilometers too fast. But where there are dangerous sections, on some curves, you won't find them. I don't know what we're doing! We're going to the Larpurlartism to do something just to show off. In fact, everything turns around on some proclamations on TV: we already have 50% fewer deaths. What nonsense! Count it a little bit, make a comparison, and you'll see that it's not, I don't know, what are the essential differences. And one more thing. The fact that speed reductions generally reduce the number of deaths is common nonsense. We are already in traffic in some of the segmented restrictions England had toward the end of the 19th century.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u95	Mr Jelinčič, I would warn you that it has nothing to do with Article 5, but it is really related to the law and it is possible to say everything about it. And that's what you're doing. You'll have to limit yourself a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u96	It's true, Mr. President, I'm a little carried away. I'll cut it short. Once again, I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Tone Anderlich has also called.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u98	I must say that the more a person reads this law in detail and in particular is significantly less systematic and less transparent than the original text. In Article 4, you have a defined public transport safety agency, in Article 5, you have training and education, and all of a sudden, you insert into this article a public agency that will do certain things, and you only divide it under Article 8. And if you look at why you went to Article 5 in the bill, then it is very clear that empirical analysis has shown certain shortcomings in the school training regarding the creation of suitable attitudes towards transport safety in the candidates and so on. And when you look at what you wanted to achieve with Article 5 and what is now in the amended proposal, it has nothing to do with it. Here you will give the agency, which is not set up under Article 5, the status and tasks of this agency, and then you will give the agency a possibility, a quasi-task that does not belong to the agency, does not judge the public transport safety agency by any chance, and the conditioner is that "it is also possible to carry out road safety training and education in road transport, road transport, car liability insurance, vehicles, drivers, road infrastructure safety", imagine road infrastructure security being reviewed by road inspectors and others, this agency will not do it because you have these inspections defined elsewhere, who will do it, and organise education, training and so on. In other articles, however, you have the power or determination of who will perform this and how the possibility of implementation will come through the award of concessions if it fulfils the conditions and so on. And if you look at the original article, it would be possible here — if the amendment were to come closer and make a revision of the amendment towards the approximation of the basic regulation in Article 5 as it is here in law — to make a difference. Otherwise, you missed the title of the article. You're not talking about training, you're talking about what a public agency can do. It's something else. That is why I really believe that, I don't know, Mr Weber, who is the chairman of this committee, will once again sit down. I also expect an answer to what you meant by that, if you accidentally suggested that the committee write it down and change your text, then not only would you be surprised, but even disappointed at what it actually wanted to do here. If it is in Article 5, as I say, I have read it several times, and when I read the reasons why you even subtitled it. Your agency is divided into other articles. You have subtitled training and education for safe participation in road transport and said nicely who can do it in what way. And it is right that where these content is limping, but obviously here you did not think that this provision means the first step forward and opens the door or allows the participation of public educational institutions in the field of preschool, primary school, and I do not know what, with organisations involved in preventive activities and so on. They're probably high schools, safe driving ranges in Vransk and elsewhere, and so on. This is what I can imagine under what you wrote down. You probably had in mind safety training in transport, not defining the Agency's tasks in this article. I would like to think that, together with the Chairman of the Committee, it might be possible that we would not be afraid to accept an amendment and that in the third reading we would not be able to arrange it properly, to take a look at it and to correct the amendment, because I think we have about all the same will in what we have to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakomin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you. On the basis of the expert study and the arguments presented, we agree that transport education must be systematically included in primary and secondary education programmes. We therefore believe that this content should be regulated within the framework of school legislation, not in the driver law. At the same time, we believe that it is necessary to carefully analyse the effectiveness of the inclusion of transport safety content in the curriculum in primary or secondary schools and preventive programmes in schools and kindergartens, as it has been established in the debate in the State Council that some of the content is already included in the curricula and that the question is, to what extent and how. Nevertheless, it is very important that the content of transport education is carried out by civil society and organisations engaged in preventive activities in the field of road safety, since it is only in this way that we can ensure a higher level of transport safety in the long term and that, irrespective of the text of Article 5, we can still implement these content in accordance with our acts and programmes of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u102	I don't know if you're going to take an hour after this session or this agenda item to explain to me what you've read. What you have read has nothing to do with what is in Article 5 as amended. Read the revised Article 5 and you will see that the Agency will deal with training for car insurance, road infrastructure and similar things. Please! You underpin the basic article, Mr State Secretary, where it says, the subtitle reads: Education and education for safe participation in road transport. You have not changed this in the supplementary proposal, which states: The content of road safety education is carried out by civil society and organisations involved in preventive road safety activities, in particular in cooperation with public education institutions. I understand it by the way that these are the auto schools, that they're the ones who train, they're preparing all these programs. You give them concessions, the school field does what it does, and it probably trains those instructors, because they have to be generally instigated, and some knowledge must probably also have in the field of transport, which they acquire in various other trainings and so on. I am not in favour of this amendment, as it was written in the sentence. But I am in favour of this original text, because it seems to me that it justifies your explanation. And I really want to know if you can tell me why you think this provision is better. Because I don't know what this agency can do after a new one. We've given the new agency authority, and that's crucial. They have the authority to plan, grant to the relevant organisations You have the following articles, which are not otherwise amended, but should be mentioned in this connection, where it says that they will maintain and manage a database and records of vehicle type-approvals, records of certificates of conformity issued, carry out professional tasks and so on. [[...]] However, not in the training chapter. As it is said, more than suggesting to the proponents that they try to do so and I will support the amendment, not because I would think it is the only solution, but because what is in the amended proposal I do not think is better. [[...]] It blurs things out before it makes them what they're supposed to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u104	I think it would be most appropriate for us to get together before deciding on this amendment, both the coalition and the proposer of this amendment, to examine this text and to draw up a text that we would then adopt in the third reading, which is also somehow a guarantee that we have reached an agreement. So that it is not an open question that we will now accept this amendment, then we will impose something on the Ministry of Education and Sport, because there will be a major problem again. It is of interest to harmonise the text that we would then propose as an amendment to the third reading. And I think that, really after these discussions, we could sit down and have at least half an hour's rest before the vote and make a harmonised text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anyone who intends to continue to participate, not only in the debate, but also in the drafting process, would point out that we have to follow the rules of procedure regarding the drafting of the amendments. When the debate on the amendment is concluded, the correction and the addition are no longer possible. It is possible to agree on a third hearing, which seems likely to be at the time of this meeting, probably not tomorrow, but Monday. Until then, an amendment can be drafted. Not expect us to take breaks now. If so, then you must request a break now, sit down and write the amendment in 15 minutes. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thanks for the heads-up. In fact, my aim was to conclude the debate on this article and then, before the second reading of this amendment takes place, we will reach agreement on the amendment to be adopted in the third reading. I therefore do not suggest that we take a break now and stop this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to add something on the content of this amendment to Article 5, which has always appeared in the current debate. In our presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group at first reading, we drew attention to this very content in Parliament. And at the time, it was also one of the reasons for our Group of Members not to support the proposal, because what we are talking about is missing. And I am pleased that we have been united here, almost all of the Members' groups, but we note that the applicant did not take account of something that would be very good for improving road safety. Such content is also derived from some other documents. And we were a little concerned about why the Ministry of Education and Sport did not participate in the Committee on Transport or in the previous discussions, which would be highly recommended. And if, then, I think, it is right now to unify ourselves in the sense that, in the context of Article 5, we should incorporate what is the contents of the amendment to Article 5 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u110	I just want to make an explanation. The Ministry of Education and Sport has participated in the preparation of this law. Representatives were also present on the committee when we discussed this law, but we need to know that the meeting lasted extremely long, from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., and that it is not expected that all participants will be able to monitor our discussions throughout the day. Thus, at the invitation, I would say, later, when this issue was open, however, they returned to the committee, but unfortunately it was not possible to return the debate to the article we have already discussed. Thus, the Ministry of Education and Sport has always been interested in participating in this, and I have no doubt that it will cooperate when we discuss how to make the most appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u111	Just one thing I would warn you about, and don't be too hard on me What we're doing today has been a late discussion with your mother's working body, where you probably weren't paying attention to the ones you're discussing today. [[...]] Let us therefore take this into account. Mr. Marinic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u112	No, it's the rules of procedure when it comes to obvious misunderstandings. I wanted to point out that the Ministry of Education and Sport did not cooperate when we discussed this content. However, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport returned when the committee had already voted on the content. Now we're going back to what someone "suck" up, and that needs to be explained. I have been paying attention to the discussions so far, in all the debates, from the first to the second, both at the plenary session and at the Transport Committee, and I am also consistent now that we are discussing this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u113	Havela beautiful. I conclude the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article, and we turn to Article 54 and the amendment to this Article tabled by the SD, Zares and LDS. There's no desire to discuss it, so I'm concluding it. I inform you that the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has withdrawn the amendment to Article 62 and we are moving on to the debate on Article 96 and the amendment tabled by the SD, Zares and LDS. Anybody want to talk? No, I'm closing the debate. And we are moving on to Article 98 and the amendment tabled by the SD, Reale and LDS Members' Group to this article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and thus the debate on amendments to the Drivers Act. The decision will be made tonight within the framework of the planned programme of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – IT IS A PROPOSAL OF A ENGINE REGULATION. The bill was tabled by the Government and I give Dr. Igor Jakomin my word for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We have before us the proposal for a law on motor vehicles, the first roof law in the field of motor vehicles in our country. This will be a general law which will provide a legal basis for more detailed legal regulation of all technical requirements for road vehicles as well as for tractors in the performance of agricultural and forestry works. As we have already pointed out in the first reading, this bill brings quite a few novelties, which will mean more friendly solutions for our citizens, remove certain administrative obstacles, and certainly with its solutions, it represents a step forward in efforts to improve road safety. The law was designed with the assistance of foreign experts and then finalized through the participation of the general public and coordinated in cross-cutting coordination. In the process of first reading the law in the National Assembly, it was supported by all parliamentary groups, except one. Following the discussion, a number of amendments from the parliamentary groups were tabled in the text of the proposal. On the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee of the National Assembly approved and adopted all amendments, with the exception of one. In our view, therefore, this bill, which we have on the table, is a good compromise in which we have only a few more issues that we think we can resolve properly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thanks again for saying that. We also discussed the proposal for the Motor Vehicle Act at the 14th meeting, which was held on 1 December. And also for this law, a general debate was held, and on the basis of the decision of the National Assembly that the law is suitable for further consideration, we held a second hearing on the Committee. Dr Igor Jakomin, Secretary of State, said that the law had been presented both in the general debate and in all the proceedings that took place at the time of the drafting of this law, saying that the comments made on the proposal for a law submitted by the Legislative Service had been taken into account and that further explanations had not actually been made at this meeting of the Committee. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also found that all the issues raised by them were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The National Council also supports the law and has pointed out that it is necessary to return the time of technical review for new vehicles for three years and not four years, as is now the case. In the course of the discussion, the president of the section of technical inspections of motor vehicles and trailers operating within the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also pointed out this problem and informed us that the study which was also produced in 2007 and prepared by the International Road Safety Monitoring Organisation recommended that personal vehicles be serviced or carried out after three years of first registration. However, the representative of the Transport Directorate explained that within the European Union these recommendations had not yet been included in the European Directives governing the field of technical checks, and we did not join the Committee in shortening the deadline for the first technical review after the registration of the vehicle. The Committee has also considered all the amendments tabled and on the basis of those adopted – that is, it has voted on all the articles of the bill together and has thus drafted an updated proposal for the Motor Vehicles Act, which we are meeting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 21st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 December this year. I turn to Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am moving on to Article 33 and the amendment to this Article, which has been tabled by the Slovenian National Party. Nobody wants a word. We are moving on to the 50th Article and the first amendment to the 50th Article tabled by the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the National Party and the second amendment to the 50th Article, also the Slovenian National Party, and the third amendment – also the Slovenian National Party. I am opening the debate on Article 50 and the three amendments to this Article. Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I missed the last one, or I'd say something. As far as Article 50 is concerned, the introduction of a specific exemption for certain trailers for special purposes is not justified by anything. The possibility of technical errors and the difficulty of transport requires the same frequency as for other trailers of this category, as the carriage of a boat or sports horse requires at least the same technicalally correct trailer as the trailer for the transport of other cargoes. Due to the specificity and mobility of the cargo, technical integrity is even more necessary. The impression is that the exception is intended for specific privileged users. And if I can now talk about the following, which explains that vehicles owned by legal persons are considered to be at a much greater risk of technical errors and require a greater degree of compliance with safety conditions, as they carry out more drivers, workers employed by legal persons who are not experts or do not know the characteristics or characteristics of vehicles. The proposal of the Road Traffic Rules Act also provides that the driver of a vehicle carrying out public transport of passengers or goods or the carriage of persons for his own use shall not have alcohol in the body, in the same way as drivers of category C, D and E. These drivers shall be subject to stricter criteria than normal drivers of category B. In a similar manner as vehicles for public transport of passengers are examined, also vehicles intended for the transport of passengers should be inspected. And to the third amendment to Article 50. I'd just like to give you an explanation here. We are of the view that technical inspections of all trailers must be carried out each year, in particular from the point of view of technical integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jakomin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Given that we have three amendments here, I would just like to give an opinion on the first amendment. This amendment removes the exemption for the first technical inspection after the first year of registration for light trailers and special trailers up to 3 000 500 kilograms for the transport of preparations for sports and sports horses. It follows from the view of the proposed law that these switch vehicles are involved in much less traffic than other trailers of this category used for commercial purposes and therefore do not require a first technical review after the first year after registration and thereafter every year a technical review. Such arrangements are, in principle, now in force. A special vehicle for transporting preparations for sport and sports horses shall carry a cargo which is normally of high value and is therefore also in the interest of the owner himself to be in good condition. However, this provision shall in no way prevent the owner of the trailer from carrying out a preventive technical inspection whenever he deems necessary. The draft law also lays down the responsibility of the vehicle owner for the use of technically sound vehicles in traffic, and also sanctions that. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment should not be accepted. Second amendment. This amendment introduces a requirement that personal vehicles owned by legal persons should carry out their first technical review after the first year of registration and thereafter every year. The drafter of the law is of the view that such a provision constitutes an inequality of owners in the use of the same vehicles and does not accept the explanation of the amendment by the applicant that the drivers of the vehicles are owned by legal persons by non-professionals who do not know the characteristics or characteristics of the vehicles. Even drivers of vehicles owned by natural persons are not experts, and in the family, it is common for several drivers to drive the same vehicle. In the case of larger legal persons, there are usually experts who care about the technical condition of vehicles, so many times it is even better taken care of than in the family. In addition, the fact that, according to the latest data in Slovenia, 38% of new passenger vehicles are in use under leasing contracts, i.e. users of these vehicles must carry out technical checks after the first year and thereafter each year, as these vehicles are actually owned by legal persons and their users are also natural persons. And if you'll just let me have a few more words for the third amendment. The third amendment introduces the requirement that for light trailers and special trailers and special trailers up to 3 000 500 kilograms for transporting preparations for sport and sports horses be technically inspected by one plus one plus one plus one plus one plus two plus two plus one plus one plus one and so on. The position of the Ministry shall be the same as that of the amendment to Article 50(1). It follows from the view of the proposed law that these trailers are involved in much less traffic than other trailers of this category used for commercial purposes and therefore do not require a first technical review after the first year following the registration and thereafter each year’s technical review. Such arrangements were in principle already in force, especially vehicles for transporting preparations for sport and sports horses transport cargo which is usually of great value and is therefore also in the interests of the driver himself that the vehicle is in perfect condition. This provision shall in no way prevent the owner of the trailer from carrying out a preventive technical inspection at any time, if he deems necessary. The draft law also lays down the responsibility of the vehicle owner for the use of technically sound vehicles in traffic and also sanctions this. For this reason, we propose that this as the previous amendment should not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. We have also been given additional training on this subject by the members of the Transport Committee. If I touch the first amendment to Article 50, which deals with exceptions or which wishes to delete the exception that for residents, such as those used by people when they go on vacation, to the sea, once a year, undergo a technical inspection every year. In fact, this amendment goes this way so that everyone who owns this trailer before going on vacation should take it for a technical checkup and, of course, then spend those fourteen days or a month on vacation or even if he leaves a little longer. However, it is a one-time use when you go on vacation and when you return and the load of this trailer is significantly lower than if it is in a few days’ use or casual use. And in avoiding the costs and complications that some people would have with this, I think it makes sense to maintain this exception, and that these trailers are also subject to a technical review for four years, as is the case with passenger vehicles. However, with regard to what is stated in the second amendment that private vehicles owned by legal persons should be subject to a technical review every year, I think that, at this point, when we are still in extremely difficult economic conditions, this means an additional burden for economic companies and some companies have a very large number of cars and this would also mean an additional burden for them, additional costs. I think it would actually not be appropriate during this period, although perhaps at some point I agree that a vehicle used by several drivers is, I would say, harder to control what is happening to it than if the vehicle is used by one driver or maybe two, who, after all, have very good confidence and let themselves know if there is any problem on that vehicle. However, in order to avoid additional burdens on companies and, last but not least, on all other economic persons who benefit, say, from the State budget, I do not think it is appropriate to adopt this amendment in these circumstances. Of course, I will not support the first and second amendments myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Well, to avoid thinking that we don't know any expert experts in the Slovenian National Party Group, let's say that all of the amendments mentioned are from the profession, from the various chambers that are likely to deal with the content of these amendments for the rest of their lives. And the objective of these amendments is not to politically dictate left or right, centre or anyone else, but three are: firstly, taking into account the opinion of the profession according to their experience, secondly, the common objective of road safety and thirdly, the technical integrity of all vehicles and all road users. All the elements listed in the amendments to Article 50 are often the cause or cause of accidents. Of course, there must be a lot of experts in the Ministry, and they know how to say their own, but I'd like to give you one comparison. The goals are not bad, the experts know what they are doing, but talk about whether someone agrees with what they are doing, if someone, for example, goes on vacations or once takes horses to an exhibition or a race, so that they do not have to go. You know, it's like I would say that if I did one year's sentence, it's enough if I gave 20 euros, if I did three times, I'd give 500. It's not working! We can't talk like that! If someone is a trafficker or once a year or ten times a year — if we are all equal before the law, after the constitution, then we are all the same. I think it's irresponsible to say that. I'm not saying that everything that's written here is right, but whoever's involved in traffic is involved in traffic and peaks! Or let's just put this into law if I do one offense, I'll only pay 10 euros if I pay ten, but I'll pay, I don't know, 1,000 or how many fines. Let's go like this! It's not working. The Constitution says we're all the same in road traffic. And even such trailers and such vehicles often have even greater responsibilities because of the contents of the load. I don't want to force anyone, I just wanted to say that this is an expert opinion, we have taken into account the chambers that have been dealing with this for many years, the goal is road safety and, of course, the basic principle that we must all respect – equality before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I no longer see a desire to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate on Article 50 and the amendments to this Article. This concludes the debate on amendments to the law. I inform you that we will make decisions on the amendments tonight or late this afternoon in the framework of the work programme. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Traffic Act. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary to the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Rail Transport Act pursues a number of basic objectives: to ensure the implementation of new directives and thus to comply with European legislation; in the light of the European Commission's reasoned opinion, to ensure compliance with the directives of the first rail package and to ensure efficient management of investments in public rail infrastructure through the transformation of the organisation of the rail system. The proposal for a law contains the following essential innovations: transferring the tasks of determining the timetable from the Slovenian Railways to the Railway Agency; transferring the tasks of the regulatory authority from the Ministry of Transport to the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications; transferring the tasks of managing investments in a public infrastructure company that is 100 % of the country's own; transferring the provisions of the law concerning the organisation of Slovenian railways to a new law and implementing certain provisions of the Directives of the European Union that have not yet been implemented. In this way, the adoption of the bill will remedy most of the evidence from the reasoned opinion of the European Union Commission and transpose all provisions on the organisation of the Slovenian Railway Company into a separate law. This is necessary, according to the applicant’s assessment, as the Rail Transport Act applies or must be respected by all railway undertakings. It is therefore more appropriate that the provisions governing the status and organisation of the national carrier are in a separate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Pollution to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Janko Webr, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you, again, for your word. Well, after the package of road laws, we went to the board and then to the railroad. In fact, at the same meeting, on 1 December, on the 14th regular session, we also discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Rail Transport and, in the introduction of the bill, the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, stressed some of the key elements in this law. In particular, the administrative part of the railway system needs to be aligned with the directives of the first infrastructure package; quality decommissioning of the obligations of the economic public services and adequate payment from public resources must be ensured, in particular transparency of costs; all necessary organisational structures must be provided to implement the modernisation of public railway infrastructure and to remedy the negative economic situation of the Slovenian Railway company, d.o.o. The Legislative and Legal Service, which reviewed the text of the law, also drew attention to some of the substantive solutions in this law, of course some of the shortcomings have been corrected by amendments, but it continued to point out those provisions relating to the notion of investment in public rail infrastructure. In fact, the definition of superstructure is excluded from this concept. And this is one of those issues that remains, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, unresolved. In addition, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that the relationship between individual taskholders is not sufficiently clearly defined. From a legal point of view, it also drew attention to solutions relating to the role of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications as a regulatory body. Well, the opinion of the Council of State or its commission responsible for this area is such that it gave a positive opinion on this law. In the debate itself, the opinion of the Director of the Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Management may also be highlighted, which pointed out that there is a professionally illogical and economically unjustified separation of investments from upgrades, the proposed amendment constitutes a fragmentation of investments and, in this respect, an increased risk of acquisition of cohesion policy funds, as confirmed in its opinion by the European Affairs Office. Well, all these questions were also answered by the Minister of Transport, and then we joined in the consideration of amendments, which have also been tabled several times to this law, so, in addition to the six amendments of the SDS Group of Members, five were tabled by the Zares Group of Members, then Matevž Frangež two, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party six and the SD Group of Members, the LDS of the nine amendments, and four amendments were drafted by the Committee itself on the basis of a proposal from the Government. Well, after amendments had been adopted or the articles to which the amendments had been tabled, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. This is also the case with this bill, so the text that we are considering today at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Lojze Posedel will present Mr Zares' position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Ministry has introduced the amendment of the Rail Transport Act into the parliamentary procedure mainly due to the prepared starting points, which are expected to lead to the transformation of the Slovenian railways. According to the Minister, and also in the Committee's conclusions, it is necessary to align the administrative part of the railway system with the directives of the first infrastructure package, to ensure the qualitative decoupling of the obligations of the economic public services and the appropriate payment from public funds, to provide all the necessary organisational structure for the implementation of the modernisation of the public railway infrastructure, and not least to remedy the negative situation of the Slovenian Railways. We are truly aware of the importance in the Group of Members, and in particular of the transparency of updating and eliminating anomalies in the railway area, even in the light of the construction of the second railway track, so at this stage we will not oppose the proposed solutions. We would like to point out, however, that regardless of this decision by Members and Members, it is the responsibility of the Minister who will have to take full responsibility for himself in addition to the positive possible negative consequences. Why am I stressing this? In our parliamentary group, we have warned the Minister during the coordination process, as well as at his own examination of the labour force, that the proposed modification of the individual terms already in line with other regulations in the Republic of Slovenia - for example, investment in public railway infrastructure means not only the construction of new routes, but also upgrades and renovations - that this is unnecessary since this is already defined in the Railway Safety Act. The way in which the proposal is drawn up may, according to our assessment, mean that two entities will lead investments in public rail infrastructure, which may not be the best solution in terms of transparency, efficiency and transparency. We also expressed our fear that the proposed way of investing in public rail infrastructure could be crushed, which could also pose a great risk in terms of obtaining European cohesion funds. Let us recall that the Court of Auditors also recommended the development of public rail infrastructure in the audit report: "...let the planning of the development of public rail infrastructure from the current planning and implementation of investments through sections be directed towards a more prudent approach to the planning of integrated transport solutions." The conclusion of the quote. The sharing of investments in upgrades and new upgrades may, according to our assessment, blur clear criteria between the two concepts, resulting in the separation of investment managers and upgrades. While the Ministry is in the field of security and transparency, it is introducing a system of control for which we really hope that it will be sufficient and successful in the Group of Members. We are aware that there is a lot of work ahead of us in the field of public rail infrastructure and, above all, a lot of strangers. That is why we want the Ministry or the Government to really achieve all the objectives that have led to these solutions at the final stage. Therefore, we will not oppose such a proposal in the parliamentary group, but we will closely monitor all developments in this area, as past experience, unfortunately, has also shown many shortcomings. As we say, we will support the proposal in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you. Your Honors are here! Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party added 6 to the draft law, as did other parliamentary groups, some of which were partly summarised in the additional coalitions adopted. Above all, we are pleased that together we have only managed to maintain the seat of the Society in Maribor. While we assess in the Slovenian People's Party's Group those changes to the law relating to the urgent transposition of the so-called first rail package of directives into the Slovenian legal order as necessary, it is also necessary for those who would improve conditions and ensure competitiveness and efficiency in the management of public rail infrastructure. In view of the different views of Slovenske železnice d.o.o. and the Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investments, we have also tabled some amendments to enable them to effectively implement the law and improve the functioning of the company and subsidiaries. While some provisions of the law have improved with the adoption of the supplement, the basic dilemma remains: it is not clear what will be the consequences of the remaining amendments, in particular the amended definitions in Article 2, which constitute a step back in the sense of public service delivery. Investment in public rail infrastructure does not only mean the construction of new routes, but also of upgrades and renovations, as defined in the Railway Safety Act and in the Regulation amending and supplementing the Single Methodology Regulation for the preparation and treatment of public finance investment documentation. Therefore, these rules will also have to be amended. By introducing two separate terms of "investment" and "improvement" there are actually upgrades and investments, investments in public rail infrastructure will be led by two entities. From the point of view of transparency, efficiency and transparency, this is certainly a step backwards. It is therefore not clear whether the amendment of the law defines the tasks and competences of companies in such a way as to ensure the effective implementation of the tasks so that our railways are competitive and, above all, to ensure continued safety in rail transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act changes the whole railway sector. Major changes are foreseen in the field of investment. The new construction will be carried out by an economic company which will be owned by a hundred percent of the state, either by this special company or by DDC. It is a company which, on behalf and on behalf of the State, will invest in railway infrastructure. This is because the infrastructure will be owned by the State and not by the infrastructure company, since otherwise the investment in the budget would involve unlawful State aid. The DDC consultancy and engineering company, which has so far performed most of the tasks for the state, especially for Dars, needs to be reformed because it no longer has as many tasks as it once did. The implementation of the upgrade will be awarded through public tendering and reconstruction and maintenance will be carried out by Slovenian railways. Public calls for the implementation of the upgrade were decided because the new construction in Slovenia will be so important that the question of whether the one implementing them will be able to do the upgrades as well. In Slovenia, there was already a system under which the construction, renovation and maintenance of the tasks of the Slovenian Railways were carried out by the Directorate due to cohesion funds. However, the Directorate has so far left certain services as an external contractor to Slovenian railways. The adoption of the railway law is also necessary in the view of the applicants in order to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the European one. The European Commission has launched a procedure against Slovenia for failure to implement the EU acquis in the field of rail legislation. According to the Minister of Transport, the adoption of new legislation is sufficient for the Commission. In the opinion of the Minister, so far the State has not provided funds for investments in rail infrastructure. The allocations for railway infrastructure, new construction and investment maintenance are expected to amount to EUR 108 million per year. As explained, the investment cycle will last for several years, as it has so far been quite blurry. The national railway programme is far from over. Only 30% or even less are met. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the law. However, we have some concerns about supporting the bill because we have the feeling that the Minister forced it into the procedure, even though some things have not yet been harmonised. This means that transparency is not ensured in the field of investment in railway infrastructure. The opinion of the European Affairs Service also confirms that there are proposed changes to the fragmentation of investments, which means increasing the risk of acquisition of cohesion policy funds. However, in terms of overall transport solutions, the Court of Auditors considers that the development of public railway infrastructure must be planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u136	Good-bye to all of this! Marriage, however, is necessary, and I think it makes sense to support it. However, there are a number of specific issues involved. First of all, who will be who and what that company will be in 100% of state ownership, when it wants to put DDC in any way in this position. DDC is increasingly showing up as some strange society where money disappears here, there, after various pockets, there are no checks performed, if anyone wants to do controls, they usually throw it out or something like that. Such companies that would lead investments that would amount to at least two hundred to three hundred million euros in the railway, but probably even more, if there were any other upgrades, not just upgrades, this is called electrification, an increase in carrying capacity and so on, one would ask himself whether it is right for a company that does not enjoy the trust of citizens, the trust of inspection bodies, not internal ones, but external ones, and ultimately I think that the state should also cut in between. It is interesting, however, that if there is no single development or single investment in development, in this case it is questionable whether these small investments can receive financial support from European funds under cohesion funds. In short, if we go too far, we won't get European funds if we don't crush, there's a second danger that then a ruling coalition will run investments in the hands of one company that will spend money and throw money through a window with a shovel, buy new cars every so long, equip offices, pay enormously high monthly revenues – and nothing else. It is also questionable if the DDC had the necessary knowledge at all, I think it does not have this knowledge, which means that it should employ additional people, which would again allow the use of various strange methods of employment; that is to say, they will draw in a hundred new people, who are from friendly companies, from friendly logs, from friendly parties, and of course the country would not have any good of this. However, it would make sense to draw up a national programme for the development of railway infrastructure. After all, we don't have it, because we don't know what to do. The only thing to be noted is this – and this is an indisputable fact – that the railway in Slovenia today is slower than it was during the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. After 1849, when they arrived from Vienna from the railway to Ljubljana and then – I think – by 1856 to Trieste, we can say that the railway connection was already more rapid than today if we take Vienna-Trieste. Also, if we take the link Ljubljana – Trieste, it was faster than it is today; but also if we only take Ljubljana – Postojna, then the railway was faster than the railway today. The infrastructure is destroyed, "glazes", as railways call it, that's what the tracks are called, are licked, destroyed. Even up to an inch of deep use are on them, which certainly only means that they need to be replaced with new ones. The burden of the tracks does not hold up these rail loads and trains — and what are we going to do about it? I think it would make sense to do a new national development programme, also draw new routes and start working on it. Let's take a look at Switzerland, the Swiss built one tunnel that cut the train connection for two minutes, and it paid them off. They said, "It's worth it." Above all, let's get the railways back into the tunnels, level the line so that we can compete with the speed of our railways. Otherwise, we can only bring in museum trains and those older ones who will never receive a pension can give for conductors, at least the pretty old ones will look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone gathered in the hall! If Slovenian railways in our country are synonymous with the rail subsystem, we can say that Polish electric motor equipment from the early 1960s, known as the Gomules and which, you will not believe, still transport and torture passengers along Slovenian railways, symbolize all the powerlessness of transport policy holders in the last 20 years, while transforming our rail subsystem into a modern and efficient and most important part of the Slovenian transport system. Although the railways have also been the subject of lively political conflicts, referendums, unsuccessful and never completed rehabilitations and reorganisations, as well as visits by the President of the Government, we must all acknowledge that they were and remain, above all, pastors of each transport policy. They are more or less affected by the rail subsystem following accession to the European Union simply because of the implementation of the European Union Directives. After a year and a half, we can recast the law on rail transport, entirely because of the European Commission's decision, the warnings and the application against Slovenia for non-implementation of the first rail package. Therefore, the amendment in question brings some provisions of the Directives of the first rail package which, in the Commission's view, have not been transposed into our legislation and corrects the implementation of certain provisions which, in the Commission's view, have not been properly transposed. Therefore, the novelty introduces a fully independent exercise of train path design functions, the production of timetables, networks and charging of this charging. In accordance with the legal order of the European Union, in the event that a railway infrastructure manager is also linked to one of the carriers, all of those essential functions of the operator must be eliminated and put into effect by an independent entity. As a result, the amendment of the law provides that the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia shall fully assume all those functions. Another important change is ensuring independence and control in the exercise of competition with the independence of the regulatory authority. Unfortunately, however, we must point out that, even on this issue, the necessity and urgency of these changes, as well as part of the political and professional public, do not agree. This was well illustrated at a meeting of the parent committee when, for example, one of the transport policy holders of the previous government argued that the applicable railway law was in line with all the directives of the European Union. This is a minor detail which, in relation to other details, explains why we have such a railway subsystem as we have, and confirms the conclusion that the blame for the situation is well distributed throughout the transport policy industry in Slovenia. With legal solutions in the LDS, we also highlight the reorganisation of the existing railway system, namely Slovenian Railways, Public Railway Agency and the Ministry of Transport. For legal, substantive and nomadic reasons, we welcome the establishment of provisions relating to the business system of Slovenian railway companies, which receives its special law. At the end of the day, even in LDS, we cannot go beyond some of the key changes, namely the organisation of investments in rail infrastructure. The fact is that we are facing large-scale investment in rail infrastructure, otherwise the flows of goods will be permanently diverted. This process has already begun, and we hope that the system envisioned by the Minister of Transport personally, which is opposed by many, will actually be effective and will allow for absolute transparency in the use of public funds. The Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investment is hereby repealed and its tasks are transferred to the company in 100 % of the country's ownership. We believe that the issues such as: whether this company should be created by the existing Roads Directorate as an engineer will lead new constructions, further how to ensure the transparency of the use of public funds in the event that renovations and maintenance work are carried out within the Slovenian Railways, so that these issues will still be subject to controversial debates. Whatever the case, in the LDS we are aware that in the national interest we need to update the railway infrastructure as soon as possible and at the same time transform the Slovenian Railways into a modern, according to the geographical position of Slovenia, the leading regional operator, who will carry out a comprehensive transport logistics activity. Therefore, this time we will support the project in this direction, while expecting all involved entities to do their utmost to make the project work for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u139	Mr. Gumzar, thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We in the Solidarity Group, too, are aware of the central importance of transport in general and rail transport and its problems in particular, so we are trying to place these problems of rail transport in a broader connotation, because they are not only specific problems, namely transport problems, but also economic problems in general, they are social problems and they are also major problems that we have with transport and poor infrastructure in the field of environmental protection. We are convinced that this transport subsystem needs to be developed more quickly than it has been so far, because the situation in this area is quite bad that I do not use any less euphemistic terms. Let us say that rail transport is not in support of the economy and more coherent development of Slovenia as it should be and could be if it were otherwise developed and modernised. Then let us say that we have very significant negative consequences with regard to the environment, because the unregulated traffic we have has contributed about 80% of the global impact and is extremely negative with regard to climate change. Let us also say that it does not fulfil its role, its social role and other roles, as we believe it should be done. In fact, with a lack of accessibility, both physical and affordable, for the majority of the population in public transport. So this lack also affects the social situation in us. The current situation is relatively poor. Much more should be done to modernise the old and establish new railway infrastructure. Much more should be done to make the operation of this system more cost-effective and to make it possible to have a smaller social, read the trade union impact on business decisions within this system. Therefore, due to the whole type of weakness, it is necessary to reorganise, both for internal reasons, which I have now somehow listed, as external ones, which have also been listed today in relation to how and what the European Commission reminds us of, because we have a system that distorts market competition, because we have a system that somehow gives some characteristics of the monopoly situation to unorganise the Slovenian Railways and because we also have an inadequately regulated or placed regulator. Because we hope that something will really contribute to the improvement of the situation, we will support this law, but with some serious concerns. The first thought is that what the Law-Legal Service says is being rehearsed again, and so is usually the case with us; when we do not like professional grades, we simply overexamine them. Another point is that we do not have anything to help those who are not experts in this field. We find only a repetition of what is stated in the article, for we are searching for excuses in vain. And that is why we cannot explain how it is possible to separate so far the so-called "investment" into "investment" and "upgradation", unless we link it slightly to the headquarters of an institution or company that will be in Maribor. However, it seems that this courtship of Maribor is in such a way that the seat will remain there, somehow deteriorated by taking part of the investment and, of course, when taken in this way, also the importance of this company, which will have its seat in Maribor. I'm thinking of so-called upgrades. However, the second major concern about this law is whether what is promised can be achieved more effectively without changing staff, changing infrastructure and changing organisations. We just see the last one as a reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable secretary with a team, respectable colleagues! By road problem or, if you like, we also have a subject in front of us so-called railway package. I must say that in this mandate, the Government was aware of all the problems that had accumulated on the railways, especially the potential for development on the Slovenian railways. Of course, some legislative decisions and economic policies must be made for this reason. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the transport sector is one of the key elements in the development of the economic and social life of the community in any spatial framework. The European Union, as a wider community for which the population of Slovenia, as the rest of the community, has decided to co-operate, is paying particular attention to the development of the transport sector. For the thorough renovation of Slovenian railways in line with trends in the European Union, it is essential to establish the organisation of Slovenian railway companies, which will allow for their greater efficiency and transparent use of public funds for the implementation of economic public services. If we are to start such a renovation of the Slovenian Railways, there is an urgent need for changes in the organisation of investments in railway infrastructure. The proposal for a new railway law ahead of us is an organisation that will ensure the full independence of the train path design functions, the production of the network timetable and the calculation and the collection of supplies. As a result, the amendment of the law provides that the Railway Agency shall fully assume all those functions. The proposed law thus amends and complements the Rail Transport Act in order to reorganise the companies of Slovenski železnice d.o.o. into the business system of Slovenian railway companies. At the same time, in order to achieve effective management of investments in public rail infrastructure, the Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investment will be transformed into an economic company which will own 100 % of the state of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Social Democrats Group, we are convinced that the proposed amendment to the Rail Transport Act allows us to build everything we want to build in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of railway infrastructure, and in particular to build in a transparent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respectable and respected present! We will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Important emphasis and a few reasons why not: the proposal for a law defines investment in public rail infrastructure as the construction of new public railway infrastructure; upgrades on railway infrastructure are not defined as investments; the law defines the maintenance of railway infrastructure, including renovations. On the basis of those definitions, it is stipulated that the investments would be managed by a new company in 100 % of the ownership of the country, the company will be established or will be one of the existing companies, as already mentioned, the DDC. Maintenance and renovation will be carried out by Infrastruktra d.o.o. within Holdinga Slovenske Slovenske Slovenske railway as an economic public service; a tender will be selected for the management and execution of the upgrades on the basis of a call for tender. The proposal for a law confers on a new company the competence to manage new buildings only, to manage and implement upgrades, a tender will be selected on a public invitation to tender. Such a solution is very unusual, since the State on the one hand is setting up a company to manage investments in public rail infrastructure, which is granted only for new constructions, and at the same time intends to look for a tendering provider to manage and implement upgrades. The solution is inadequate in terms of rationality and efficiency and transparency in the use of public funds. A viable solution would be that the new company has the competence to manage new constructions and upgrades, and the upgrades are in fact investments. With the solution proposed, the state loses direct control over the use of public money. While the explanation for Article 3 is stated, it is unusual for the Commission to carry out maintenance and renovation of public railway infrastructure and for the Investment Management Company to conduct investments and to prepare and implement public calls for the management and implementation of public railway infrastructure upgrades. This claim is not based on Article 13.b. Given the transitional provisions in Article 14, such a claim is even more questionable. However, part of the staff who carried out the tasks of overseeing the implementation of economic public services and the implementation of upgrades takes over from the Ministry of Transport. All of this is confusing and complicated with these expressions, many of which you have already pointed out. The use and transparency of the resources that railways intend to draw from cohesion funds in the future will therefore also be questionable. It's a lot of money, it's a lot more money than it's been in the 15-year national highway construction programme so far. And here is also the question and dilemma, whether or not the interests of those who have now participated in the construction of the highway program have seen their opportunity here as well. For, as it is said, this is a matter of great resources and it could happen, even though we are changing this law, to change it because someone else has an interest, not an interest, which is warned by this or her government. Slovenian railways today deal with problems, with non-competitiveness, cannot offer those products required by modern rail infrastructure. If we allow this to continue, this is a poor road map for the development and progress of Slovenian railways, even when we are talking about development for investment in public rail infrastructure. Either because of this law, or because it is reversed, the organisation of the Slovenian Railways should also be changed and we will talk about the next law. As it is said, we are not in favour of such a solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. Given the number of amendments tabled, I would like to remind you that this can be done soon after 3 p.m. and that we are counting on this to proceed to the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. TIME OF DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON THE SLOVENIAN RAIL COOPERATION. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The aim of the law is to establish baselines to enable the transformation of Slovenian railways as a single undertaking into holding organisation, thus establishing the status form, organisations and tasks of the Slovenian Railway Company and other legal persons in its majority ownership. The basic principles for this transformation are: to ensure the independence of the infrastructure manager in accordance with the provisions of the Directives of the first rail package, to establish the necessary autonomy for the transport part of the undertaking and to ensure the conditions of long-term financial efficiency and to establish an organisation that will guide individual companies to the basic tasks for which they are established and to strictly manage the costs of individual companies. Due to the current single organisation of Slovenian railways, the opinion of the European Commission has been transmitted several times in the Republic of Slovenia, which relates mainly to the overrelationship of the public infrastructure manager and the railway carrier. In addition, it is estimated that the transfer of these tasks to independent companies will improve the efficiency of these companies and increase transparency in the use of public funds. The bill provides for the reorganisation of the company Slovenske železnice, d.o.o. into the business system of Slovenian railway companies. The Slovenian Railway Company, d.o.o. becomes a parent company that is obliged to establish three subsidiaries: the management of public railway infrastructure, the conduct of passenger transport and the execution of the transport of goods. By forming a holding company and with three companies in this holding company, the possibility of an optimal organisation to carry out the basic activity for which they are to be established will be provided to the extent possible to ensure that the undertaking focuses on the tasks arising from the contracts with the State, as well as on the tasks arising from their market activities. At the same time, holding organisation is an entity that connects in an area where integration of transport and logistics processes is necessary and meaningful. Other subsidiaries may also be set up as part of the holding, for example, to carry out other activities such as construction, manufacturing and maintenance of vehicles and so on. Loans and guarantees shall, according to the purpose of their lease, be transferred to subsidiaries, except where the lender does not agree, in this case remain with the parent company. We believe that such organisation of the Slovenian Railways will ensure the company's economic performance and ensure the proper independence of individual entities on the railway market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Railway Company was considered by the Committee at its 14th meeting, which was 1. 12. 2010 The introductory explanation was given by the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, who stressed that the law sought to establish the foundations for the transformation of Slovenian railways as a single undertaking into a holding organisation, thereby establishing the status, organisational form and tasks of Slovenian Railways and other legal persons in its majority ownership. The representative of the legislative service, who, of course, also reviewed the text of the law, raised the issue of the need for the proposed law. It pointed out that the legal basis for the establishment of the Slovenian Railway Company and the establishment of subsidiaries already contained the applicable rail transport law and that the relationship between the ruling company and the subsidiaries could also be regulated by the company's statute, subject to the Company Act. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council is similar to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, by pointing out another important fact that the capital adequacy of the Slovenian Railway Company should continue to be ensured before the adoption of this law, since it will be difficult to establish dependent companies which, under law, will be obliged to establish in such situations as is currently the case. In the debate, some members of the Committee also considered and highlighted the issue that, above all, the practice of amending railway legislation in the European Union is different in comparison with other members of the European Union; it does not change, say, for a decade or more, but we are practically changing the organisation of Slovenian railways from our mandate to our mandate, which somehow does not lead to effective work and the performance of the tasks of the Slovenian Railways. Representatives of the proposed or the Ministry of Transport also provided answers to these questions. The Committee also considered amendments that had been tabled and drafted its amendments by voting on and adopting all the articles jointly, following the amendments and the articles to which the amendments had been tabled. This is also the way in which the text is drawn up today at a meeting, as set up by the Committee at its meeting. At the same time, allow me to thank, on this occasion, that the Committee has performed a truly great task on 1 December, to all members and members of the Committee and to the secretaries or secretaries and to the Legislative and Legal Service and to all others who were present at this meeting, because we have yet to discuss six laws, we have adopted a number of amendments, and today, of course, we can discuss the road and railway laws precisely all day, because we have had a 12-hour debate on this issue on the Committee. Thank you again for your constructive cooperation at the Transport Committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u149	Havela beautiful. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you. Your Honor! We have before us a law that even the Legal and Legislative Service does not believe is necessary because the basis for the establishment of Slovenske železnice d.o.o. as a parent company and the establishment of subsidiaries and the transfer of tasks to them contains the already in force law on rail transport. The regulation of relations between a ruling company and subsidiaries could be regulated by an act, namely the company's statute. It is clear from the report of the parent committee that the members of the committee even consider that there are no reasons at this time for reorganisation of the Slovenian railway holding company from a single to a subsidiary. Why, then, should we adopt the law before us? In addition, it has happened again, as with the vast majority of the laws of this government, that almost all the articles have been amended by amendments to the coalition on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly. Members of the Slovenian People's Party agree with the comments and concerns of the Council of State and would like to hear the Minister's reply before deciding on the law. In particular, it is of concern that there is no clear fate of a company in the event of a possible bankruptcy of a company subject to the same provisions as other companies under the Company Act. With the amendment of the Railway Law, the provision on the specificity of the financial operation of the Slovenian Railways is deleted, which is linked to the deletion of all provisions governing the organisation and tasks of the Slovenian Railways. As an exception, the provisions of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation for Slovenian Railways have not been applied where insolvency and overindebtedness are due to the conduct of compulsory economic services in accordance with this law and on the basis of its rules. The question remains whether the capital adequacy of Slovenske železnice d.o.o. is ensured, since without this it will not be able to set up subsidiaries which will be obliged under this law to establish. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that a major problem for this company, which does not expect financial assistance from the State budget, is the rules on rail safety, the statutory requirements for the revision of rolling stock for which they do not have their own resources and therefore rent credits. It is worrying that the current indebtedness of Slovenian railways, around €375 million, is the majority of which is intended for the purchase and maintenance of vehicles. This law alone and the transformation of society will certainly not solve this problem. Last but not least, Members of the Slovenian People's Party are concerned about the appropriate and sufficiently precise rights of employees in the event of their transition to a dependent society, so that there will be no later labour disputes. If the law is necessary, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not object to it, but before the decision is taken, we ask for answers to the concerns raised and the comments raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! It's a technical law to transform society into a holding company. The law still provides that the founder and only member of the Slovenian Railways is the Republic of Slovenia, which cannot share or transfer its business interests to another person. The objectives to be achieved by this Act are to lay the foundations for the transformation of the Slovenian Railways as a single undertaking into a holding organisation, thereby establishing the status form, organisation and tasks of the Slovenian Railway Company and other legal persons in its majority ownership. The basic principles for this transformation are: ensuring the independence of the infrastructure manager in accordance with the provisions of the Directives of the first rail package, establishing the necessary autonomy for the transport part of the undertaking and thus ensuring the conditions of long-term financial efficient operation, establishing an organisation that will allow individual companies to focus on the basic tasks for which they are established, and strict management of the costs of individual companies. The Dutch form, according to the applicant, provides for the most secure and financially optimal transition to the independent operation of nuclear companies in the given circumstances. By forming a holding company and three companies in this holding company, the possibility of an optimal organisation to carry out the basic activities for which they are to be established should be provided to the extent possible and thus ensure that the undertaking focuses on the tasks arising from the contracts with the State as well as on the tasks arising from the market activity. At the same time, the holding organisation is linked by companies in areas where integration of transport and logistics processes is necessary and meaningful. The holding company shall also form subsidiaries which may be set up by a holding company or by an individual company which is an integral part of the holding company. The holding organisation will allow the establishment of new companies as the main pillars of the holding company. In the context of the holding, an Infrastructure, d.o.o. company is established which becomes a public railway infrastructure manager and maintains and continues to operate public economic services for the management of transport and the maintenance of public railway infrastructure. It also carries out management tasks with public rail infrastructure. Passenger transport – it is formed as a separate company in the field of public passenger transport, it will allow for smooth further development of international passenger transport and maximum involvement in the design and supply of integrated public passenger transport in Slovenia, as well as integration into the integrated public passenger system in Slovenia. The formation of a freight transport undertaking is particularly important due to the full commitment to the market activity of freight transport. The restructuring will provide an opportunity to optimise the cost of operating, cost management and a successful market performance. The bill is, as we estimate in the DeSUS Group, suitable for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. When we received this proposal for a law on the company of Slovenian Railways, we first asked the question of who was covering their backs with the law. After all, it is not necessary to have a special law to establish this matter. The company itself or the Slovenian Railways can organise itself with its statutes as holding and I do not know why it is necessary to have the National Assembly and the Government to cover it. Now, a lot of things can come to mind. Why especially passenger transport, why especially freight and why especially traffic management, maintenance of infrastructure and real estate in management? One thinks of ownership, which today is the laitmotiv of the ruling coalition, and given that railway stations have huge spaces in every major place, one can imagine that a rabbit is involved in this bush. Of course, the company has to be divided into individual parts first and then within these parts it has to be split together. Now, if the gentlemen who have been preparing this marriage haven't thought about it yet, I've given them the idea of how to do it and what to do to get them to fill their pockets a little longer. It is also a fact that one wonders: how and why we are now dealing with strong pre-grouping within an existing company, but when the first thing we should do is overturn the number of employees, pay and conditions. For example, with us, the train drivers have about a salary in the rank of pilot, and similar things. Europe has no such salaries, but no one will be involved. Therefore it happens that some Slovenian companies already have their own companies ready, or related or related to train companies abroad, Austria and Italy – of course because they are cheaper there. Certain ratings are still taken into account in train operations, still valid, while abroad they have long been eliminated. Then one also wonders how the holding company will transfer money from one company to another, as it is certain that which companies will be sufficient and will have to help with the money. From where? Is this where one thing is being prepared, which will bring a lot of money to some, while a hole in another or two companies will have to be filled by the state from the budget. We have not heard a word of this: everything is fine, what must be done, what will be done. I think it would be possible to do something different, certainly not with this minister, but with some minister who knows on the railways, who would know what needs to be done, but, above all, who would bring the railways closer to the European Union. We are now becoming a pocket of what I know, some kind of glue to European railway links, because the Italians are already building a fast track, the Austrians have almost done it and soon it will all go around Slovenia and that Hungarian Jerk, where the European crossing is supposed to be, there, it appears, we will not see Slovenian trains, because the basics of Mr Minister cannot be "concerned" and his at the Ministry. Instead of first addressing what is most necessary, some structural changes are being made. It is true, though, that in these structural changes, someone can fill his pockets if he takes the issue seriously and solves it where it is needed, but he could not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The solutions provided by the proposed law are mainly due to two facts. First time. The Rail Transport Act regulates rail transport in Slovenia and, of course, it also applies to other carriers that are already travelling on Slovenian routes and not only on Slovenian railways. It is therefore appropriate, from a legal and legal point of view, that the legal provisions relating solely to the company of the Slovenian Railway are separate from the regulation governing rail transport and, as such, intended for other carriers. However, since the importance of the Slovenian Railway company for Slovenia is very important for all known reasons, and taking into account existing practice, it is of course good that the legal solutions are registered in a specific law. Another time. The Government, as a proponent, rightly notes that the Slovenian Railway Company must be transformed from a single undertaking into a holding organisation. The draft law thus lays down the status form of the organisation and the task of the Slovenian Railway Company and other legal persons in its majority ownership. It is therefore a second attempt to transform Slovenian railways into holding. For the first time, despite the referendum decision and the law in force, for various reasons there was no real transformation, and the formal rejection of the holding organisation by the previous government by the adoption of the relevant amendment of the law was formally rejected. Each form has its advantages and weaknesses, of course, but the fact that Slovenian railways as a single undertaking have so far not been able to transform into a modern one, according to Slovenia's geographical position as a leading regional operator, which would carry out comprehensive transport and logistics activities. Although we do not claim in the LDS that the legal form is the only factor that makes this impossible, it is certainly one of the key factors. That is why we are favored by the holding organisation, which, in our view, brings a number of advantages. Above all, we want to highlight the fact that cleaner relations and accounts will be formed between companies. This will allow companies to focus on the core tasks for which they are established and on the strict management of their costs. It will establish the necessary independence of the company's transport sector and thus provide a condition for the long-term financial sustainability and efficiency of both companies. It is worth mentioning that holding organisation will now prevent the frequent practice of channelling funds between parts of the Slovenian Railways. Slovenian railways also carry out compulsory public economic services. In the light of the unique organisation of Slovenian railways, this fact has also repeatedly disturbed the European Commission, which has shown us too much linkage between the role of the public infrastructure manager and railway operator. By all means, independent companies will make it possible to be more efficient and, above all, more transparent in the use of public funds. The Dutch form is, of course, an intermediate solution between a single company and completely separate companies, which is due to decades of joint development and resulting technical, technological interconnectivity in the process and equipment a logical solution. The solution, which at the same time connects societies in areas where integration of transport and logistics processes is necessary, is necessary and logical. At the LDS Club, we believe that the consistent implementation of holding organisation will help to regulate relations and clean accounts within Slovenian railways, where for example the business unit Train provides drivers of both freight and passenger traffic or where, for example, the use does not include traffic management costs. The regulation of relations within the Slovenian Railways and the correct and correct direction of the Slovenian Railways as the manager of the public railway infrastructure within the rail subsystem is one of the key conditions if we want to develop Slovenian Railways into a modern and leading regional railway operator. We therefore support the proposal of the LDS House of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u158	A few brief views of the Solidarity Group on this law. Starting with us thinking that this law is necessary. If a railway law were to be passed and this law was not adopted, the first law would be so-called invalid. It would not be possible to achieve this because it was one of the objectives, in particular with regard to the reorganisation and change of the efficiency of Slovenian railways. Thus, the rail transport law imposes so much, requires the adoption of a law that will allow the implementation of ambition to move from losing to a successful competitive and efficient enterprise. The second thing to say is that the present law is such that it allows for a different organization. This is also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. This time, however, it may be justified to disregard its warning for two reasons. First, because the current law allows for a different organisation of Slovenian railways, it imposes it as mandatory in at least three systems, namely in the management of public infrastructure, in passenger and freight transport, which we think is logical and right and we receive our support. Secondly, this may also be justified because there are so many important and major changes in the organisation and operation that it would probably be a mistake to leave this to the decisions of the authorities now running the Slovenian Railways and to the internal acts of the Statute, so as to bypass the decisions of the National Assembly. I think it is right for the National Assembly to make these important decisions by law. Let us list some of the ambitions that this law has, more in the lines than in terms of some of the elaborations that are to come. First, it requires greater efficiency, lower costs, a shift from loss to profit, and probably this implies greater productivity. If we read this differently, it means that we will do at least the same with less employees or with existing employees significantly more. This is a fundamental principle of increasing productivity. Another time. As regards the more transparent implementation of investments and the use of public funds. This is not necessarily to be achieved, and the Legislative and Legal Service also points out this when it identifies a lack of clear separation between individual activities and operators involved in these activities. We believe that the Law-Legal Service here is largely right. The next ambition is the implementation of European legislation, mainly in the sense of breaking the single organisation we now know. However, in its introduction, the applicant notes that he does not intend to fully implement these divisions, because he is afraid that perhaps this history of different activities would not be re-established if these two systems were to be completely separated. So a complete divorce, as the proponent says, would be risky and perhaps not as effective as a unified organisation, at least as it has been so far. The financial implications are the following reason set by the proposer as one of the objectives. It sets out the objective that the financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will not be. This raises the question of how, under the same material conditions, with the same staff, with the same technology, with the same technological knowledge, with no new means, to move from loss to profitability, and we doubt that reorganisation itself will constitute some sort of catalyst that will cause general synergies. Nevertheless, we in the Group will support this bill, and we doubt that all the positive effects that are desired will be realized. However, it is certainly not possible to insist on current organisation and on current efficiency or on dealing with losses.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you very much again, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Both marriages, as the predecessor has found before me, are related and probably cannot be brought to life by both of us if we do not accept them both. This is how we will adopt both laws in the parliamentary group. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the Law on the Society of Slovenian Railways is necessary, the Law on Rail Transport is intended for rail transport in the Republic of Slovenia and is applicable accordingly to other carriers, while the Proposal for a Law on the Society of Slovenian Railways is for our carrier – and I think this is crucial – which enables him to do more intensive business. It is likely that we all aim to make this business a positive one, and I also believe those Members who have been in the rail system for years and years, and who know the system most within. The aim of the Proposal for a Law on the Company of Slovenian Railways, which we are considering today, is to establish a framework for the transformation of Slovenian Railways as a single undertaking into a holding organisation, establishing the status form, organisation and tasks of Slovenian Railways and other legal persons in its majority ownership. Let me say that we have already warned the Social Democrats about this in the previous term, and we have also been one of the ideal leaders to do so in this way. By creating a holding company, it is thus possible for an optimal organisation to carry out basic activities and the possibility for the undertaking to focus on the tasks arising from contracts with the State and on the tasks arising from market activities. As a result of all of this, this law will also be supported in the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u161	Havela beautiful. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected, a lovely greeting to all! We will not support the proposal for a law on the company of Slovenian Railways in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Why not? All that the proposer proposes with the content of this proposal and justifies with a view to improving the situation would already happen on the basis of the legislation in force, which also regulates this area well. It should be recalled here that a complete railway legislation has been modernised in the previous mandate of the Government from 2004 to 2008. If the applicants think that the proposals for amendments to the new railway legislation will improve the situation in all areas that are literally neglected, they are very wrong. In Slovenian railways, it is necessary to take a look at the segments of the management of basic activities in the rail system: transport of goods, transport of passengers and maintenance of railway infrastructure. These are the core activities managed by the Slovenian Railways today, which will also be managed by this Proposal for a Law on the Society of Slovenian Railways, to which we oppose the fact that, if necessary, this could already happen. All together, there is some doubt that, in fact, capital inadequacy is the one that fosters these changes. This, of course, is not good and this is not a solution for the system of Slovenian railways and for about 10 000 employees in the system of Slovenian Railways. What do railways do today? Instead of engaging in basic activities, waiting for a change in legislation, waiting for a change in internal organisation and waiting for the employer to deploy them there or elsewhere, or finding that they no longer have a job. In such a system as the system of Slovenian Railways, the psychology of the thinking of employees is, of course, justified, as employees in the Slovenian Railways are also aware that as such the system is constantly coping with major losses. If we had followed some of the solutions under the previous government's mandate, we could have identified an item in the consideration of the State budget proposal for 2011 and 2012, because in the previous mandate a large financial hole had to be remedied first by the Slovenian Railways system. And here's the problem today. Nothing will help if the President of the Government is every so long on a visit to 11 Collegeyard. That's too little. Today, these visits should be accompanied by some concrete solutions, which would improve the financial situation of the Slovenian Railway System. The financial consequences of the adoption of this law will, of course, be. What else? Big ones. And if we want to in a transparent, transparent way remedy these financial consequences in the system of Slovenian Railways, believe that the applicant will have to come with a national budget rebalancing. Otherwise, it is not possible to remedy the financial situation and we can once again modify the proposal for the organisation of Slovenian railways. Of course, there are other doubts that are probably justified, appetites on certain healthy cores that remain. In freight traffic, for example, some see their opportunity. Passenger transport and infrastructure are still owned by the State and should be provided by the State. This is of course simple thinking, but in the long run Slovenian railways and the system itself does not lead from a blind track in which, after the adoption of these laws, the Slovenian Railway will be again. This is not good for a country that is thus trying to help and rescue a system such as the rail system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Lojze Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on the company of Slovenian Railways. I am convinced that it is not necessary, as the last position of our group, to repeat all the legitimate reasons and clearly defined objectives which are to be achieved by the proposed law. Today, it has been proposed so many times that I can only repeat that we also support the establishment of a holding company and other companies, because this can ensure optimal organisation for the performance of all activities and tasks. With the support of this proposal, we repeat the warning as in the previous one that there is a need for strict supervision of the transparency of the use of financial resources in the system of Slovenian Railways. As we say, in the Group of Members, we will indeed support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 May. 12. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening applications for discussion. The word is Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this amendment deletes Article 1 so that, as we can see, practically the entire Proposal for a Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railways, if adopted, falls. But obviously that's not gonna happen. It is obvious that the applicant has made a different decision. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned, as is evident from our position, which has raised quite a few concerns, doubts as to why the applicant is changing the system, such as the Slovenian Railway System, which was fully modernised in the previous mandate. It is also surprising that the trade unions, which we know as extremely strong when it comes to the exercise of their rights, agreed at that time. Now they seem to agree again with the changed mode of organisation. This is not good, of course, because there are many doubts about the operation of trade unions and those who run the Slovenian Railway System. When we talk about the functioning of the Slovenian Railways system, we need to look at the core of this system, where this inefficiency is actually hidden, this constant loss in the operation of such a large system that, after some professional calculations, could work with half the less employees than the system is now overrun. But it's not the employee's fault, it's the fault of those responsible for the functioning of such a system. And when we see whether the number of employees is the same as in the Slovenian Railways system today, we can only attach this to it when it comes to ensuring safety in rail transport exclusively and only or mainly at the expense of an individual, it is so much more understandable. Unfortunately, instead of dealing with modern technology and technology, there are still many outdated ways to talk about logistics itself, either in passenger transport or in rail infrastructure maintenance. That's the point of the problem. And while the passengers of the Slovenian Railways will be driving in the Gomulka, as one of the discussers said today, which we have already told on the Slovenian Railways, then the Yugoslav Railways, have arrived from Poland in a few years in 1970, and you will not believe, today five of these Gomulks are operating regularly on certain relationships. And if they fail, Slovenian railways cannot carry out the timetable of passenger trains when we are talking about local traffic. When did we actually update it when we were in passenger traffic? The wagons, which are also intended for international transport, are thirty to forty years old. And what can Slovenian railways offer them when they coordinate international timetables? Thirty or forty-year-old cars. And here is the problem, not in organisation, in outdated techniques and technology and in the means that the Slovenian Railways overcome. Ten or 15 years ago, Slovenian railways were updated in the rolling stock of towed and towed vehicles. We got some so-called Siemens trains for passenger traffic, those with tilting techniques called pendolinos, and that's all. And how should the system function today with outdated driving equipment? It is not appropriate, nor is it appropriate, to pay for the services paid by the passenger to be brought here, not to talk about the fulfilment of a timetable that is not on the employee's account, but on the account of an outdated, skeletal system that has not adapted to the actual needs of today. And as long as any government is already dealing with a proposal for a change of law, such as the law we are talking about now, it is not expected that the system will be effective, that the system will cover its costs by its functioning, it will be so long on the plains of the country. When we talk about freight traffic, we need to look at the wider, these flows, the transport flows, which the Minister himself has said many times that we are at an excellent position in the fifth and tenth transport corridors. What does this mean to us if we didn't know how to design common products in freight transport, and not those products that would be for Gorenje or I don't know which company in Slovenia, but those products that would be internationally designed. And what's the problem? The problems are again on vehicles that we simply do not have. Slovenian freight transport railways have several cars to transport, which unfortunately must be rented, and I do not know who, Intereuropi or who, rather than exchanging between other railway administrations within the European Community. And look, here again we come up with a fundamental problem, which is constantly emerging in the system of Slovenian Railways, not to talk about infrastructure that is obsolete. And if you pay little attention, at least at some point in time, the previous government happened that some projects have also begun to be implemented directly when we are talking about improving infrastructure on Slovenian railways. Of course, that's not enough, it's too little if we want the system to work. It was precisely when I was considering a proposal from one of the budget rebalances that disturbed me when the budget proposalr allocated much more resources to advise than to secure the level crossings of the road across the railway. And these are things that we have to open constantly and try to improve a situation that is not good. And if we are in the position that it is possible to improve the system only by changing a certain law, it is large, much too small. And the amendment or adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railways will in no way help to improve any situation on the railways. The Slovenian Railway System will continue to bury itself in red numbers, it will be ineffective, it will not support the Slovenian economy, and it should be, which the co-financing state also ensures, because we have not taken care of the essentials that we would need if we wanted the railway system to function at the time it is located. This calls for a fair reflection in terms of when we will finally be aware that the effectiveness of the system, the functioning of the Slovenian Railways, would be ensured by improving the situation in the field of infrastructure, in the field of basic resources when it comes to the transport of passengers and when it comes to the transport of goods. Here are the most nourished Slovenian railways. There is a problem with the axle load. We're not capable of taking heavy loads. We even purchased locomotives that are not allowed to drive on certain tracks, and Slovenian railways with a thousand kilometres of lines, which we have, of course, are not large. But for traffic flows and flows, they're still quite attractive. And we have to take advantage of that. We will not take advantage of this by constantly amending legislation, but by developing concrete products that will improve the mode and time of transport, either in freight or in passenger transport. If, of course, we want to have full trains in passenger traffic and if we want to transport as many goods as possible, then we will have to update everything I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you very much. My friend Marinič pointed out the real problem of the Slovenian rail system. It is not a problem of a single, broken-down or inter-organised enterprise. In your views, I have listened carefully to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, you said that this would achieve effective business. I am waiting for efficient business, because efficient business is only possible if we have an efficient railway infrastructure. We have heard the parable several times that it is not possible to go 250 kilometers an hour with a Ferrari after the macadam. And at this moment, the situation on Slovenian railway tracks is such that we have the speed of the macadam, 50, 60 kilometers per hour. What will this accomplish? How railways should be successful, how to operate successfully, but if their competitive advantage is reduced as a result. That is why we propose this amendment. We therefore propose this amendment, because by changing the organisation of Slovenian railways at this moment we will not achieve anything. In particular, it is not because, as a colleague of the LDS Group said, we have made an intermediate step. We made a holding company that will be – what? - Strong. What does that mean? This means that these subsidiaries, these three companies that are going to be established, are going to be strongly subordinated to the holding company, which is nothing more than if the company remained single. In fact, it's good, because the third attempt to gather so much power, we'd say, okay, let's go to a final separation, let's separate: passenger ourselves, cargo ourselves, infrastructure for ourselves, and that's not it. Oh, no! So this intermediate rate should be. And here's why we don't think there's any need. First of all, because we think that the core of the problem is this moment in Slovenia that there is no progress in modernising Slovenian railway infrastructure. Therefore, if you will recall, in our parliamentary group, we have already proposed a law on the construction of priority railway sections in Slovenia to give this proposal to modernise 5th and 10th corridors on Slovenian railway tracks a certain acceleration. The new government, the new transport minister, received this concept prepared by the previous government – the development and modernisation of the rail network by 2023, which was estimated at indeed EUR 9 billion in that period and which the transport minister somehow challenged at the beginning of the mandate, believed that this figure would be 4.5 billion, everyone would be happy with it, but then the President of the Government later fixed it and said, of course, it would be 9 billion euros, that was the expert assessment that the current minister did not prepare, but it was prepared by the profession. And another question: single or broken or separate. This has also been mentioned today as a matter of directive. I have already said many times that the directive does not talk about this; the directive leaves this to the Member State to decide, as it thinks it would be best. And we believe that the advantage of a single company in such a small country, after all, the Slovenian Railways are a small company, and can benefit from unity. The current internal organisation prevents the spillover of funds. And if you have a strong holding company and a dependent society, believe me, it's probably as far as transparency is concerned that you don't get God knows how. However, the reorganisation will begin immediately with the new systemisations, the new establishment of directors, teams and Slovenian railways will, as many times as ever, deal primarily with themselves – with staff, directors and so on. I also hear that, at least I read in the media, I have already selected an advisory company to advise Slovenian railways in reorganisation for what large money. It is a pity that the law will be adopted earlier as a consultation in the reorganisation. What are they going to find out? I tell you right now: that he is too busy on Slovenian railways and that we have poor railway infrastructure. I claim that this law, as it is now prepared here, when we establish some intermediate form, some holding, is completely unnecessary, because it will be a strong holding company, that is what you all said. And it wouldn't matter if you were a single society. It doesn't matter. But about this problem, honourable Members and Members, what is happening with the modernisation of the Slovenian Railway Cross, nothing. I would like to know how many new railways have been put into space in these two years. What did the Ministry of Environment and Space do? Has any progress been made? Is there a new route that we can finally get to the beginning of the documentation? That one day, if I say so now, we will see a light at the end of the tunnel that trains will begin to drive 160 kilometers per hour, that passenger traffic can be modern, that we will not drive in outdated vehicles, that freight trains will be able to take enough capacity to transport from port and transit. These are issues that will strengthen the competitiveness of Slovenian railways immediately. Otherwise, all we did was reorganise again, which will mean the occupation of Slovenian railways with ourselves. And I understand that the Ministry is probably trying to make a difference. We made a lot of promises from a strategic partner. Mr Medhorn, who came to Slovenia with a large media response, with the support of the first authority in the executive branch of the government, promised, was promising, it seemed that the matter for the Slovenian Railways would have gone well. But now this story, I don't know, is probably already forgotten. I would expect that if the system is being modernised with a strategic partner, then it will also take place on the basis of one agreement that only then the law will be submitted. So now we are changing something, of course without a strategic partner, unless this strategic partner wanted to buy only part of the company or, now, I will say, part of the future company Freight Transport. That is, if you remember what happened in the previous government, when a referendum was also held on this topic, which was successful at that time, and the Slovenian Railways were to be divided into three companies, but the current director did not hope to do so. Therefore, for the same reasons, the coalition probably does not propose a complete separation and a breakdown of the rail system today, which is also good. Therefore, I say that it is also unnecessary because a single company is stronger and stronger to compete. Dependent companies that will be, will be easier prey or appetite for foreign competition to sing the only vital part, which is freight, will be so much bigger. And it is likely that the next step will be the reintroduction of the Slovenian Railways Act – now until the final division – that someone will buy that vital part. Well, here then, respected colleagues and colleagues, good results will be achieved, freight will be sold to foreigners cheaply, and infrastructure and passenger transport will be achieved at the burdens of the country and in losses. But maybe this script is good for you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Minister Patrick Vlačič spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you, President. If you'll excuse me, it's a little over the rule, but since the debate was over the rules, then I can probably say something.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u171	We are talking about the amendment, but this amendment deletes the complete article 1 and thus essentially the meaning of the law. So you have a permit to the extent I've left the other speakers to. But when I change my mind, I'll tell everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. DN for electrification Pragersko-Hodoš. No one has felt the need until now to submit a proposal to the DN against the Jesenicas, with a reference to Brnik. We've got him. No one felt the need to put forward a proposal for the VAT for the second track for the track which is now single, Prague-Hodoš. We've got him. Przegerska Station, DNP proposal. A whole bunch of DN proposals have been made in our mandate. It's just like one call, you know, that there's no activity. This is the moment of the reconstruction of the Divača-Koper line, the remote control of the main routes is being carried out, the GSM-R project is being implemented, the ERTMS is being carried out on the D-Coridor, the route towards Kočev is being renewed and so on. Actually, it's hard for me to mention it, but I'm just gonna say, the numbers speak for themselves. From 2004-2008, it is clear how much has been invested in railway infrastructure and since we took over the mandate, it is also clear and the numbers speak for themselves. Despite the crisis, the numbers are much higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Since no one else wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today, within half an hour of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 23rd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 15.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u174	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Can I have your attention, please? Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – the second consideration of the Road Bill, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 55. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 65. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 78. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the bill-maker, if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you, President. I suggest that this is done because there are so many amendments that the Rules of Procedure allow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the proposer, as you have heard, proposes that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. (The vote was 73.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. The Council of State will hold its third consideration of the bill on Monday, 20th. 12. 2010, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include amendments to the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Road Traffic Rules in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We're moving on to Article 28. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 28. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 22. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 93. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 93. Explanation of voice. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Brada Roast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you. In the debate on this article and the amendment to this article, I have already said that it is useful for me to support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, by opening the way for us to complement the first paragraph of Article 93 as proposed by our colleagues and at the same time to give us the opportunity to supplement Article 93's ninth paragraph with a provision that would bind cyclists, all of them to take care of their own safety by putting on a reflective waistcoat or having a dress that has reflective straps on them, so that they can be well seen in this regard. In addition, it should be checked at this time, but what about those bikers who have another type of pedals that do not have reflectors because they are too small to even fit their reflectors. However, this is explicitly stated in paragraph 9 of this Article that the wheel must also have reflectors on pedals, which cannot be performed in the case of pedals made on locks because they are too thin and too small. I also call on my coalition colleagues to support this amendment because it would be further corrected in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you. Calls are no longer allowed in explanation of vote, but only explanations of vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 39. (For the vote was 32.)(against 39.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 103. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 103. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 114. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 114. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus I conclude my second reading of the bill.I give the floor to the Government's representative, the bill's proponent, if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, Minister Patrick Vlačič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you, President. I propose that a third hearing be held as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the drafter proposes that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that decision. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 22. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The Council of State will hold its third consideration of the bill on Monday, 20th. 12. 2010, after the end of the vote. The services of the National Assembly will provide an overview of the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Drivers Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We move on to Article 5 and decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 5. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, President. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to inform you that we have drafted a proposal for an amendment to Article 5 for a third hearing on a recess when we have concluded the debate on the laws. Of course, this can then be done and invested only on condition that we accept the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party in second reading, so that we agree to lower the amendment to Article 5. Of course, I am already predicting an amendment to be tabled as a qualified proposal for a third hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u182	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SLS Group shall be given by Jakob Presječnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u183	I agree with what colleague Weber said to support this amendment. I'm sure he's good. In the context of the debate that has taken place under this Act, I also agree that for the third hearing, it will be somewhat adjusted in terms of the debate that was previously held at the plenary session itself. We will support this amendment in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We've concluded by explaining our voice. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 54 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 54. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 96 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 96. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 98. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 98. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. He wants to speak to the government's representative as a bill-maker? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you, President. I propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The Council of State will hold its third consideration of the bill on Monday, 20th. 12. 2010, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda – secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Motor Vehicles in the framework of the regular procedure. We move on to Article 3 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 33 and decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 33. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 50. First, we decide on the first amendment of Article 50 of the SNS Group. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to the same Article under point 3. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to this Article under point 3 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 41. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SNS Group to Article 50. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 40. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As I have already mentioned, the third amendment of the SNS Group is irrelevant and will not be voted on. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 22. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Rail Transport Act. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 18. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railways in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We move on to Article 1 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 26. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Joyful Žerja in terms of European funds. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, the Parliament will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the question of the victory of Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the arbitration agreement and the resolution of the border issue with Croatia. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mr Tanka's mission on the planned reforms. Mr Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Clearly, the word "reform" in this term is one of the most abused words. I asked the President of the Government what reforms the Government still has on the agenda and when it will propose them. And the Prime Minister of the Government replied: "If such an agreement is in the coalition, then we will go ahead with health reform or, as Minister Marusic calls it, upgrading the health system, and that will be a big deal, then we will go into labour market reform or public sector modernisation." Today we have heard that health reform, which is supposed to be the first in line, can be expected for Christmas next year. A few days earlier, the President of the Coalition Party of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia said that the Government had lost its development focus. This is said to be no longer the direction that these development projects, or modernisations, or reforms, would take. In fact, we're wondering if the government has ever had this focus. In view of the need to adopt more reforms, such as tax reform, for the successful functioning of the system, then the judiciary, the agricultural reform, for which the President of the Government should even bind the vote on the confidence, administrative reform and so on, are the answers and concerns that arise in the coalition, the government's self-made mirror. Here I must find that, because of such poor, inefficient, non-reforming government activities, the confused functioning of the Government, we are significantly behind those countries that are driving European development, as well as those that are our competitors in the European space. If this continues, in a year or two we will also be lagging behind those countries of the European Union as regards the standard that came into the European Union behind the Iron Curtain. In his reply, the Prime Minister also said that he welcomed the discussion. I quote, "... I welcome the discussion, I always did, even when I did not lead the government, but I led the opposition party to publicly, loudly discuss the dilemmas that are the dilemmas of our future together, including yours," here he thought us. And now I am also asking you to support this publicly expressed position in response to my parliamentary question to the Prime Minister and to support our request to discuss the Government's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Grill, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Dorian Marušić to the question of Mr Grill's question on the change in the financing of the pharmacy activity. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, the Council of Likar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, to the question of the Council of Likar as regards the strategy for the development of the New Ljubljana Bank d.d. Mr Likar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. The new Ljubljana Bank is our largest bank and is extremely important for the stability of our public financial system. The fact that there are different views on the strategy for future development between owners and between administration, perhaps even between a third party, is certainly not good. This means like two towing horses dragging each other to their own side and the result is nothing or sometimes even to come into the grappa. I therefore propose that you support the request for a debate in the National Assembly on this subject and I propose that you vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly held a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Grill's question on the removal of the toll stations. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to the question of the mission, Alenka Jeraj, concerning the parking on the ground, which was envisaged for the construction of the new National and University Library, the so-called NUK2. Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. I asked the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Golobic, about the land on which NUK 2 was supposed to stand. There's a parking lot right now. I was wondering who's in charge of this parking lot, who's picking up the parking lot, and how much of this stuff comes together. The Minister explained that he owns the land of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and that a contract was concluded with the Municipality of Ljubljana, which manages parking and also collects parking. The minister said he didn't know how much it was, which was pretty weird, because he had to control the contract he made with someone, and also about what the plans were with that land. In view of the fact that the Government is saving money at all ends and places because it does not have money, it would probably make sense for it to obtain funds from this title, namely from parking lots, but not to do so in its name the Municipality of Ljubljana. I appreciate that this is a violation of the state budget and therefore I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Darje Radic to the question of Marjan Bezjak regarding foreign direct investment in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Milan Čadež, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of Milan Čadež, on the use of water funds. Milan Čadež has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I asked the Minister about the allocation of the Water Fund, which was established in 2002 under the Water Act. In the past, the water fund has distributed funds rather untransparently. Many times it has happened that they have not achieved the objective for which they were intended, and it is also important that this fund will run out of €25 million annually. Given that I also researched where the funds went and did not get a clear answer in 2010, and given the current problem that the water infrastructure situation in Slovenia is very poor, I am also convinced that public debate is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Magajne, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Majde Širc to the question of the sale of castles by Andrej Magajne, together with parcels and parks. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Is there any parliamentary group that would like to explain the voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Andrej Magajna has an explanation in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u195	Good-bye! Castles, cultural monuments – nothing to do with them. The country’s decision to sell cultural monuments — six castles and two more in the coming years — surprised many. The sale of castles and state monuments is only something other than the sale of apartments, offices and other diverse buildings. Even in the process, we were somewhat surprised, and we must admit that the real estate sales programmes are rather impractical. The introduction of cadastral municipalities and partial numbers without a real name only blurs out. For example, in Ljubljana, who knows what stands on Brnika 133? We too, let's face it, this thing has taken us by surprise. However, the key question is whether it is possible or allowed to sell state monuments. The Minister answered all the questions, the procedures they had brought, but the key question remains – why they did not first offer themselves to the municipalities or even turn themselves over to the free transfer. Why? Rumor has it there's no one to buy these castles. There's no one to invest in it. Therefore, why not give the municipalities, which, with the help of countries and European funds, would first renovate, implement the necessary remedial measures and use these castles later. They do not necessarily need to be restored after 10 years, not even in 50 years, but they can live, like many cases in Slovenia, when castles also live in a partial rehabilitation and are suitable for further use by local communities and the general public.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-16-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 38. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ziherl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Darje Radic on the question of the mission Milenk Ziherl in connection with the implementation of the project Block 6 Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda – re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda – dealing with the 2009 Environmental Reports in the Republic of Slovenia. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the cut-off of the 25th item of the agenda – dealing with the Reports Mirror to the Government 2010 – Green non-governmental monitor. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2011 As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on Gambling. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Register of Mothers after a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on the Register of Mothers. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since the second amendment to the amended bill has not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 23rd meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m.
