ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Villa Trophynik, Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Franco Juri and Janez Ribič. I invited the President of the Government and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda, representatives of the State Council to the 27th, 28, 29th and 30th items of the agenda, and the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the proposal of the President of the Government for the discharge of the Minister of Environment and Space. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to session 15. 1. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by considering the proposal for the discharge of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, EPA 859/5. You received the proposal by letter of 20. 1. 2010 Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check your voting devices. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider this matter 38.a. on Tuesday 26th. 1. 2010 We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have adopted by reference, and with a follow-up. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 13th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Messengers and Members! We continue with the adjourned 13th session of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Dr. Igor Lukšič, Minister of Education and Sport from 18:00 on; Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice; Samuel Žbogar, Minister of Foreign Affairs; Dr. Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a department responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries; and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world; and Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, from 17:00 onward. You have received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. As we say, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. His question will first be asked by Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! According to the results, the Slovenian economy and the social standard fell across all reasonable borders last year. No one, not at home or abroad, has predicted such a fall. On the contrary. All of us have been judged almost as the only country that will not be plagued by the crisis. It was different. The crisis has affected us more than anyone in the euro area. You said we've had a free fall in economic growth, which means the government hasn't done much. On March 22nd, at the Congress of Social Democrats, you announced a major, almost historic reform for the end of the year. They're gone. The flower Zalokar Orazem, Head of Members of Parliament Zares, was asked publicly at the convention last November, saying when we will get some law from the coalition treaty. So it is awareness that things are not going well, not according to plan at all, even in the coalition. On 20 January this year, due solely to the delay of the Government, which has been putting forward deadlines for the submission of the exit strategy, we also addressed the third SDS anti-crisis package at an extraordinary meeting. You too have been commended by the professional and other public. However, we share our disappointment with many because you left the hall after your opening remarks and no longer took part in the debate on the fundamental issue of that time. Although the government has not made any proposals yet, because your ministers are still fighting creatively, you say, at the same time, you are saying that some of our actions are already being implemented. You also said that consensus policy has more power than authoritarian patterns, but unlike the previous mandate of such an approach. Although we have already presented the third package of measures, you have not invited the SDS to discuss the political and, above all, the substantive consensus. The practice in the previous term was different. I'm asking you: Do you think that your ministerial team will be able, in view of the substantive and political differences, to prepare effective measures to speed up the crisis and reach a broader consensus? The timely measures will no longer be and whatever happens will be too late in this area. The question of whether it will be effective. Then I wonder: How will a consensual approach be taken in practice and what concrete measures have you already taken from our last proposal? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u5	Hello! Mr. President, the House of Honor, Mr. Ambassador! I was obliged to bring the exit strategy to the Slovenian public as a member of the European Council, who assessed that the crisis situation was calming enough for governments to start thinking about the so-called exit strategies. With good luck later from Ecofin, this was early in autumn this year, a warning came to these same governments that they should not be too hasty in the preparation of exit strategies, because there may be forecasts of the end of the crisis - the recession is behind us and the crisis is not premature and it is necessary to wait for restrictions on fiscal and other actions taken by governments. So is ours. Nevertheless, the Slovenian government has decided to draw up an exit strategy and we are among the countries in preparation as far as possible. This exit strategy will begin on Thursday when the Ministry of Finance prepares a stability programme to be sent to the European Commission. The stability programme is also the basis of this exit strategy. We have also decided to adopt a proposal for a minimum wage law and amendments to the Income Act, and then, relying on the support and understanding of all social partners, including trade unions, even though we are now in their hands to speed up the minimum wage law, we are coordinating the other structures of action taken by the Government in February. If the opposition did not decide to convene an extraordinary exit strategy meeting, we participated in the full composition, then, as I announced, we could expect it in February, and this discussion will. The exit strategy needs to be prepared as carefully and as planned, and what is the problem of Slovenian policy not only with these governments, but also with governments in the past, is the ability to implement their own conclusions. Don't let there be too many disappointments here too quickly. If the National Assembly wishes to take this responsibility on its own, it will be able and able to support the Government in certain actions that will be essential for the future of this country, not only for the future that concerns the time of this mandate, and you will have every opportunity to show your courage and determination to make some moves that will lead Slovenia to the average of the European Union. I have very rarely criticized the previous government for some things that I think could have been done better because I know from my own experience that it is not possible to be perfect. However, I can tell you that the exit strategy, as it is ready, is one of the best when compared with the countries that are preparing them, that it is certainly timely, and that I have never missed any deadline, because I said it would be around 90 days before the National Assembly, and I said that in December. Measures should be carefully reconsidered. It is not difficult for me to say this again today, because Minister Miklavčič is with us when you ask about a consensual policy, to state this as an example - I think that the Minister was also in your parliamentary group with the Health Act - more than we are talking about reaching some agreement between the social partners and the political parties, so cooperation with the opposition is also valid in this particular case, and this is not the only one, and we find it more difficult to come up with solutions that would eventually present a consensual whole. Also, the Insurance Act is ready for discussion. For 10 months now, what Minister Miklavčič is trying to do is one key measure, this is a health reform, to prepare, and we find that a bunch of unresolved issues. And my instruction to the Minister is, let's hurry, cut through some dilemmas, as we think at the level of the Government and the profession is right, and then in the debate in Parliament, we will measure whether we have political support or not. This will also be the case with other measures in this area. Although Slovenia experienced a severe decline in GDP and economic activity, some of the people who assessed this phenomenon themselves said that Slovenia was not ready for the shock of the crisis. She wasn't prepared structurally. And now we're just changing the structure. This is difficult and we're counting on your help in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam President. However, if I understand correctly, the exit strategy is a joint project. This is neither a government project nor a individual minister, it is not a coalition project, but it is a joint project. The fact is, Minister Miklavčič has come with one of the measures that have not been completed and for which you do not agree in the coalition. In fact, I am interested in the fact that this is an exit strategy for the assembly, a system of measures when we will reach out to this system of measures, but in such a way that you will come and submit these measures to and discuss to the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. This approach is not a concept either. I assure you that, according to your statements, the Government is seriously delaying, because you are also calling for the work to be accelerated, that the Government is also having difficulty drawing on funds because the Gaspari team has been holding back European funds in this area for a year. The fact is that the measures do not work because credit crunches do not give up and are saved by foreign banks, at least in this area something is happening. One of the measures of this strategy is also the sale of state property. In the most difficult circumstances, under the worst circumstances, this government has prepared to sell state silver and so on. This is a whole set of measures that are not and for which it will probably be difficult to reach agreement if we even know what these measures are and when they will be - they are not. And since ministers are dealing with a lot of things, I'm actually interested in: What are you going to do, say, with the ministers in charge of this exit strategy, and these measures are delaying? .................................................. Tomorrow we will resolve Minister Erjavac, who has nothing to do with these measures, and the other ministers, who are preventing the use of funds and so on, are still doing their job. And I'm actually wondering, what league or what countries are we competing with at this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u9	First of all, it wouldn't do what you say. That's not true. When we took over the Government, the success of drawing on European funds was poor. And Slovenia was a net debtor. Today Slovenia is a net recipient, a balance of 155 million plus. Is there a misunderstanding about this data?Oh, my God! I hope not. Another time. The measures taken were the result of social dialogue and last year it lasted. I said that last year the Government, also because of my affection for such a decision, decided quickly to do everything possible to maintain the social cohesion of the country, so that at the beginning of this year, and, indeed, this half year, it is now decisive, to go into measures that will increase competitiveness. On Wednesday we meet the Strategic Economic Council, end of the week with Slovenian bankers. There are problems we're trying to solve. And not all the solutions we have given have produced the expected fruits. But no government in Europe once gave a recipe to solve this crisis. And neither does ours. However, I think we are doing, as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible, consensually in order to focus our attention on the key thing of this time, regardless of the fact that there are also things that no government does not like. And this is a necessary change for Slovenia to become financially competitive in the long term and therefore also socially solidarity. Ministers are doing their best. I will propose tomorrow to dismiss one of the ministers, because that is what the Court of Auditors has proposed, but this debate will be held tomorrow. As I see it, to the great pleasure of the opposition's colleagues [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u10	Please, peace in the hall! Peace in the last rations!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u11	The government will normally devote itself to the things it owes it to do. And it bothers you that the things that every government is supposed to throw off its axis, because it's dealing with itself, these governments don't throw it off the axis. She's working on it and doing what needs to be done. So your concern for the government is a little too much, as you might say, a little too much. We can take care of ourselves because we know what we need to do. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] worry because we have a responsibility to run this country. [[...]] Don’t worry, any solutions to the problems you mention will slowly come before this National Assembly and you will decide on them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Despite the lack of answers to most of the questions, some of the answers you gave were actually incorrect. We are talking about whether you are talking about whether Slovenia was not ready. Nevertheless, in the previous period, in the previous mandate among the most successful countries in the euro area, with the highest economic growth, with the highest growth in prosperity and standards. It took us a year to be the worst. For as long as we've been ahead, we're behind. As regards the drawing-up of European funds, honourable President, key efforts have been made in the previous mandate. All the basic calls on which you can draw have been made in the previous term. What you could have done last year was not implemented by a call for cohesion funds for municipalities for more than €200 million. Despite all the pressure and effort. And that's probably why the minister resigned. Measures are such a big problem because we are late, so we have taken a very large backlog for European countries in economic growth. We only beat them in the area of unemployment growth. This situation will be extremely difficult to correct in the short term. You said that you have aligned all measures with the Economic Social Council. This is not true because you filed an intervention law on 1 October which, when it was filed, was not harmonised, you corrected it later. You told your colleague Montenegro at the September session that you would try again, another effort to participate in actions and reforms with the opposition. Not until then have you made any effort, and after that, we have already prepared three packages of measures to address the economic crisis. There's never been a communication between [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u14	Dear colleague Tanko, don't argue because the President of the Government can't answer you anymore. I'm asking for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u15	I'll make a proposal. Then, at the Celje Fair, there was a forecast for better legislation for small businesses, in particular with a focus on simplifying the system for calculating contributions and paying taxes. We've proposed this law three times, he's fallen three times. The government didn't file it. This effort has not been made. And it was a public commitment, a public announcement at the opening of the fair in Celje and so on. We are talking about the objective of economic stability, macroeconomic stability and growth. And we're not growing, and we're just accelerating our debt. That there is no efficiency you can also see from the questions raised by coalition partners. Ms. Cveta Zalokar Orazem asked publicly [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u16	Comrade Tanko, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u17	Therefore, I propose, Madam President, that we hold a thorough debate on the response of the President of the Government to my question. I hope your coalition partners support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Franz Pukšič, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u19	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Mr. Borut Pahor! It is difficult to raise the question, since the action of the State Secretary, Andrea Jerina, has been unheard of and into the sky, when, in these times of crisis, by a phone call on 23 October last year, it prevented a €296 million European budget from being reimbursed and, at the same time, blocked the 5th public tender from an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials at almost €300 million. For this claim, we have the Members and Members of Parliament with proof - a letter between Minister Križanič, Gaspari, Gjerkesh and Secretary of State Genoria, who is unfortunately still of an internal confidential nature. I therefore ask you: When are you going to order the 5th public tender for the entire financial period, 2010-2013, as the Minister's announcement suggests that the remainder of previous calls will keep around €90 million available for 2013? I'm asking you, for who? Or is it just for the Ljubljana mayor, whom you so called to serve at every request? If the SVR had awarded a total of EUR 300 million, it would not only have kept it, but also have opened up around 10,000 new jobs throughout the country. Unfortunately, I have a feeling that you are trying to get Slovenia to reach the maximum of your forecasts, that is, 130,000 unemployed. President of the government, not because of the crisis, but because of political games and the inability of individuals in this government! I cannot believe that someone in this government can knowingly harm the Slovenian state, causing even the resignation of the Minister and the country to be blackened in Brussels. Nothing happens. The lady is still in her position. But Minister Gaspari is still silent as a grave. Mrs Jerina has harmed Slovenia in Brussels only because of disappointment at you, Mr President, because I believe you have not arranged for her to serve in the institutions of the European Union. I hear he's going to this place for a political payment, Mr Milan M. Cwickl. You are also responsible for not taking action against the Secretary of State, who has intervened in the area of SVRL's jurisdiction on his own or possibly on the orders of Minister Gaspari. I also allow the possibility that the Government has not suspended the Secretary of State because it has implemented some secret agreement between the ministers of your government, who have very different statuses, and you have different criteria for their work and the lies you tolerate. Because of this and many other actions in your government, there is considerable disorder and confusion, which in the public are causing great uncertainty, not about the fate of your government, but about the fate of our country. The Slovenians and Slovenians are faced with a decisive period when such ministerial raves, Križanič, Golobič, Gaspari, Kresal, Erjavec, will lead to the anti-development of our country for many years to come. Mr President, I ask that you answer exclusively in the Slovenian language in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor. Until now, he has always spoken in Slovenian, and I expect so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u21	Well, I'm afraid you won't understand me in Slovenian either, but I'll do my best. Let me first explain why the delay in the publication of the 5th invitation to tender occurred. In 2007 and 2008, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy issued four public calls for the development of regions for priority guidance. Regional development programmes for 2007/2013 and for development priorities called Development of the Regions. Following an audit of the implementation of the above-mentioned tenders, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation. A number of irregularities were identified: the invitation to tender indicated the general and specific conditions for the allocation of funds, that it was not clear which criteria would be taken into account in the selection of individual operations, then the tendering document SVR did not specify the criteria and use of these. This violated the Regulation implementing the procedures for the use of European Cohesion Policy funds in the Republic of Slovenia during the programming period 2007/2013. Similar findings as the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia have also been made by the Ministry of Finance, the Office for Budgetary Control. He noted that calls for proposals and tender documents did not contain sufficiently precise criteria for selecting operations and that the Ministry also recommended certain improvements that the SVR takes into account in the preparation of the new instrument. Thus, the SVR could not publish the call you are asking for on the basis of the same conditions as the practice in the first four such calls in previous mandates. It had to prepare new solutions and new measures coordinated with the European Commission. A new regulation on the allocation of regional incentives was adopted in December last year. The result of these activities will be the short implementation of a new instrument, a public call that allows full compliance with all national and European rules governing the use of European Community funds in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear fellow Member! I hope I'm making myself clear enough. The local government service will then publish a public call for proposals for co-financing of operations under Priority Directions, Regional Development Programmes and Development Priorities for the development of the regions on 29 January this week. It is not possible to talk about the priceless damage mentioned by the delay in the invitation to tender. The call for the preparation of the implementation plans for the 2010/2012 regional development programmes was launched in June 2009, so that the regions and their municipalities could approach the preparation and selection of projects to be included in the implementation plan, which is the basis for the implementation of the call. At the same time, the municipalities are also aware of the fact that the eligible costs in preparing the documentation and preparatory work relating to the selected projects can be applied backwards, from 1 to 1. 1st of 2009. This call will allocate €203 million to co-financing the operations included in the regional development programmes implementation plans and endorsed by the Council of the Regions in the following areas: economic and educational infrastructure, environmental infrastructure, urban development, public infrastructure in areas with special security regimes and in tourist areas and social infrastructure. Once again, once the European Commission and I have aligned the terms of the call, we have also significantly improved the use of European funds. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The European Union budget, once again, when Slovenia created a net surplus of EUR 156 million in this financial perspective for the first time in 2009, to be more precise. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u22	Mr. Puksic, would you like to complete the response of the Prime Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr President, don't worry if I understand or not. May you be concerned whether you understand 100,000 who are unemployed and those who live on the edge of social life. Let that be your concern. As far as Mrs. Jerina's concerned, the next. The lady was at SVLR at work. There she prepared everything for four invitations, I don't know, two or how long she'd been. Then she went to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors found that what she was doing in the previous office did not comply with the legislation. And then she went to Secretary of State to Minister Gaspari, where immediately after you took over the government, in December 2008, you had already made a program to transfer all operational programmes from SVLR to Minister Gaspari. In the end, it became clear that none of what you were saying was actually wrong. Mr President of the Government, the following is wrong. The positive effects you're talking about when you come back from Brussels - it's true. However, the Government, the previous government, within one year, ended negotiations with the European Community in 2007, by the time it was handed over by the authorities, had made four calls. And she signed off on about a billion and a half. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Mr President, why don't you say here today in the National Assembly, not only have you signed contracts for projects, for how long did your government in 2009, in one year, call for funds? As you know, for the 4.2 billion euro available by the 2013 period, at least 3 billion already signed contracts should be available today. Tell me, how many do we have? I'm asking you, what are you going to do? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] With the railway infrastructure development programme, where you have EUR 400 million? [[...]] Will you ask the European Commission to turn this into another programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Does Prime Minister Borut Pahor want to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u25	A fellow Member asked some of the same questions. I'll try. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u26	Only to what is referred to in the request to supplement the answer. You don't have to answer any additional questions about railways.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u27	The fact is that four calls for regional development in 2007 and 2008 have been made for illegality identified by the competent institutions. That is why the money from the European Union did not come for these purposes. This government has worked very hard with the European Commission to find a solution that has enabled the European Commission to start repaying funds at the end of 2009. The financial flow did not reach the end of 2009, instead of running in 2007. Let me tell you that we have invested in reducing the barriers that Slovenia is having to draw on European funds and we are trying to remove them as best we can. You must know that the European Commission has a licensed procedure. We cannot risk substantially changing this procedure now in these critical times because it would require a new licence. We are working within the established framework to draw on European funds as successfully as possible. You know that as an MP and as a mayor. And there are some problems. We need to be careful not to go into any programmes that the European Commission will not give back. I don't want to take this responsibility, nor does anyone else. And sometimes you double-check a decision. It also takes some time, but we need to be careful because it is a huge asset, as you mentioned at the end. I think we have managed to make a breakthrough in drawing on European funds. And since it is already statistically impossible that within one year and two months of your mandate the government would not be able to do anything good, at least some thing that is evident progress, gather so much strength and courage and say, ok. I apologize if any of the words were not Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much. You want procedural? Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr President, it's simply not what you said. Mrs. Jerinova is on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u30	Dear colleague Pukišč, procedural proposal, without controversy with the President of the Government, he can no longer answer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u31	You can leave me alone for those two minutes I have at my disposal. Of course, I'll make a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u32	Please stick to the procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u33	to discuss the issue I have raised with the President of the Government. [[...]] However, I must make it perfectly clear that the answer by the President of the Government is not correct. Mr. President, read your letter. I told you, Members and Members, we have a letter as material evidence. It has been demonstrated that on 23 October everything was explained with the European Community, nothing was wrong. However, when everything was explained when the ministers agreed to this, the Secretary of State took the phone and called Brussels and said, "What the ministers told you is not valid, it is not true, we will send you something else". Mr. President, this is a scandal! It's a scandal that took place in the government. You say something good. Yeah. We've been begging for a year, so to speak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u34	Mr Pukšič, please, serious controversy, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u35	When there was no invitation to tender, the 5th invitation to tender that this invitation to tender should now be made to the end. [[...]] We're in the middle of an area. Until 2013, not until 2012. Who are you "sparting" for 90 million euros? Who do you have leftovers for? When are you going to make this call? However, the congregations must then make from projects to executions, etc. And the President, I propose that we make the exchange of inflows that have reached 2004 for the period 2004/2006 and for all three operational programmes from the cohesion programme, that is, for those 4.2 billion, and in particular how many calls have you made to say in the National Assembly, by which time will you bring all the cohesion programmes to the tenders. I therefore propose that we discuss this in the National Assembly, because this will be of exclusive benefit to this country. It's money in Brussels. The previous government has negotiated from 5.1 billion, we are paying 3 billion, that is, 2 billion plus, positive, and of course only if we have programs. There are programs, but if there are calls for these funds to be used, they won't. However, if you see that he is not going anywhere, suggest to the European Commission that he redirect them to those projects, to those operational programmes that we can use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Member Franz Puksic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 16 January 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Victory of Jelinčič Plmeniti, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you so much and thank you so much for saying good-bye to everyone! Mrs. Zorica Trstenjak is in article 27. 11. 2009 also stated that arbitration is not in a hurry, that the matter can be settled slowly and that the signature of the arbitration agreement was a great foolishness from a legal and state point of view. Of course, Mrs Trstenjak's reasoning was based on something else. Perhaps it was also published in Stuttgart in 1964 and then banned under the Communist government, where there is also a map of Slovenia's national territory. She also probably based her thoughts on the book "Croation Struggle for Freedom and Statehood", which also appeared abroad, in Argentina in 1955 in Ustasha's immigration, where he also drew a different map of Croatia. In one case, our former regime banned this book because it was shown where the Slovenian national territory was, which was then forbidden to speak, and another because it was oral propaganda. And yet there are many truths in it. These are the truths the Slovenian government does not want to be aware of. And these so-called international independent experts, of course, do what the Government requires. And since Mrs Zorica Trstenjak didn't blow in the government horn, I found out that I was supposed to personally dissuade her, that I would say very gently, and then something would happen that I wanted to know how much she held. On Friday, 18.12.2009, on the basis of your order, Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, was asked to call off the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, Prof. Verica Trstenjak. My Greek friends called me and asked me what country it was, whether we had returned to the Communist dictatorship, that the President would determine who he might be and who should not be in this court and perform his duties. That's why I really want to know what's on it. Not only because of me, but also because I can tell my colleagues in international communities and organisations in Europe what's really going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u39	What you're saying isn't true. Never, without remembering, have I punished anyone for a different opinion from my political sanction. It is only because of the opinion which the honourable lady has the right to make publicly known, that I would call on her employer, the President of the Court of Auditors, to discharge her from her post. Would you, Comrade Jelinčič, believe that you would be willing to do something like this? It is true that my lady and I met, by chance, and at her initiative, we opened this debate where I told her that I disagreed with her views. Someone who criticizes me will also be able to accept criticism from my side at my expense. This is an integral part of a democratic political culture. However, because of the different positions we have, it takes sanctions even so far as someone working in the European Court of Auditors loses his job because of this - this does not come to my mind. How is it possible for someone else to come to their senses?Oh, my God! So what you're saying is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the response of the Prime Minister? Please, Mrs. Victory the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. President! So your answer told me that Mr Zalar appeared to have done this on his own. Actually, my friends in Greece asked me what we were going to do in this country. How can we allow ourselves to go through such matters when it is also impossible for any state to demand that anyone be called off from the Court of Justice of the European Communities? And it's Mrs. Trstenjak who thinks differently and who's a doctor of law, while there's a gentleman representing himself as a professor, he's not a professor, and there's a doctor representing himself as a doctor. At the same time, you have here a whole range of international legal experts who do what you simply say. Media control is practically perfect, sometimes you miss an article like that, and then, of course, there's fire in the roof. There are always some locusts who honk at the same horn as the horn of the Slovenian government, which honks wrong. The fact is that there are even various Šmidovniks here, a whole range of FDVs, who have now become beautiful mad experts on the international issue, even biologists are now experts on international issues. I think that's terrible. And in this way, to pursue international and state policy is very bad. I think it's high time you cut such a thought and start to base your decisions and understanding on historical facts, which these great legal experts who once blew into the horn of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia are going to blow into yours in three years. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They won't be able to tell. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u43	One thing seems important to me, although it is not necessarily that we have the same position in this regard. The Slovenian government has a president who does not sanction someone who thinks otherwise. I know that there are different opinions on whether the arbitration agreement for Slovenia is appropriate or not. And he is also entitled to the right of Professor Rubber. And I have the right to defend it because I believe it is good for our national benefit. You were talking about media surveillance, if I understand correctly. Please, let's be honest about this. If this is the case, the journalists and editors themselves will say the most honestly and honestly. Is that true or not? If that's the case, they'll come by and say that. I don't put any pressure on the editors and the press. I have always considered freedom of the media as an oil pillar of democracy, and even as much power as possible, in my office I care that freedom of the press is as strong as possible, no matter how many things I hear about myself, right or wrong, real or untrue. It seems to me that it is increasingly important that I endure this, because those who cannot endure the heat should not go into the kitchen, because this belongs to my mission. For me, freedom of the media, i.e. no political control, is more important than whether it now contributes to the success of government policy or not. Only the fact that we have freedom of the media, freedom of the press, is the success of a time when we have responsibility for power right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Well, defending is one thing, blackmailing is another. As for freedom of the media and press freedom in Slovenia, we see that we have been ranked on international scales significantly lower than we did a year ago and even lower significantly than two years ago, and this scale is probably still falling, and we are always going down. And I have already asked the question of Parliament or the Slovenian National Party on media freedom and pressure on the media, because journalists have complained to me about how they can, what they can and cannot do. And that's why I think that when you say that journalists should be trusted, I believed them, so I asked the question. You're saying something else. The press will probably tell us in a while what it was like today, and a month ago, a few months from now. However, I think that the matter is too hot to be left to pass, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly vote on this whole set of discussions, because it is not the only case of pressure on a certain person in a particular place of work. Even in the academic spheres, when pressure is to be put on someone’s writing, or when asked how to write, his account will be paid and settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Procedurally then as soon as I read the conclusion. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2010, in the framework of the votes. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u47	Mr President, I hope you won't stop me. When Mr President of the Government says they have no effect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u49	Doves in Del are listed as candidates [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I have to take your word for it. Thank you very much. The question to Prime Minister Borut Pahor will be posed by mag. Borut Saiovic, Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Assembly, this country, ministers and ministers, and, last but not least, all those who listen to us, especially those on the balcony and at home in front of the hosts, deserve a positive initiative, a positive news. Ours from the Liberal Democracy Club refers to the protected area of Škocjanska Cave Park, the only monument in Slovenia that is listed on Unesco's heritage. That this is something special, we can be sure that it is also evidence that there is only one person in the whole wide world. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u52	May I have peace in the hall? Go ahead, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That only three underground objects are included in Unesco's heritage in the entire wider world, and it is not likely, therefore, that between 7,000 extraordinary underground objects we have Slovenia and Slovenia, it deserves a special place and treatment. Thus writes Albin Debevc, director of the Park of Škocjanska Cave: "Nature, as the world's greatest architect on a piece of Slovenia called Kras, has left unique, wonderful patterns of the surface and underground world, which have been included in the list of world heritage because of its exceptional beauty, size and diversity." Last week we received a letter from the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art from Members and Members, probably also from the Government, where the National Assembly warns and asks for further protection of this unique monument, which is listed on the World Heritage List, because the danger is that the situation would weaken so that the Scottish Caves could be deleted from the list of heritage due mainly to unharmonised and inappropriate interventions, particularly in the municipality of Divača. This certainly wouldn't be good for Slovenia. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware of the sensitivity of this extremely beautiful, important area. We know that you feel good about him, that you know him well, and that you will do everything you can to protect him. Let us also pour pure wine immediately - we support the development of the municipality of Divac, as well as all the individual Kraša municipalities, but we believe that, as regards infrastructure interventions in this specific, sensitive area, we need to have a single national strategy that will not only cover individual municipalities and individual parks, but the whole Kraša area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u55	Your Honor! I welcome the initiatives of civil society and the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, which warn, as you yourself did in your performance, that in planning spatial arrangements, both national and local, we must follow the principles of sustainable spatial development, which, taking into account the development and protection aspect of spatial planning, can provide optimal solutions for a given space. The fact is that in both the wider area of Crassus and the immediate vicinity of Škocjanska Cave Park, a number of interventions are planned at the level of the municipality and the country, which may not be problematic for each other, but can all together pose a potential threat to this area. I am informed that some of the envisaged interventions are already being carried out, some of the interventions are included in spatial acts, and some are only ideal designs. The proposers or carriers of the envisaged interventions shall be at both local and national level. Within the framework of spatial planning legislation, the Government and the competent ministries have a number of legal instruments that can promote public interest in the area of space regulation. Since the end of 2007, we also have a strategy for the protection of cultural heritage and natural values in the Republic of Slovenia, which commits all departments, especially the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Environment and Space, to a concerted and active effort to implement it. In a sensitive area such as the wider area of Crassus, there is certainly a common, unified strategy of intervention into a space that would guide the specific spatial decisions of all municipalities in the area. Development plans at both the national and local levels would be, as they themselves are warned, I am grateful to you for the warning, to be examined in terms of an integrated approach and to limit the negative impacts in the wider area of Crassus, to verify their sustainability and to place them in space, if necessary or otherwise. As I am aware, the Ministry of the Environment is already preparing government material in which it will propose binding conclusions for various departments and, if necessary, this will also come before the National Assembly. Since you've stayed with me, if you'll allow me two more minutes, and since you've initially spoken something that allows me to answer that, allow me to say the following. You told the introductions that somehow good news in politics was allowed. Look, I think that we are all together, as a policy with different responsibilities, we as a Government, with much greater responsibilities than you who are in opposition, but the political elite of this country, who, at the most sensitive time, decides after independence on our common destiny. I never claimed that this team was working without a mistake and without any time delay, delay, and so on. However, I would like to assure you that we are trying to work for the common good. We have no partisan, special or other interests to guide us to our ministerial work or me in the work of the President of the Government. We are trying to create an atmosphere in which cooperation, as the newly called archbishop said yesterday, will prevail over the selfish conduct of an individual. I hope that the reference in this sense is not wrong. This is an important part of civil society that needs to be given its attention. What I'm saying is that the government is doing its best to cooperate and to strengthen this atmosphere, so that we can see, in everything we're doing, even good things, both to you when you criticize us, as we do to us, when we try to act for the interests of this country, so that it will prevail here and there slowly. If, and to the extent that we are able to create one positive atmosphere in this country, where there will be little more confidence, little more respect, little more respect for those who think otherwise, which we will not necessarily disqualify as a result of this, then we together as a political elite have the opportunity to really turn the wheel on the development of this country significantly forward and fall into the top of the developed world. This cooperation is sincere on our part. I hope that this year, in 2010, we will make this decisive move. I certainly agree with you, on the one hand and on the other. This year is a crucial year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Do you want a proposal to complete the answer? Something has already been said. Please, Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government! I must say that I am certainly as happy as most Slovenes with your reply that you will be particularly interested in this wonderful protected end of Slovenia, Slovenian Kras, with the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is indeed a specific place where, on the transport strategic position and on the other hand, the natural heritage was extremely rich on this site, so of course to the public and I present to you, for understanding, 18 projects that wanted to happen on this piece. I am sure that most of them can be carefully, carefully, conscientiously placed in the space, but this will need to be discussed and discussed many times, because I am sure that Unesc's legacy is a single town. The space for stories, such as Gabrk airport, crafts, service manufacturing area, golf course, various factory depots, of course, can be found at many other locations in Slovenia, which are not as important from a natural and cultural point of view as national historical aspects, but we will certainly be sure that the entire ministerial assembly, as well as the country as Members, is particularly careful when we place one of the pipelines, pipelines, highways and also the needed railway track in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u59	The Scottish caves are also a first-class tourist attraction. I mention this because we have decided after the last consultation with representatives of the tourism economy to organise a special thematic theme on the development of tourism in Slovenia in spring, to determine whether we have one philosophy of tourism, what a tourist destination - Slovenia in fact, we want to offer on a global tourist map, that all ministries prepare the measures that are necessary, that we have one consistent strategy of action and that we also need to see tourism today as green tourism, certainly put into this concept of sustainable development. That's why I'm happy to hear your questions. All these things need to be looked at from a comprehensive perspective. So we are continuing some good practice introduced by the previous government, these are visits to the regions. We are introducing a new practice, these are thematic meetings of the Government. I hope that this tourism issue will be achieved to the extent that the income from tourism in gross domestic product will increase significantly in the coming years. We are now in a critical position to do so. And mentioning the Scottish caves as pearls, but such pearls are everywhere in Slovenia, is fitting in this respect to remember what we really want with a natural heritage that is not given to us, but is only borrowed from our children.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 11th, 12th meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič, will answer the question of Zvonk Laha regarding co-financing of investments in primary education and pre-school education. Please, Minister Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u61	President, President, Honourable Member, Members, fellow Members. Apologize first for your absence. My fellow Member and I have also had oral contact several times. He also received a written reply, but the procedure also requires an oral response. Even during the Minister's ministry, Comrade Beast, the Ministry decided to tender under the old law. The Law on the Financing of Municipalities 1.a was adopted. 6. 2008, entered into force 24. 6. 2008 So that was the time when the invitation to tender at the Ministry of Education was before publication and it was then necessary to decide whether to tender under the old law or under the new law. So the invitation was made under the old law even during the time of Minister Beast. Those admitted to the invitation to tender were, of course, accepted under the previous conditions, so that there was no need to repeat the invitation to tender. The legal framework, which sets out the extent of co-financing in the area of pre-school education and primary school, has been financially unsustainable and impracticable, which the Ministry of Education has been pointing out since autumn 2008. I also pointed to this problem at this assembly. The call for tender was made at that time correctly, with the tender criteria, and can be implemented taking into account the equality of all selected projects. Therefore, it is not acceptable to modify the treatment of individual projects. The only alternative would be to relieve the entire call for proposals, which would have unnecessary consequences for all those who would also make the investment by means smaller than those provided for under the Community Financing Act. Another question was: Why did the Ministry not implement the invitation to tender in 2009 and will both calls be made in 2010, i.e. for primary schools and pre-school education? In 2010, the Ministry of Education will implement only one call, with a priority criterion for co-financing investment in preschool education. The number of projects already selected in this call in 2008 before the 2008 elections, i.e. the number of projects already selected and co-financed in the field of primary school investment, does not allow new projects at the initial level of the budget and on the basis of the existing co-financing programme. The transfer of funds to co-financing of pre-school education does not allow a call for co-financing of investments in primary schools until 2011. This is also why there was no invitation to tender in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The theme of investment in preschool education and primary school is very attractive. You'll probably get along on your own. I received an answer to my written question at the end of October, but I was not satisfied with it, because the information that is in here does not indicate an immediate solution to the problem in this area. But I'm not gonna talk about numbers because I don't have enough time. I would say that your tender-based programme, otherwise you have the situation as it is, on the basis of the invitation to tender. At the Ministry, however, you do not have a review of the situation of the needs of the congregations. Not all congregations respond to calls, even though they have needs. Why? Because they have greater needs in other areas, as well as greater co-financing of investments in other areas that are more important. Therefore, the municipality does not prepare projects. Your vision, however, is that it should be child care, child involvement 100% and also free of charge. If there's so much co-financing from the Ministry of Education and Sport as you now have, I think there's going to be even less investment and no spending, and the kids are going to stay out of kindergarten. Last year, 4 thousand more children were born than before, and these children will knock on the door of kindergartens. Solution, to make excuses [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] That there's no money, it's not real. [[...]] In addition, you have deceived certain congregations with the criteria they must be, and then the money was not from anywhere, neither can the congregation, nor the ministry. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u64	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you. Thank you, too, for this continuation of the discussion. One of the priorities, my personal and the Ministry, is to regulate kindergartens. At the previous session, I could not answer that question because I was visiting Vienna. The city of Vienna has provided an additional €100 million for kindergartens this year. I also looked at one of their kindergartens, which is built together with primary school, and their kindergarten costs 800 euros to the child. We have an average of 433. The standard is very high. It is appropriate that the standard of education, protection and educational activities in kindergartens is very high. This is because the city of Vienna decided on this measure during the crisis. This is a matter of priority, and I agree with all those who think we are giving too little for primary and state-level schools. I agree that we are giving too little, in particular we are giving too little to achieve the goal that I have advocated here in the National Assembly as soon as possible, as well as publicly so that as soon as possible, young people who have small children who are dealing with a housing problem and who, as a rule, also have fixed-term services to relieve these young people the most. So that's what we agree on. About the examination. The Investment Service works to review the needs of kindergartens and the state of kindergartens and primary schools throughout Slovenia. I'm sure they'll do it within two to three months, they've already exceeded the hands they set themselves and they've received them from the minister. Again, however, the problem is that we have problems with employed people or with those who are not employed, and we could help with this task. This thing's gonna be done. And I think you're making the right impression that this country should have done it by now. The next issue is the invitation to tender. I think it is unheard of that, as in some congregations, they are still in play in 1999, and so far this school has not been built. Why? Because we allow all those who have wishes to apply, not those who already have a building permit, for example. And that's why we have a problem in the budget and so on. We are trying to recover this condition and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm happy to hear your answer. Although I was not happy at the previous session when you did not answer this question, I am glad that you were in Vienna while you were looking outside at what it looks like to be able to walk by their example, because there will be a need for funds for this, and wherever it will be necessary to take it from somewhere. We have also proposed that, in an agreement on the average that has not yet been concluded, we should try to redistribute energy efficiency resources, because all of these facilities must be built in accordance with the Regulation and must be built in accordance with this Regulation. I would therefore ask that we continue to pursue these activities in accordance with these arrangements, because, in view of the way in which the Ministry of the Economy has embarked on the use of these funds, I do not think they will be usefully used. And you yourself said how they think in Austria that in times of crisis it is necessary to stimulate construction and build public buildings, because that is not how it works and that something useful is done. I would therefore ask that, together with the SVR and the Ministry of Finance, this agreement and certain funds be redistributed to the MSS and that the construction of primary schools and kindergartens be accelerated. In view of the fact that the problem is so acute, I would suggest that, in accordance with Rule 246a of the Rules of Procedure, a broader discussion be held on this issue, which will, I think, help not only our efforts but also your efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture and Sport to his question of the Member of Parliament, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 26 January, in the framework of the votes. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space, will answer the questions of the Council of Likar concerning the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. The question was why the cost of operating the Housing Fund had increased, in particular, to the wage line. I can say that EUR 1.22 million was foreseen for the payment of salaries and other staff costs and employers' contributions to social security for 2009. The increase is solely for the elimination of wage imbalances and the alignment of wage levels with the applicable legislation. The expected expenditure in 2009 was EUR 1.28 million. In 2008, as you know, a reform of the payroll system was adopted, which provided for the harmonisation and elimination of wage imbalances between employees. Taking into account the legal provisions and regulations, the funds for payment of salaries, other expenditure and contributions have increased to a legal extent. For operating costs, EUR 5.2 million was planned in 2009, with a rebalancing estimate of an increase to EUR 5.4 million. It is true that the activities of the Housing Fund in 2009 were not what we expected, but it is true that a number of new projects are being opened in the following year or this year 2010 that will require a special and additional engagement of the employees of the Republic Housing Fund. It is about starting with activities for the neighbourhood of the Hill, it is the first phase - 400 apartments, then the second phase foresees 200 apartments, then we are also going to start with projects to build student apartments, so that in 2010 the activities of the housing fund will be in line with our plans and programmes. With regard to this question, I can only say this: this increase is the result of a new pay reform and the result of the elimination of imbalances in public servants.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, Mr. Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister and other fellow Members and Members of Parliament! My question was, in particular, that the revenues in the fund's income rebalancing were 81.5% higher than planned, so they increased to EUR 23.8 million and housing loans decreased by 98% to only EUR 0.9 million. Non-profit housing funds decreased by 37% to total EUR 4.78 million and housing for the market by 76.3%. The Fund's operating costs increased by 3.8% and, as it is said, 4.9%. In order to increase the cost of wages, we have heard the Minister's reasoning, but I am still curious: Why has there actually been such a drastic reduction in the volume of business? What is the cause of this, although, of course, the wages have remained the same for known reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you for asking. I have to say that the creditworthiness of the population has fallen dramatically, so we also have problems, not only in the sense that people no longer decide to buy apartments and therefore also for housing loans, but something even worse is happening to us. Those who have already entered into loans or housing contracts for the purchase of dwellings also cancel contracts, which means that they are insolvent because both family members are insolvent because, for example, they have lost their job. It is an additional complication because we have in these housing contracts a provision that, if the contract is not implemented, the ara will remain a residential fund. This ara can also amount to 10, 15, 20 thousand euros. And in fact, this money for the one who breaks up, cancels the contract, is lost. That is why we immediately sought solutions in the supervisory council of the Republic Housing Fund to prevent such a situation. And we offer two options. The first is that, for example, that ara is considered a rental for the one who wanted to buy this apartment but does not have the means to pay the loan to be recognised in the form of a rent at that time. To also give him the possibility that if his financial situation improves, that he becomes creditable again, we can convert this contract into a loan agreement and pay back all of this money and become the owner of this apartment. We have received many letters about the fact that they are incompetent, unable to pay, and that the misery would be worse, we would also lose that ara, the savings they made in concluding such a contract. Besides, I have to say that this market is in a bad place, that the housing fund has 300 apartments empty, for example, Jesenice, Kranj, that I do not list all cities except in Ljubljana. And here we are in agreement with the congregations to offer these apartments through their municipal invitation to tender as nonprofit apartments, that is to say a nonprofit rent. And all that doesn't mean our people [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] they do not work in the housing fund, but have other obligations with these contracts which they cancel, then with these discussions with the municipal structures for renting a non-profit [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space, will answer Mr Miran Györek's question regarding the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u75	I thank the Member for the question. You know that the problem of gas terminals has been dealt with by Slovenia for some time now. In 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded a rejection position to the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška and Žavaje. I must say that we have had several discussions at technical level and also at ministerial level regarding the placement of these two gas terminals. It's one that's going to be on the coast in Zavaja and one that's off-shore, that's what it's called in the middle of the Gulf of Markets. Slovenia has also conducted one study with the most eminent institutions, such as the National Institute of Biology, the Faculty of Chemistry, the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, the Institute of Joseph Stefan, where they have reviewed all these matters and have found that the installation of these two pipelines is inadequate to have cross-border negative environmental impacts. On this basis, we requested the full documentation at technical level, you know that there was one complication, because they did not provide us with the most essential documentation, it is the so-called ISPRO where the Italian Environmental Impact Assessment Institute identifies what the installation of such gas terminals would mean. After the meeting I had with the Minister, I think last November, we also soon received this additional documentation, which is 1500 pages thick documentation. Nevertheless, we estimate that this project has negative cross-border environmental impacts. That is why we have already engaged a group of lawyers who are preparing everything necessary to make use of all necessary legal means to enforce Slovenian positions. Let me say about the "offshore" terminal, this is the one that is foreseen in the middle of the Gulf of Markets, this even interferes with the Slovenian territorial area. There is a 1,400-metre security belt under the law and this belt extends also to our territorial area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately made a protest note. We estimate that it is completely unacceptable. With regard to the problems related to the cross-border assessment procedure and the final decision for Zavalje, we have also informed the European Commission in a comprehensive letter and proposed a trilateral meeting. This is said by the Commission, Slovenia and Italy, to avoid bringing an action before a competent court. I can say that, at our initiative, the European Commission has also set up a meeting at technical level. This is said by the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Italy and the Commission, for 26. 1. 2010 Here Slovenia is very active. I also made it very clear to the Minister of the Environment when she visited Slovenia that we do not support this project because we are convinced that it causes negative cross-border environmental impacts. I told her that we would use all legal means to prevent the installation and construction of this project. I must say, there must be good arguments, good evidence. I think that our institutions, which I have mentioned, have given the right argument that we can also be successful if there is a lawsuit before the competent European Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, I must say that you have surprised me a little bit that I am quite pleased with your answer, because you have actually answered the question that I have raised. Nevertheless, I would like to point out something else about professional salaries. As you said, you have already obtained these opinions at the National Institute of Biology, at the Piran Marine-Biological Station and that they all show negative cross-border impacts, which is also the biggest problem. I wonder: Are you also familiar with possible new technologies that could come as an argument in negotiations or talks? I am thinking about LNG SMART Vaporisation process, which exists and excludes terminals at sea and also closed systems technology is excluded because air heat is being used and therefore has a significantly less harmful impact on the sea. Both the location and the technology used are at issue. However, there are indisputable dangers or environmental consequences, as I stated in the first part, environmental degradation and so on, not to mention again, and all threats to traditional activities: tourism, fisheries and so on. So I would still ask you: What are the chances of a successful breakup? What is your sense of failure or failure, since, of course, we will also have to continue our actions in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u78	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u79	A key argument is whether there are cross-border negative environmental impacts regardless of technology. If this exists, it may be the best technology, but if these effects that are harmful to nature are harmful to health, then we don't have to agree to it here. That's what's important. And based on the analysis of our institutions, the technology envisaged there has negative cross-border environmental impacts on our nature, on the state of our sea and also on human health. For us, the main objective is not to have these negative impacts. However, given my knowledge of the fact that I have been taught by experts, they say that the location itself is so inappropriate that it is probably also difficult to ensure with the most modern technology that there are no negative cross-border impacts. In particular, this applies to this "off-shore" terminal, which even interferes with the security area of our territorial waters, which is completely unchanged. What fate, I can hardly predict, depends on how Italy will act, but it is obvious that the European Commission is aware that this is a serious environmental problem, otherwise it would not convene this meeting at technical level. We want to solve this in a calm, balanced way, I think Italy has some other options, some other locations. And I hope there's some kind of agreement here. If not, we will probably be forced to use legal remedies, but it is true that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides. It is also true that we have engaged the best lawyers who are preparing all the necessary arguments, because it would be very irresponsible for the Slovenian Government to take a decision to bring an action, to file an action with the European Court of Justice and then to lose such an action. We must not afford this, and it is therefore necessary to prepare this very precisely and also to make a very precise argument as to what are the impacts resulting from negative environmental cross-border impacts.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Miran Györek, would you like a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u81	Of course, Mr. Vice President. Obviously, we are all aware of the gravity of the problem or the open question. I think that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if any question or initiative deserves to be addressed in the National Assembly, this is probably an initiative or a question. Above all, given that there is a reasonable suspicion that the government is negotiating secretly behind closed doors, and the interest of capital has reached that limit of destructive madness that no one believes is even possible, it is a total environmental disaster if it comes to this. Not to mention other chances that this will happen, because everything points in this direction that things are agreed here in fact, if I say so in jargon, "paint" the people, calms the public and the excitement, and things will probably not be prevented. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that colleagues and colleagues decide, irrespective of coalition or opposition affiliations, that this matter be thoroughly processed in this House and that we also give further instructions to prevent such a disaster. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Györek's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space to his question of the Member of Parliament will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space, will answer Mrs Renate Brunskole's questions regarding compliance with the rules on methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u83	Here, I'm back in my place. The microphone's working. I still have to react. I must say, no one negotiates secretly on behalf of the government, not me. I have told you very precisely that the main key argument is that if negative cross-border environmental impacts are involved, there will be no project or we will use all legal remedies. And I reject such insinuations. As far as the question of Ambassador Renata Brunskole is concerned, I will read it because it is a more technical question. The Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal public environmental economic services is governed by the three most vital public services of local importance. The public service provider will only prepare a new price proposal if real reasons are given or the conditions of the public service are changed. However, the public service provider will not be able to implement the new price without the consent of the local community or without proof that it fulfils all the environmental objectives required in the public service. The main emphasis on the implementation of the new Regulation is that the price under the new Regulation must be designed to cover all the necessary costs for the performance of the individual public service and, at the same time, to meet the requirements of the environmental objectives set out in the implementation of the public service. An important novelty in pricing under the new regulation is that the price is formed on the so-called fixed part representing depreciation costs and the variable part representing the costs of public service delivery The funds collected for depreciation are the revenue of the municipality's budget and are intended exclusively for infrastructure restoration. These funds will in future represent an important financial source for the municipalities for the regular and investment maintenance of municipal infrastructure. The current state of accounting for depreciation in most municipalities is not regulated in a prescribed manner. Moreover, existing prices often do not cover the costs of depreciation and thus municipal infrastructure is not being restored or in most cases poor, which is not good for the good of the host. Prices are already being applied under the new rule. We note most of the problems with the poorly prepared roles, in particular in the part relating to the achievement of environmental objectives. Public service providers are faced with inadequate records and catastrophe infrastructures and inadequate organisational forms of public service. The Ministry shall assist municipalities and public service providers in the examination of applications and in the issuance of positive expert opinions, and shall remove any administrative obstacles. The fact is that a more transparent system of functioning of public services in the field of environmental protection is being established by implementing the new rules on pricing. In the light of the provisions of the Regulation, municipalities must align the public service implementing decisions with national rules during a one-year transitional period. The Ministry estimates that the regulation will not result in an uncontrolled rise in the prices of municipal services. We expect municipalities and public service providers to regulate all the necessary records and data for the proper monitoring of the functioning of public environmental services in the following year. I have to say that this answer was prepared by professional services, and I have not deepened myself because I have many other problems. Nevertheless, if you ask me any further questions, I will try to answer them as best I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Brunskol, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. The substance of this Regulation, which came into force on 31 July last year, is also in determining the method of charging the network, this is the rent for infrastructure facilities, which means that municipalities will charge public undertakings this network in 2010 on the basis of the depreciation rates prescribed in this Regulation. These, however, are higher than the rates used by public companies in the depreciation account for management assets. The point is that this will be a huge burden for municipal budgets, because the municipalities will be interested in financing or subsidising 50% of the service of economic public environmental protection, in particular, so that they do not increase the prices of this public service. Those households that consume more drinking water will pay relatively less than those who actually consume less drinking water. And given today's economic crisis, many people have been reduced in actual income or are unemployed, so this is a real problem situation and situation, and this rule may have been premature. Perhaps we should extend this transitional period.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u86	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you for your suggestions. I'll pass this on to the professional services. I also estimate that a one-year deadline may be too short, although we know that what institutions want us to resolve matters within an even shorter time frame. But perhaps this suggestion of yours as to how the depreciation rates are; you said they are much higher than they were before; to review again if there is any correction to be made here in the light of the economic and financial crisis. I'm going to pass on these suggestions to the Ministry today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, will answer Mr Lászl Gönč's question on the issue of ensuring quality broadband. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u89	First of all, thank you so much for asking. Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The issue has been particularly raised here in Parliament, through parliamentary questions we have already addressed it several times, including Member Göncz in the previous year, accessibility to a quality broadband network or internet connections. Many parts of Slovenia do not have the opportunity to exploit this technology, which increases their backlog or reduces the chances of catching up to other parts. It is true that the Ministry of Higher Education has been responsible for electronic communications since October of last year, when the amendment of the Law on State Administration was implemented. We are aware of this problem, and we are also concerned to move things as quickly as possible and to reduce the digital divide, so-called, and in the long run, it is completely eliminated. That's our ambition. Recently, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted a new legislative package in the field of electronic communications, which requires and enables Member States to train them to more flexibly set transmission speeds for access to the Internet and thus contribute to making broadband services more accessible to a larger number of people. In Slovenia we are thinking within the Ministry about the concept of broadband services as universal services. This means the services that are and must be - and the country must do everything here - accessible practically throughout its territory. That's what we're trying to do, that's what we're planning. By the way, the steps in this direction are also in the plan, in the work programme of the future troikas, namely the Presidency of the European Union. In Slovenia, the acceleration we have given in this last period is also very important in this regard in the transition to the digitisation of broadcasting, as this will release a frequency space that can be further useful for broadband services. Not every location will have to go through the ground, but the radio spectrum will also be used. This new technologies enable and this is an opportunity for us to reach this goal of universality in Slovenia, where it is a difficult configuration. A concrete measure in Slovenia, which has been in force so far and will be implemented in the future, and you are also asking about it, relates to calls co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund. There's a lot of funding going on here. In particular, there is a targeted area of so-called white foxes, i.e. areas where there is no broadband access in Slovenia and it is also not expressed by companies, telecommunications companies, commercial interest to build such a network within a reasonable time. There's structural money right here, intervention. The call was announced last year, and we are also preparing it fast for implementation this year, which is expected to take place in the next two months, and it was very important for us to amend the e-communications law in advance because of the problems that occurred in the previous period, which was done at the proposal of the Government at the end of last year. The law is in force. It is now stated that companies that are obvious in the past have been asked about this by Member Zorn in one of the questions sent, to express a fictitious commercial interest in the construction of a broadband network in a particular area, and in this way has been excluded from the list of so-called white foxes, although they wanted to prevent, above all, the promotion of competition and had no real interest in building this network. Now the new law makes this impossible or sanctioning, and we will now be able to do this more correctly. I would also point out that in the past, especially in Pomour, 43 public e-points were built through the public e-point project. E-points allow broadband access to the Internet, about half a million euro of funds have been engaged to this end. But as I mentioned, the key steps will be taken [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Get ready. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u90	Mr. Göncz, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In particular, I am satisfied with that part of the response if it is in fact that the invitation to tender will be made public within the next two months. But I'm asking two more questions. You have mentioned that the Government or the Ministry aims to eliminate to the full all the problems that occur in the entire territory of Slovenia in this regard. Do you also have a deadline for this, at least approximately? And above all, the second part of the question is very topical, because I have also asked the question of a Member of Parliament, because in those areas that are demographically threatened, this question is particularly pressing and even, if you would like, interdisciplinary. In this regard, a number of other issues, including the remaining intelligence and expertise in a given area, are related. In this respect, there is still an alarming situation in Pomura, not only in Pomura, but also in a wide range of other areas in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I ask: Will this call to some extent also take into account certain specifics, because just exposing commercial interest, despite trying to introduce other techniques, will still not be sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u92	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It would be very ungrateful to predict which year could exactly count on broadband service as a universal service in Slovenia. This is what some rare European Union countries have set themselves for a goal that has not yet been achieved. Clearly, though, these efforts stem from the same concerns that you have mentioned and are very much in place. It is a matter of equal settlement or preservation of life in rural areas. It is the right to ensure the equal opportunities they have for the development of young people and also older people in all environments. It is the infrastructure that the economy needs to carry out its activities and all other public services that are tied to this backbone today. So it also enjoys a high priority in our eyes. Slovenia must prepare a new telecommunications development strategy in a short time, and within this strategy it will have a very high priority, at least the ministry will propose. It is said to provide additional funds as soon as possible - you know that these European funds are not unlimited, so that this call is likely to exhaust all of them. And as you have correctly established, they will not be able to solve everywhere the problem that exists. Of this city, which will also be allocated by the National Assembly in the national programme to this area, where there is no commercial interest, especially in the rural area, the country intervenes with additional resources and by the use of new technologies that come are very fresh in fact and allow us, therefore, to achieve sufficient speed not only by optics, but also, if I may say so, by air, to manage the cost of such investment by engaging these technologies. This will be at the end of the burden of the country to deliver this, to provide resources, and in the national programme it will be necessary to define both resources and steps, as well as those hands, and certainly this is a very high priority in our eyes. The invitation to tender to be issued this year will also include these parameters to the maximum extent possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u94	Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobič will answer Mr Milenk Ziherl's question regarding young researchers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. I understood this question, or the Ministry’s professional service, which concerns young researchers, which are called by the Slovenian Research Agency. There is also a category of young researchers in the economy. Since this term has not been used, in fact the answer has not followed in this sense, I suppose that these others, which are described by the Technology Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, follow the same logic. Young researchers are financed by this research agency, on the basis of a specific regulation on the training and financing of young researchers in research organisations. This is generally carried out every year until 1 December, or contracts between operators and young researchers have been concluded. There are mutual rights and obligations. On the one hand, this is a specific obligation of the Agency to monitor and monitor the implementation of the training programme at all stages. On the other hand, the obligations of the operator, inter alia, that the operator is obliged to inform the Agency of any changes that may affect the course of training and the possible lack of achievement or change of purpose under the contract. The operator must also report on the training within the time limits specified in the contract and must also report on the accompanying annual reports as well as on the final report. Among other things, it is stipulated in this Treaty that an operator who takes a young researcher into a regular working relationship will allow this researcher to work conditions for research work on research projects or research group programmes and conditions for postgraduate studies and a young researcher who is not in his research training function. It follows that the cases from which your question is likely to arise would also constitute a breach of such a contract. The supervision is based on reports carried out by ADR, which is based on reports and notifications from the contractor as well as from the young researcher himself. The guardian of the contract shall be in charge of this supervision, in special cases, the Agency shall so far report that they have not been and may also set up a special commission. It is worth mentioning, however, that those researchers operating in higher education organisations also have a statutory obligation in the collective research contract to carry out pedagogical work, but this is limited. A maximum of two pedagogical hours per day or eight pedagogical hours per week and the same applies to work at appropriate research organisations. In this way, there are obligations between the financier, between the contractor, among the young researchers. This is how control is carried out. To date, the Agency has primarily responded to questions relating to this issue. Specific cases that go beyond the level of clarification of the professional services to both young researchers and employers have not so far, they say.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. I am only partially satisfied with the answer because what is expected or what is supposed to be going on is sound. However, just at the time that this issue was published in the media, and as we discussed the matter further, a whole lot of questions came out of the field. This basic issue was certainly based on the fact that it was possible to track on the ground, namely, that young researchers are particularly overly involved in everything else, i.e. bureaucratic matters, in particular the less popular performances of their already established and older colleagues. The basic research task suffers, and a young researcher somehow does not feel at home in such an environment and thinks that he will be employed as soon as possible abroad. Therefore, one of the sub-questions would certainly be the traceability of how many have gone through this programme, how many have sought employment abroad. There's been a lot of new questions. Some point to calls sometimes made very domestically, where perhaps someone with better references does not come through and fall out. In addition, it was pointed out that there are also very difficult tasks and the extension is limited. For example, an example of research on stem cells, three years is short of time, but it was not possible to extend. There's a lot of questions and there might be an opportunity. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u98	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you. I'm grateful for that supplement. I will take note of the representatives of the Management Board of the Agency for Research which, in fact, represent a bridge between the Ministry and the Agency, which, as you know, operates independently under the Law on Public Agencies. However, it is the Ministry's duty to guide the work in the broadest sense to the work of the Agency. And this is one area in which you point out, which is relevant, including these traceability data, whether these additional obligations may be those that cause in individual cases that this young researcher programme is not completed within a period of time, which should in principle end with a doctorate. It will probably be more difficult with data because it will depend on the voluntaryness of these people to find alternatives abroad, but also such a survey that would provide data can be carried out, so that I agree with you that it would be meaningful, not direct control, but statistical control that would give insight into the situation and also order another action to be carried out. However, any concrete cases that would be worth addressing in this regard may also be an opportunity for your question of the Member State to have all the data available to them, to violate these treaties, to address them to a competent institution, including the National Assembly at the end of the day, the Ministry, the Agency, to investigate and also to take action against offenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Milan Pogačnik will answer Mr Mir Petk's question regarding concessions for the exploitation of forests. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Mountain hilly areas are undoubtedly very important for Slovenia, since we are third in Europe, with Austria and Finland, with 54% as regards the surface of mountain hilly areas. Of course, this is also a very important area, because it is the subject of intensive growth, not just forests. And we have 870,000 hectares of agricultural land per cadastra, and only 500,000 of them are in use. There's 370.000 in this area somehow. This is said to be a very important issue, and therefore Slovenia is actively joining up to address these issues with other mountain, hill countries. We have a special joint, France, Austria, Italy, Northern Germany, where we are trying to find the right content for these areas. On your particular issue, however, I would say that in 2007 a law on amendments and amendments to the forest law was adopted. And this law has also allowed natural persons who are farmers in accordance with the rules governing the transport of agricultural land and the active management of agricultural land in mountain and hill areas to exercise the right to grant concessions for the exploitation of forests in the Republic of Slovenia. Now it's just the first part. It is then necessary to prepare a programme for the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain and hilly world. This can only be done on the basis of individual farm conservation programmes to be prepared by interested farmers. That is why it was necessary to do this first, and we did this immediately, to develop a specific study on the verification of the methodology, because this methodology did not exist after the adoption of the amendment of the law. This study analysed geographical indicators, socio-demographic indicators, agri-economic indicators and forest-economic indicators. On the basis of this expertise, a specific regulation was drawn up by a special working group composed mainly of experts working in this field. This is a rule which specifies more precisely the conditions to be met by a natural person who wishes to exercise a priority in granting a concession. The work was very difficult because there was very much coordination, especially because we wanted to draw up such a regulation that would reduce administrative burden. And that's why almost four months of intensive intersectoral coordination took place. The Regulation was adopted in December 2009, and was also published in the Official Journal. On the basis of this adopted regulation, the Minister of Agriculture now has the basis to draw up a public call for the preparation of individual farm conservation programmes. The public call must be opened for three months and then, on the basis of advanced applications and programmes, a comprehensive conservation programme and the potential for use in this area and a priority in the area of concessions will be prepared. We expect that the whole process will continue there until September 2010 and that we will then be able to accept this in November in the Government after inter-departmental coordination. On the basis of such a programme, natural persons who are farmers, in accordance with the rules governing the movement of agricultural land and the active management of farms in the mountain, hilly world, may exercise the right to grant concessions. That's all we got, I'm sorry. As you know, in 1996 concessions were granted for 20 years and this deadline expires in 2016, and only then will this priority right of farmers operating in the mountain and hilly world be exercised. That is why it is very important that we accept the appropriate tools and do so. One such is the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, and the other is the Law on Agricultural Lands, which you will receive soon, I think it will be next month in Parliament, which will, of course, increase the liability of forest and agricultural land owners in the event that they are not mastered or used for the purpose for which such land is intended. Then, somehow, it will also be possible to take these lands and forests and make them available for use, and the fund will grant them to those who want to manage them and, of course, increase their agricultural and forestry holdings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I sincerely hope that this will really work out the way you said it would. Some Korean farmers, some of whom are estimated to be around 30 who are in urgent need of forest and forest, are already looking forward to this. It is true, however, that what you yourself have mentioned is likely to be one of the problems in the concessionaires themselves, who have been granted concessions for 20 years and thus in some way a great economic privilege, including economic and social power. Already today there are major problems in the very purchase of forest areas, and many farmers would have easier to convince their successors if they could expand their forest land and probably those areas along the border, these high-mountain farms were more populated. I will mention one example from Koroška, the case of Ivan Rožanc, who owns the forest under Peco and has already applied in 2004 for the purchase of a forest plot the size of eighteen hectares in order to have easier access to its forest areas in Podpeta. Interestingly, the forest that he wanted to buy was once owned by his family, and during socialism or communism he had only two options at that time, whether the forest was taken away from him or sold off at a very low price. He has already tabled several proposals or ransom requests, but this has not occurred in the past. However, when the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests approved the divestment of this plot last year, the concessionaire stepped down in the middle and in this case would have asked you for a written reply if you could forward it to me. I ask you orally: Are concessionaires in this area really some country in the country and that they can prevent everything today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister - if you think it's a complement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u105	It's a supplement. Yes, of course. I would certainly agree that this award of concessions for 20 years is undoubtedly very burdensome, but that was the decision. When we checked how this could be changed in a short time, we found that the resources needed to compensate were so great that we simply could not afford it. Thus, it will have to be tolerated somehow until 2016 for a new tender for concessions. At the same time, as I have said, by supplementing the Law on Funding and the Law on Agricultural Lands, we also want to provide a fairer compensation for the use of these lands and forests. However, they are, of course, at the disposal of another form and in cases where a concession contract is concluded, the concessionaire is the one who may or may not give up such concession. In this case, I would say that it is a small area which, if I understand correctly, would allow this farmer access to other surfaces. In such cases, the Fund is somehow trying, although the Fund is, of course, under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, not yet under the authority of the Ministry, so that I can only interpret the practice, but also try to achieve certain improvements in this area or try to facilitate such approaches. For Slovenia, it is very important to maintain agriculture and the presence of primary producers in this mountain, hilly world. For this reason, we have also introduced, for example, an intensive correction of the rural development programme this year, as well as some of the crisis measures, which allow for somehow facilitating the conditions of management in these areas, as well as the re-use of these areas for some other forms of grazing and livestock, in particular those of both natural and extensive forms. In short, I think that we will have to use these areas much more and give them more attention, and that is what Europe is doing, while in the past more or less all attention has been given to lowland intensive farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u107	Again, thank you very much. Thank you, too, Minister, for this complementary part of the answer. Nevertheless, in accordance with Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose a debate on the Minister's response, because it is obvious that, in the implementation of the Law on Forests and the prioritisation of concessions to mountain and hill farms, the concessionaires themselves represent a major obstacle. As the Minister said, concessions have been granted for an unreasonable period of 20 years, and in this period, when the concession was granted in 1996, much has changed in this country to date, and concessionaires are no longer what they were in 1996, they have become shareholders, d.o.o., they have completely changed ownership. I think it would be good if we talked in the National Assembly about how many concessionaires adhere to concession contracts and, on the other hand, how many countries adhere to these contracts, which was concluded in 1996. Some today also claim that during these years there has been much more wood cut than concession fees have been paid, and this could also be discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly. Therefore, I would also suggest that we take note of the content of the concession contracts at a future meeting, since the end of the woods owned by the State or public, and we are also entitled to these and similar responses in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Friday, to discuss the Minister's response, we will decide tomorrow in the context of the vote. Since the Minister without a department responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Boštjan Žekš is not present, he will answer Sam Bevko and Srečko Friends' questions at the next meeting. We are moving on to questions raised by Members of Parliament and Members for this meeting. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In the media we have read a long time ago that Koper Institute for Health Care has pointed out the inadequate quality of water from waterworks. At that time, you informed, or at least in the first statement, that sanctions would be imposed against the Koper Institute of Health, against Dr. Milan Krek, and against the microbiologist Dr. Gorazd Pretnar. For me, it was an absolutely exaggerated reaction. Instead of asking yourself what is wrong with your system or what your services are doing, the inspectors whose primary task is control, you point your finger at the one who discovered something. Later you softened your statements, stepped back and accepted Dr. Krek. In this regard, I would like to ask: What measures are envisaged in relation to this research work? Will you accept any sanctions against those already mentioned? Or do you intend - since it was also later said that the rules determine how many times and in what way these things are controlled - to change the rules or legislation governing this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Miklavčič, Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u111	If I were to answer the basic question with one sentence, what measures are envisaged in relation to the research work referred to above which water quality was found to be inadequate: I will not take any action. Now I'm going to read the Director's statement first. [[Signed, may I also give it to you?]] : "The Director of the Medical Institute of Koper Milan Krk states that in the event of a water problem, the Minister of Health did not communicate with the Koper Institute of Health in any form which would prevent or limit research work. However, as director of the Medical Services Department, Koper asked me to provide the data obtained on water sampling from waterworks." This statement of his is here. Now he has explained a few things, Lady Jeraieva, about your question. When I read this news in the paper, I think I was the most concerned of all what was going on. And, of course, any minister would be extremely concerned about such news. With regard to the statement that I have been through the public media that sanctions will be imposed against Director and Dr Gorazd Pretnar, I stress that I have never announced that sanctions will be imposed against both of them because of the research they have presented to the media, but because of their conduct. Because if he found out about this, he would have to notify the inspection immediately according to the provisions of the law. For the inspection is the body that can act, while Koper's Health Services has no opportunity to act. So if this water were dangerous to human health, we should immediately inform the press conference about this health inspection to remove these waterworks. And here, in the very process, was a mistake that I warned about as I was concerned about human health. I took immediate action to help experts, because I am not an expert in water quality and there are jobs here. Here I have the position of the Institute for Health and Health Care Maribor, one signed by Directors Marija Seljak and Zora Levacič. The Maribor Institute is known for its success and has sufficient references in this field. I will not read the whole letter, but only the final assessment, says both institutions and experts of these two institutions: "The indisputable conclusion is that water is on the surveyed reservoirs, according to the results of the analyses carried out, taking into account the legal order for natural mineral waters and springs, in accordance with the regulations on natural mineral water, spring water and table water and microbiologically appropriate. The samples examined did not identify the presence of pathogenic micro-organisms and, taking into account the Regulation of the European Community of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law of the European Food Safety Authority and the procedures relating to food safety, as amended, do not pose a risk to human health." However, when we had interviews with representatives, we felt that some of the regulations concerning such waterworks should be supplemented in order to further increase the safety of this water. And I named [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Today, by a decision of the Commission to complete this, and in this committee, there are all experts, including the Koper Department of Health. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u113	Well, I was worried about this myself, just like you, with the results, but then I wonder if by chance some microbiologist from Kopra would go and look into the matter and do some analysis, probably continue to, even in Parliament, drink water from waterworks that turned out to be microbiologically inadequate or I don't know how to express myself in a purely professional way. But I am afraid that then our inspection and those who should exercise control will not do so properly if such results can occur. I was particularly interested in your actions in this regard. Now we can change the rules and find out that we are not going to review this twice a year, or as set out now, but four times, let's say. I don't know, some of the analyses and some of the controls are probably done twice a year, and there's probably something wrong with those checks. That's why I'm interested! Then did the inspection do its job well? But then this probably means that there is no good in him or we can get results, because some researcher will decide to look into something that should be taken care of by state institutions, supervisory institutes such as inspections.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u115	In the National Assembly, you drink water that does not pose a risk to human health. This has been signed by two of the most respected professional institutions, the most prominent institutions this country has. If we're not satisfied with this, we can call someone else from abroad to do it. I think I've been very clear in my explanations: the inspection is doing its job. However, I must tell you, honourable Member, we have 15,000 waterworks in Slovenia. We will tighten the controls with those who fill these waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u117	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. If that's true, I don't know why they removed the waterworks in the National Assembly. It is normal for me not to examine all 15,000 of them, since never so much control is exercised to examine everything from A to Z, but to look at a sample or prepare a sample and examine only certain waterworks and then find out how it is with this issue. I propose that we have a broader debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a debate on Minister Miklavčič's response will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry to bother you again today, Mr Minister, but I also expect exact exact answers this time, as you usually do. I'm asking you: What is the Ministry’s intention to do in the area of managing and securing the various regional landfills of municipal waste? In Prekmurje, there is an absurd situation at the municipal waste dump, where asbestos waste is stored unprotected and uncontrollably, while gas and draining fluids are leaking uncontrolledly from the landfill. This is a landfill of municipal waste in Puconci, where huge amounts of gas come from the landfill within 24 hours. According to some estimates, more or less expert estimates, it is an energy equivalent of 3,000 litres of oil. So there's huge economic damage. The Ministry of Environment and Space has already been warned about this by the civil initiative of the Puconec citizens and then Minister Dr. Janez Podobnik has promised activities for the use of this gas, but no one has done anything so far. In the landfill there is an uninterrupted torch burn, which also certainly affects climate conditions and, of course, the loss of money on one side. On the other hand, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the State are looking for renewable resources, including biocentres for agricultural crops that could be used for food. In any case, Fran Milczynski would have included such a thing in his literary works, among the Butals, if it had existed at that time. And I really want to know, what is going to be done in this area? In particular: What does the Ministry of Environment and Space intend to do? In the Puconci landfill, over 100 tons of asbestos plates are stored by the State with the controller in the new body of the landfill. Here, however, the population was told that they were only temporarily stored in the courtyard of Serupa. You were there yourself, in this Serupa, you are aware of the situation yourself, and they probably gave you some instructions. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u121	I thank the Member for the second question. He's been pretty graphic today about the Butchers, but I hope we're not all in this circle. As far as your question is concerned, with regard to the requirements for the operation of landfills, the Republic of Slovenia has fully implemented the Council Directive on waste disposal in landfills by means of a waste disposal regulation and the Regulation also sets emission limits for the environment due to waste disposal. With regard to this particular case, it is the Puconci landfill, to say that we have sent an environmental inspection and that the last inspection was 10. 9. 2009 and that no irregularities were detected at that time in the areas to which your question was addressed. Let me say that the second phase of the CERO Puconci is currently being built at this landfill, including the construction of a new landfill. Indeed, 1400 tonnes - not 100 tonnes - of asbestos waste is temporarily stored at the cleaning plant, but 1,400 tonnes - of asbestos waste, which is stored in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of the Waste Management Regulation. I have said that this Regulation is prepared on the basis of a Council Directive. I believe that these directives are in line with the highest standards. In 2009, new water was set up at the landfill to capture landfill gas. Disposal gas shall be incinerated on a torch in the landfill, the emission measurements of the waste gas shall be carried out, the non-conformity of the inspection carried out by 10. 9. 2009, not found. Regardless of the fact that you have asked the question, we will consider this to be a misapplication of misconduct and will have the inspection re-examined and that, in the event of irregularities or non-compliance identified under the Waste Disposal Regulation, the inspection will act accordingly. According to the assurances I have, everything is to be carried out there in accordance with the rules. Nevertheless, we will have your question in mind to report inappropriate behaviour, and I hope that, on the next question of the Member State, you will also get the right answers as to what is happening at this landfill at this time. Ten. 9. However, I said what was the report of the environmental inspection.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I agree with you. Very nice, I'm glad there's gonna be a follow-up, because otherwise I don't understand why the locals are so upset or maybe they don't believe all these inspections. This is also about some data, so much in your information, for this second field, where these quantities are going to be stored, you say over 1,000 tons of asbestos, you say. You say that this is also all legal, that this is in accordance with the regulations - okay. The old dump has a very bad foundation and already water, it's questionable, an old dump, and water leaks into the groundwater. Analyses six months ago, this was last summer, showed an abnormal amount of pH, over 12% also heavy metal content, and not listing other harmful elements. In short, the groundwater in the pouting area is highly poisoned, as is generally the case in the Pomur region, where we have the worst water in Slovenia. Who is responsible for handling alarming data in such an irresponsible manner? The dump is full, and it is loaded with abnormal amounts of garbage from all over Pomur. It is said that the competent inspection services are prohibited to intervene in these anomalies. There's no one to intercede and turn. The Ministry of the Environment and Space says they're watching all this shit without mediating it. If there are worse consequences, will someone in the country be responsible? So here are some of these things that you actually deny on the basis of those reports or inspections. So someone's lying here, someone's pretending, something here's not right. I would therefore like to ask you for an additional reply. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u124	Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u125	Dear Member, I hope you don't think I'm lying. I told you what the inspection did. I must say that I have confidence in this inspection that in my work so far at the Ministry of the Environment under new leadership - you know that there has been a change at the summit - I have not seen that I have ever been misinformed. I believe what you said that people think these measurements may be incorrect. Therefore, I think it is right that the inspection should come again, perhaps it would be good for some representative of the dissatisfied public to participate, to see how these procedures are proceeding, and perhaps in this way also to increase confidence in the work of the inspections. So I expect a lot of this review, where we will see that things stand as our legislation says, this is what the Waste Disposal Regulation is called.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u127	In view of the fact that this is not just one landfill or one dump, that this is an all-Slovenian problem, as I hear, even in Gorenjska and Dolenjska, there are major problems, I think that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this subject deserves a detailed analysis in the National Assembly, regardless of what the results of your actions will be further. Mr Minister, I believe that even with any inspection, the issue will not be solved because a systematic approach to old deposits and to the planning of new deposits is needed. But while we're at it, I'd just like to inform you about another problem that goes on in the same region, almost in the same place. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u128	Györek, you can only have a business proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u129	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u130	Please don't spread the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u131	I understand, Mr. Vice President. I propose, therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, if I am not mistaken, that a broader debate be held on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. On the reply of Minister Erjavac to your question, the National Assembly will conclude tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Marian Krizman will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Minister and Ministers! I will ask the Minister of Health the following question. Dear Mr Minister, Izola Hospital is a long-standing rakrana of our health and environment, in which it has been operating, as it has for a number of years been melting with debts, outstanding bills and lack of money has also been poorly maintained, which certainly affects the work of the staff and the well-being of patients visiting the clinics and those in the wards. In some areas, however, it is highly professional, while in others it is a subject of stumbling and criticism by its users. The placement of the Izola hospital in the room is actually excellent if we know that the Primors in the region have five hospitals calling for professional cooperation and complementarity in the field of medical care and other health-related areas. Cross-border integration and closer cooperation with the Catinara hospital in the nearby Trieste would certainly be of mutual benefit. A lot of ink has been spilled, and a lot of ministers have taken the bait, but the problems remain. Truthfully, we have seen some attempts at recovery, but decisively small and only temporary and loving. Mr Minister, since you are known as a determined and very creative man, I ask you a specific question: How did you at the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia establish a substantive and technical resolution of the hospital in Izola? What are you actually going to do and what are the plans of the Ministry regarding the rationalisation and integration of coastal municipalities? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u134	Mr. Minister Miklavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u135	The answer to your question, honourable Member, I have tried to divide into five areas: first, human resources rehabilitation, the rehabilitation of current operations, energy efficiency, the programme of emergency centres and the integration of coastal hospitals. In the management of the General Hospital Izola, the Ministry of Health, which appointed the new Hospital Council in early 2009. The staff rehabilitation of the management of the hospital was linked to the process of covering unrecovered losses over the past years. You are aware that the director of the hospital was dismissed by a court of law. In March 2009, new management took over the hospital. There have also been some problems with the appointment of this leadership in the local environment. In the last ten years, Izola General Hospital has shown a high accumulated loss of € 10.4 million, representing 36% of the total hospital income and 13% of the total losses of all Slovenian hospitals. The result of the uncovered loss from past years in this hospital was inefficiencies, the inability to settle outstanding liabilities and the high cost of financing due to late interest and creditors' actions, not only to the hospital, including to the founder, i.e. the state. However, the negative impact was reflected on the overall business and processes in the hospital. At the beginning of the previous year, the Ministry of Health proposed to the Government that, as the founder of the hospitals, it ensure payment of the outstanding liabilities of three hospitals EUR 7.2 million. Of these 3,4 or almost half to cover losses from previous years for Isola Hospital. The condition for the proposed transfer from the State budget was that the Director was responsible for the correctness of the data provided, that in the event of irregularities in the procedures for the review of the operation he had to repay the funds following a government decision and that the Director was dismissed. The measures amounting to EUR 3.4 million were allocated to Izola Hospital in August 2009, on the basis of the documentation submitted on the outstanding liabilities and the level, conditions and method of settlement. We also carried out administrative controls in Isola on the use of funds that went from the budget. The Director made a written statement and assumed responsibility that the hospital would not show any losses in the current business for 2009. The operation of the hospital has been associated with the absence of competent management and management for a number of years. This is demonstrated in all aspects of the operation, from organisation, adaptation to the scope of activities, resources, recording of presence, work done, management, assets and financial operations. In credit contracts they had agreed interest on unpaid accounts between 8% and 12%, in these ratios. It was compared to others for a truly irrational business. Following the completion of operations for 2009, the hospital estimates these days that operations will be positive, the quality of this result is in the elimination of loss generators from past years, the elimination of critical items in the financial plan and the coverage of the loss we have made from the budget. As regards the third point, energy efficiency, in the context of the call for European funds, the hospital has already drawn up an application for these energy resources, so that it can run on a public tender for the reconstruction of the facade, the replacement of windows and doors, heat insulation and the rehabilitation of the roof, the rehabilitation of heating, the system of built-in cogeneration and the rehabilitation of the air conditioning system [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which would also allow for lower costs. [[...]] The hospital is also in the emergency centre programme and as regards your proposal to connect coastal hospitals [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u136	Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your answer. Mr. Crossman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u137	Mr. Vice President. I would take this opportunity to ask that the Minister of Health, who has given me a very satisfactory response, complete his reply. But I'm not gonna ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u138	You want me to supplement your answer. Mr. Secretary, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u139	I'm sorry. I'm not quite finished. In Slovenia, there are nine emergency centres in Slovenian hospitals. One of these nine emergency centres is also for Izola Hospital, the plans are being prepared and there is also an agreement in the Government that emergency centres, in addition to their own funds, are being financed from European funds, programmes are being developed for the whole of Slovenia. In the professional, organisational and other fields, the Ministry of Health supports and follows the integration of health institutions in all processes of rationalising the functioning of hospitals, division of labour and professional orientation in certain areas. The proposal for a new law also foresees forms of links between health institutions within the country and, of course, which is rational, even across borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlič announced the question to the Minister of Transport, who was absent. Would you like to ask? Here you go, Mr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like the Minister of Transport to answer my next meeting because he's not here today. The question I am asking, however, touches on the toll collected for motorways in 2009. Actually, I'm asking the Minister of Transport: How much toll was collected: especially for freight vehicles and for individual categories of freight vehicles and for passenger vehicles according to the number of individual types sold, from weekly, monthly, semi-annual and annual - given that the tolling system has also changed in the meantime. As that additional question or question, I am interested in: What was the share of the toll collected represented by foreign trucks and passenger vehicles in relation to domestic vehicles? This response will also be very interesting in view of the fact that the change in the vignette regime itself was justified precisely by the discriminatory attitude that the existing system of vignettes, which had been previously, represented a real half-year and an annual one, in relation to foreigners and which disturbed the European Commission, in particular the then Transport Commissioner, that he was, in fact, constantly putting pressure on Slovenia and the Government and the Minister of Transport gave in. This part of the answer would be very important. In fact, this would give us an answer to the relationship between domestic and foreign users of the motorway and how much we have contributed domestic and foreign and to see who is actually discriminated against and who bears the weight of the impressions we feel right now when we need to buy 73% more expensive wine. In anticipation of this answer, I am sure that this will then be confirmed that we are domestic customers to blame for those who are discriminated against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Verlich. Your question will be answered orally by the Minister of Transport at the next meeting. Ambassador Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Minister Dr. Lahovnik. I'm asking you: How do you feel about solving the enormously difficult situation in construction and related activities? If I explain the matter a little bit, I would say that in the past period the construction of the highway cross, as well as some other infrastructure and other projects, by Slovenian construction companies have responded to these requirements and adapted technologically accordingly. In addition to the largest Slovenian construction companies, a number of large or smaller subcontractors, craftsmen, independent entrepreneurs and so on were included in the projects. The motorway cross is more than not built and other major infrastructure investments are currently out of the question. Preparations for the construction of the remaining development axes are far behind, and there are also no railway projects, even more than private construction of residential and business facilities is completely dead. In doing so, I must point out that this is not just a delay in the preparation of projects in this mandate, but that too slow preparation has been taking place since earlier. However, I note that preparations have now lost all intensity. Dear Minister, what will you do to provide Slovenia with the necessary infrastructure projects, which will be more extensive in Slovenia's construction activities, from design to implementation, to provide opportunities and opportunities for further work and exploiting their human and technological potentials in particular? During this difficult economic crisis, it is not necessary to stress that not only a few of Slovenia's largest construction companies are dependent on these state infrastructure projects and other projects - by the way, with a few tens of thousands of employees - but they depend indirectly on dozens and thousands of other jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Minister of Economy Dr. Matej Lahovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It is true that this issue that you are asking me about is part of, or mainly, the Department of Transport, especially when we are talking about the construction of roads and railways, or the Ministry of Environment and Space, but the issue is actually affecting or touching the economic spheres in terms of economic growth. So I can answer that I very much agree with you that stopping some projects is a problem. For this reason, we are also working forward at the Ministry of the Economy to prepare some projects where the country has either a majority or a key stake in state-owned enterprises and which are so-called infrastructure companies. We can also try to revive economic activity in this way. These measures are mainly about the energy sector, for which I am the district minister, where we expect Eles and the electricity distribution companies to invest around EUR 200 million of their funds available to them or in debt. In addition, we expect to invest €70 million in renewable energy in 2010. We expect to further promote the efficient use of energy in a way that will allow 20,000 households, which is actually one of Slovenia's largest cities, to subsidise the replacements of windows, doors, facades, roofs with those that are not energy efficient with energy efficiency. All of this has important effects. We also, of course, expect to say that there will be further construction or the construction of some energy facilities. It is mainly the construction of the Krško hydroelectric power plant and the beginning of the construction, the Brežice hydroelectric plant on the lower Savi. We expect construction to begin, and that is the plan, a landfill for low and medium-level radioactive waste, where the budgetary indicative value of €150 million is somehow. Thus, we have identified these infrastructure projects considerably and are preparing them expeditiously. But speaking generally of the construction crisis, the fact that some companies are in crisis is also because, on the other hand, they have a very large share of unsold dwellings in their balance sheets. When we look at the prices of apartments in other parts of Slovenia, we see that at least when new apartments are sold, prices have already dropped quite a bit, and there is virtually no effect in Ljubljana. And of course, this is a problem for me, on the one hand, because the fact that this real estate balloon is still very high, and while we have a crisis in some major construction companies, we have the fact that these companies still have apartments in their balance sheets, valued between 3,000 and 4 thousand or even 5,000 euros per square metre. And don't sell them at reduced prices. If we look at the prices of properties in Ljubljana, newly sold properties, you will see that they have not fallen noticeably as abroad, by 40 or 50%. With regard to when the question often arises, I can say my personal position. I think one possibility is that the state or housing fund buys it out, but not at current, market prices, but at a significantly lower price with some discount, let's say 30, 40% in terms of prices, as they were on the market. It is said, with a very high discount, and in this way these properties can then be given to the housing fund for non-profit rentals or anything else. But personally, when we are talking about housing, I do not support that the country would buy these apartments at existing very high market prices, because I would say that they would be spilling these funds into these companies, which obviously are not, at least, willing to do the restructuring processes themselves. There's an opportunity here, but the ransom is only at a very high discount price. However, in infrastructure projects, as I said, I very much agree with you; some I have mentioned, which we have opened and accelerated. I think this is one way to revive economic activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that again. I am satisfied with the answer that Mr. Secretary gave me. Obviously, we both agree that the problem is big. The problem is particularly pointed out by people who are familiar with macroeconomics, that one of the biggest problems this year will be in the area of construction; also because of the deferred loans that construction companies have and so on. Many of these reasons have been cited in your reply. I therefore appeal that the Government also thinks about solving the problem in, I believe, an extremely important sector such as construction, including through appropriate measures to speed up the sale of those you mentioned, i.e. unsold stocks, if I say so, and by accelerating the preparation of projects in various areas, of all infrastructures. I don't mean infrastructure like you, of course, not just traffic infrastructure, but many others, it's water, it's energy, it's traffic and some. Many countries, including other, particularly large ones, Germany, the United States of America, have taken precisely these measures to accelerate the construction of infrastructures of different categories. Take this as an initiative, so I also asked you a question. If I were to go directly to transport infrastructure, I know someone else needs to be asked. [[...]] [[I know the warning for the end of the debate.]] Set it up. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer? No, thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. My question, as has already been said, is somehow addressed to the two ministers, namely the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for Environment and Space. But he's referring to the next one. 15. 9. 2008 The former government adopted or initiated procedures for State spatial plans for the motorway, which is for the road within the third development axis from Velenje to the existing Ljubljana-Celja-Maribor motorway. At that time, I myself find, as well as the natives, that there are some complications between these two ministries, some problems. I will also explain the attitude towards this, and above all what is problematic - that nothing is happening. See, this road section is extremely important for the economy, not just Koroška, but also for the economy of Velenja. We know that in Velenje there is Gorenje Velenje and many more, which, of course, also irritates products along as bad a road as it is now. However, several plans were made at the time, F1, F2, F3, F4, F5 and F6. The locals on these routes have asked me, in fact, to try to get answers to some questions publicly from both ministers. I think that people are, of course, entitled to it. One would expect that somehow a reasonable option will prevail, yet, according to the information I have, more and more triumphs with the lobby and not with reasonable options, which would take into account money that would take into account the wider interests of people, not just two, three people from the government coalition. And so, Minister of Agriculture, I ask: Does it hold data, or do I have the right information that the Ministry of Agriculture strongly opposes variant F2? In fact, variant F2 goes through the best hops in Savina Valley. If that is the case, I will thank the Minister for his attitude, and I will continue to ask the Environment Minister for his reply, which seems to be forcing a completely different option, which is more expensive, harmful and more. That's what I'm talking about. Maybe if I were the Minister of Agriculture first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u150	Dr. Milan Pogačnik Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u151	Your Honor! The Ministry of Agriculture also fights to preserve the best agricultural land in this regard, as in other cases. That's how it's 12. 3. 2009 redefine and find it unacceptable to link the proposed route to the existing Ljubljana-Maribor motorway in the village of Šentrupert. We certainly believe that the better option is to link to Arjo Vas because this would completely avoid interfering with the narrow area of the best agricultural land, especially in the municipality of Braslovče, which are in active agricultural treatment. There's also a irrigation system [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] In addition, not only is the highway envisaged on this route, new business zones are also envisaged. However, the Ministry of Agriculture participates in the framework of the national business plan as the regulator and provides guidance and opinions in the environmental impact assessment process. Thus, in a specific case of the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, we issued guidelines and their additions, as well as an explanation of the civil initiative already mentioned by Braslovča; this is our task and everything else is within the ILO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The Minister for Environment and Space is not present to give an answer. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I don't know why he escaped or why he's not here, even though he's been announced. That is why I will make some arguments, Mr Agriculture Minister, who speaks for you, and on behalf of all those people who live on this route, I will also express my full support for your efforts to do so. In fact, look, we're talking about Velenje-Braslovče Road, at Šentrupert we're connecting to an existing highway. This goes through the best agricultural land. At the same time, in Velenje, it requires the construction of a large tunnel. This means that it is significantly more expensive than road F-6, which actually follows today's Velenje-Arje route of village or today's route. This road is more expensive, requires no intervention in agricultural land and connects industrial centres. In fact, Celje, Velenje, Žalec are some industrial-economic centres that connect them, which the former F-1 or F-2 did not connect at all. And the last thing that needs to be said in this regard is, above all, that this version of F-6 is cheaper. It is the fact that the indicative calculation shows 164 million, that transport is more efficient, saves land and connects economic centres. I have a feeling - Mr. Environment Minister has returned - that you are being pressured by the lobby. Perhaps today, according to tomorrow’s debate in the National Assembly, is an opportunity to expose them. It seems to me that it is a question of two, three very influential people of the ruling coalition who ignore the fact that it is a better variant of F6, but they advocate a variant of F2, so the direction of Braslovča, simply to be in Ljubljana first. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] However, the old road that would have been rebuilt will have to be restored eventually. [[...]] Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you for asking. Dear Member, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I fully understand your political interest that the route runs there across Celje, this is called the F6 variant you're defending. The profession says that F2 is most appropriate. I must say, as Minister of the Environment, I never put any pressure on my profession, even though the Minister is a political function, but it is necessary to take into account the expertise. Of all the options made by the profession, they examined, but found that F2 was the most suitable. Don't expect me to do anything about it. I probably won't have a chance in the future to influence. But what I can tell you for sure is that no one pressures me, not so much or otherwise. I'm one of the few ministers you can't put pressure on. Maybe that's the reason I always have a lot of problems, a lot of affairs, etc. So I suggest we just leave this to the profession. The profession is the one who knows what's best for this country. I don't have anything to add. But that depends, if we lived closer to Ljubljana, we'd be for F2 because you live closer to Celje, but you're for the F6.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I'm not going to argue because this rules out. But it's just a conclusion. Personally, or the people who elected me from F1 or F6 have nothing, because I was last there many months ago, so I'm sure they don't. But what's in your eyes is the fact that the matter is significantly more expensive and all the other things that I've counted. In any case, I ask that we vote tomorrow on a broader debate, because I still think it is a question of lobbying not interested in money, but of personal interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. On your proposal, Mr Gorenak, that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of Minister Erjavac, we will decide tomorrow at 20 o'clock, around the time of the vote. Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Transport and Communications, who is absent. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The minister was present earlier. Most of the questions are addressed more to the Transport Minister, but I hope to get an answer. Dear Madam Secretary. There was an emergency last week, an accident in Troy's tunnel. This is always happening, and we can't rule it out. The traffic was diverted for four days to the parallel highway Celje-Ljubljana. My question concerns the organisation and regulation of this redirection by Dars and traffic control by the police. When we were in convoys and waiting for hours, it was a common view that in these institutions they did not use logic in such cases. That's why I'm asking: Why was the highway traffic diverted to Vransk and not 8 kilometers later in the Trojans? There was no obstacle on the highway, which would immediately reduce the waiting time. For it is known, traffic and physically, that a shorter cut means a shorter waiting time, at the same time the drivers could be arranged; one would go to the Trojans out, and one would go to Vransk through Tuhinj, then go with Trojans one to Izlaka and Moravča and so on and avoid congestion. It doesn't make any sense! So, we got mad from Vranski to Blagovica. The second narrow throat was a one-column entrance to the highway in Blagovica. Dars and the police should provide and immediately organise two-column imports onto the Blagovica motorway. That's feasible. Now there was a column slowly driving from Troy or from Vranski, because there was no "eat" on the highway. I don't know how they don't arrange a two-column entrance to relieve this. This is also feasible and traffic needs to be monitored. Madam Minister, you are almost every day on the announcements, social and yellow press. Thousands of people who have to drive daily to work in Ljubljana would like to learn about transport solutions that cause terrible but unnecessary congestion. I argue that such an unorganised organisation of transport and control was unnecessary, and this could have been organised substantially differently. I don't know why the enormous damage done by this is allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u161	Mr. President-in-Office. Your Honor, thank you for your question. As you know, the road has been open since yesterday, and all these unpleasant events that disturb just every driver on the road are gone. I hope that I will be able to answer essential questions for you, given that my colleague Wlačič is not present. Maybe he'll give you some later in terms of traffic safety. Police carry out certain obligations, monitor the situation and regulate road transport, even in the event of accidents. In a traffic accident that occurred on 20 January, the tunnel of Troy was closed, and the accident was very bad, so it was necessary for the safety of people and property. So, it's a total traffic jam. Following this notification, the motorway company put in place an appropriate traffic signal. Due to the fire and thick smoke, which significantly reduces visibility on the part of the motorway in the immediate vicinity, the tunnel was completely closed during the intervention in both directions. The whole traffic was thus diverted to a parallel regional road, which is the only possible transport on this route. Due to the change in traffic signalling and the increased density of traffic, traffic on the parallel regional road resulted in traffic congestion and occasional congestion, but traffic was still safe. It is likely that certain delays at such extraordinary events cannot be avoided. Police reacted very quickly to the accident and set up appropriate patrols. 8 police patrols regulated traffic flow and traffic signalling. The first patrol was at the scene of the accident at 3:28 p.m., and everyone else gradually became involved until 4:25 p.m., and another 15 minutes later a helicopter of an air force was activated to ensure that the traffic was running as accurately as possible and controlled from the air what was happening. In view of the circumstances that have changed, Darsu also proposed the establishment of additional traffic signalling. The motorway was open to Celje on the same day for all traffic at 4:53 p.m. and traffic was running. During the course of their operations, of course, not all of them opened immediately, three police patrols were present in all the traffic relations, which had the advantage of monitoring compliance with the rules and traffic rules when problems or congestion occurred. At that time, traffic was also intensively and actively regulated. I'm sure the police have done everything they can in this case. As Minister Erjavec said before me, I cannot get involved in the professional judgement of what the professional services are, which is, the police have assessed where the operations are going, how the traffic is directed. As Minister, of course, I give them all the authority to do so, and I trust their judgment. As we say, there are no more problems on the roads today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u163	But a key question could be answered by the interior minister: Why was the highway between Vranski and Trojan closed when there was no obstacle? Why did they afford to export from the highway eight kilometres earlier? And Madam Minister - unfortunately Minister Vlačič avoided - I must say that when I got out of the car and waited there in Vransk, many drivers said, tell Minister Vlačič to borrow the blue light from his business car. Does anyone in the country think of economic damage in such cases? People have been working hours and hours late, Slovenia is centralised and thousands of people are driving to Ljubljana. There were rescue cars in the columns, patients, dialysis, radiation cancers, and all of this collapsed in the hospitals in order. People aren't served at government offices because people didn't come to work on time. That's a shame! And to organize! And look, there's got to be logic in your ministry and at the DARS. He's got to! There is no justification for such carelessness, I am not saying that security has not been taken care of, but in addition to security, it is necessary to take care of some rationality, possible access, to consider which routes around people can come in time, how traffic will be better divided and how to reduce congestion. That wasn't done! I have talked to many while I was waiting, and with many also technically educated, everyone agrees that absolutely nothing is done here and it seems that everyone can regulate their own traffic. I see in the Congress Square today they've extended the blockade almost to Wolf Street. Can connected persons with Jankovic allow themselves to be where the traffic is closed and this is? Looks like it's a perfect anarchy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u164	Would you like to complete the answer? Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u165	Commissioner, I believe the whole matter has upset you, but it is also true that I am the Minister of the Interior, not for transport, and not for the Head of the Motorways Association, who has taken care of the appropriate signalling. As I say, I don't know, maybe I wasn't loud enough before. I'm sorry. I have a slightly worse voice today. [[...]] At that time, she did the best she could, engaged all the patrols she could, including the police helicopter. Controlling that in those conditions that were, unfortunately, just as they were, doing their job well. And as I say, I trust the expertise of judging and carrying out their work. And as it is said, no major or no security events have occurred at this time, but I cannot answer for Dars' decisions or anyone else who regulates traffic from another point of view, not from a security point of view. But thank you for all the warnings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u167	Let me say that I expect Minister Vlačič to answer these questions, because otherwise such anarchy will continue in other similar cases. We know that these cases happen, and please - whether he will answer another time or answer in writing, because he was here before, he is not here now. So, this carelessness bothers a lot of people, thousands of people are involved. However, I will not propose an extension because this is not exactly the central problem of Slovenia, but it is tanning a number of people, and here the organisation of this traffic was extremely poorly done - inadvertently, poorly, it could be 80% less congestion, if you think and have to be involved by the traffic manager - Dars, who is key and, of course, the police, to ensure security and some on call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Minister Vlačič will be reminded that the missing part of the answer to your question will be answered in writing. Thank you very much. Ambassador Dejan Levanič will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister. In August 2009, the Ministry of Culture launched a second public call for development investments in public cultural infrastructure. Following the publication of the results at the end of December 2009, a number of doubts arose from unchosen investors about the correctness of the work of the expert commission. One specific example for the Municipality of Ptuj, some of which was also found elsewhere by the Ministry to have explained that the tender documentation was incompatible with the fifth indent of point 5.2. Therefore, it is a specific condition for the application of the tendering documents. This is a CBA analysis which was not produced in this case. And the fact is that this analysis is necessary for specific projects when it comes to applying for projects over EUR 1 million, but projects that are below this amount, i.e. less than EUR million, do not need this analysis. In this case, therefore, in the case of the City Municipality of Ptuj, the project was worth less than EUR 1 million, and nevertheless the Commission requested such an analysis, which under certain rules, at least as I know it, would not be necessary. Therefore, in order to clarify this problem, there may be no problem at all, but some things seem illogical at first glance and given the importance of such calls, which in particular bring about some development for the local environment and in particular development in the cultural direction, it would be good to say in the development of those projects which are of some vital importance for the development of cultural activities in the local environment, to clarify this or at least to say: How do you comment on these findings on the bias of the Commission, or if you are or are planning to take any measures in this direction to address these issues, or whatever these irregularities have occurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirca, Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Of course, I have a few problems with the answer to the question that has been sent, which touches on the invitation to tender, which has not yet been completed. That is to say, the interpretation of the individual case, including the one mentioned in the case of Ptuj, will be difficult or will be difficult for you and others, and will be interpreted by the Commission at all, when it addresses all the complaints received. And I admit, there's not a lot of complaints and I'll tell you why. I say above all that they appear, you have raised doubts about this invitation to tender. I have to interpret that to a large extent these doubts, which have been scattered across municipalities that have not been successful, have often been the result of the fact that the plate is half empty and the spoons, which would cover from it, are huge. This call, by the way, was prepared very carefully, at least the notifiers had the opportunity to participate in a number of workshops, even in the light of the fact that last year, which was worth almost half less, only 6 million or 5.5, while this year's 10th, has a lot of interest, while there are few options. More than 60 entities, municipalities, have applied with projects that, as reported to me by those who participated in the commission, even good and very good, and even in most possible realizations, because in the past it was completely different. But the problem is very big. In the light of the fact that in the past there has been an entire cultural ministry for these two calls, that is to say, for the invitation to invest in the development of municipalities with infrastructure owned by municipalities and for the call for infrastructure, where the heritage, monumental part owned by municipalities, is only EUR 67 million for 5 years, for the period 2007-2013. We have 67 million in the area of culture, and this call, which you say raises doubts, its solutions - of course, because only five, six projects can come within the 10 million sum, which is 67 million, and we know that in the area of cultural heritage are not projects for 500,000 euros, but more. And this call is still waiting, and only after the congregations have now prepared themselves, because this call for investment for development in the area of cultural heritage for infrastructure owned by municipalities has not even been made in the past. He wasn't there. In short, I want you to understand that this plate is a very poor bowl. I don't understand the day that it happened in the past, I think that this year 2006, one afternoon, it was agreed to cut a cake for European funds - because we understand that we are talking about European funds - in billions of agriculture, so much and so much transport, so much and so social, etc., and 67 million cultures. And this is a culture that has an inheritance, and this is that segment of infrastructure that is difficult to fill from an integrated budget, not just by the municipalities. We know that cultural tolar is in the past and has done something now, but there are more difficult relationships, 50:50, while European funds can be at 80:20 and 85:15 respectively. That's why when this call is concluded and when the answers are also about Ptuj, because I don't know how the commission works. The Commission is real, it collects points, it sums up, such as tendering conditions, it is impersonal and it is harmless or it is lobbyistic, which I understand that it is possible for someone to feel that this has been the case. But we will try to do something different: redirect some of the projects to agriculture, where it is also for the development of rural, cultural and heritage centres; to regional development, to development, to what we have heard today in the response of the President of the Government, where there are 203 million, where the mayors or regions themselves will have to agree on what is priority and what is not, and what is not. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Transport, who announced his absence after 5 p.m. This explanation also applies to Mr Jerovska. Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's true. The question is, in fact, addressed to Minister Vlačič, in the majority. Of course, Mrs Kresalov will also be able to answer some of my questions. I hope that I will also be answered orally at the next meeting, but about this a little later. The fact is, fires in road tunnels are one of the most dangerous fires of all. This is due to the development of fire itself, the negative consequences and past bad experiences with similar fires. Well, and in the tunnel of Troy, 20.1.2010 there was an ignition of a truck after a collision with another semi-trailer. Given the magnitude of the consequences of the fire in such a short time, we can talk about one of the biggest fires in European tunnels at all. In the worst fires so far, the extent of the fire has been similar. The only difference is that this fire was put out very quickly. The Slovenian fire department considers such a fire as the worst possible scenario. The concept of intervention in Slovenian road tunnels has also foreseen such scenarios and in recent years it has been planned to build a system of equipment, response and, in particular, training for double-tier and single-tier tunnels. The concept began to be built by Slovenian firefighters mainly on the rapid response of operational units. Given that there was no relevant information in the world at the time, the whole concept of intervention in tunnels in Slovenia is the product of domestic knowledge. Finally, response plans were also made, which resulted in an on-call fire team in Vransk. The result was that the system worked successfully and prevented human casualties and massive economic damage, which would have gone into tens of millions of euros directly and indirectly more in the light of small errors in the concept. As I know that Minister Vlačič is well aware of the concept of such rescue, and as I want to be sure that he is also aware of the conditions under which professional firefighters in charge of intervention in those critical cases are staying and operating, I ask him, in writing or orally, to assess the intervention. First of all, when will the firefighters who have their own domain in Vransk - I am talking about professional firefighters from Domžal and Celje - receive appropriate treatment and be provided with appropriate conditions to carry out an extremely important job for the safety of all those who travel on Slovenian roads? I myself have their premises and the conditions for the work of mirrors and I suggest that he do the same. I am confident that he will assess that, given the latest contribution in the trojan tunnel and assuming that they have prevented millions of damage, they deserve better working conditions. I also ask the Minister, given that there is also safety in transport: How do you assess the work done by the firemen, police and rescue units in this fire? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u175	Dear Member, I hope to be able to answer at least part of your question - this is an important question. The Road Safety and Rescue Plan for the Western Styria motorway, which is also used in all other motorway accidents, sets out the concept of protection and rescue and all the entities involved. On the basis of a regional plan for protection and rescue in road tunnels and on the basis of tunnel hazard assessments, police have developed a special reminder of activities in the event of major tunnel accidents. Police activities are defined in detail, from protecting people's lives, property and maintaining public order in the disaster area, to informing the operation of liaisons, activating forces, coordinating tasks and reporting. The report on the implementation of intervention by all intervention services shall be drawn up by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue at the Ministry of Defence. As Minister of the Interior, I cannot therefore assess, at least not formally, the work of the fire and rescue services, but I can tell what the police have been thinking about. According to the police, the reaction time between the event and the notification and the final arrival at the scene of the accident was approximately 7 minutes. The work of intervention teams, including the road manager, was carried out in a coordinated and effective manner. So, the police estimate is that firefighters and rescue services have done their job well. My assessment as ministers is that the police have done their job well and that there have been no wider security problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Croat, please. Just enough to say there would be no doubt. Your question will be addressed to the Minister of Transport by asking him to answer you in writing so that the whole question can then be fully addressed. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you. After all, it saddens me that just when Mr Jerovski and I were asking a question about this, he left, but no matter what, I know he apologized. But the fact is that I am actually interested in whether Minister Vlačič, who is actually responsible for Dars or oversees Dars, is responsible for mediation or security in the tunnels, if the firefighters of ABC Vransko, made up of professional firefighters from Domžal and Celje, are the first to intervene in the fire in the tunnel and with their knowledge and courage, which will last a long time in professional circles around the world, I stress - throughout the world because this is a comparable accident - an appropriate reward. Of course, not all those who participated in or intervened in the event of this accident are much better off, and I think it is right to mention them. Here participated the Centre for Fire Safety Domžale, the Celje Professional Unit, voluntary fire companies Trojane, Blagovica, Lukovica, Prevoje, Domžale-city, Fire Company Vir and, of course, the agents of the Dars control centre, the police, as I mentioned earlier, and of course rescuers. I think that each of the participants contributed their share to the full, and this is an extremely successful operation. Now, of course, in conclusion. I hope that the Minister will respond to this, or if he will provide me in writing, at the next meeting. I ask him: Is it possible to consider purchasing an additional intervention vehicle to intervene in tunnels? Because the analysis shows that there are too few people in this area and for such interventions. Of course, I expect, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that the Minister will be very effective in these answers and that the conditions under which professional firefighters in Vranska work will also be mirrored. [[...]] They're not worth a man. They're not worth a fireman like that. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer, even though the question has not been addressed to you, Madam Minister? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr Happy Friend will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General! Have a nice hello to you all. There are few of us who insist, but a respected minister, in my hands, I have a regular public project invitation to co-finance the programming content of the media for 2009. You've changed this invitation and you've cancelled the original one. And in the amended form, they added second indent, which states that legal and natural persons who are registered for the production of radio works or radio programmes may also run at a tender of EUR 2 million. Of course, it would be all right if other articles of the invitation to tender were corrected accordingly and you did not do so. It is stated in point 5.2.2. that on the day of the publication of the invitation to tender, all those who report to this invitation to tender must be listed in the media at the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. This is certainly not legal and natural persons registered for production. And so we have come to the conclusion that quite a few people who have applied for the invitation to tender have been allocated EUR 100,000 in unwarranted funds to the four. The Commission, which measured whether appropriate or not, essentially wrote a report on one sheet of paper - very embarrassing for such a means to obtain only such text - and among the explanations it is also observed that "the project is more or less in conformity with all the tender criteria." What is "more or less," I don't know, but if that's an explanation, it's Radio Fireplace. In short, Madam Secretary, I ask you: Will you consider the legal sustainability of what you have also realized and requested a re-enlisting of funds? If not, then there will be a job for a colleague who has just finished her job as Minister of the Interior. We'll just file a criminal complaint. Secondly, what I am interested in is selling to the regional RTV station Koper, which is still receiving large funds from these public funds. The Italian programme also records programme content for the purposes of the Croatian Italian minority - with our money! - and this content still has no Slovenian subtitles. In the previous term, I have raised this issue several times and it is unsustainable that all of us in Slovenia must watch the Italian programme without Slovenian subtitles. I'm also in favour of [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] The Slovenian programme is appropriately subtitled with Italian subtitles. [[...]] You think you can fix this? Here, too, is actually a large amount of money and a difference in the salaries of journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u181	Mr Friend, the doubts you have indicated that the invitation to tender should not be in accordance with the rules and laws of the Ministry, not only have we not noticed them, but no one has given them to us either. This is a call for co-financing of the creation of programme content for printed media, electronic media, radio programmes, television programmes, as well as electronic programmes and, of course, all those who have an obligation and who have run for these calls must be included in the register because it is a media programme and the call is for this purpose. I suppose the Commission has examined this, of course, and no one has reported that any of the media has not been registered. Once again, I stress that these are programmes, co-financing of individual media programmes, programme content, and that they are not funds to finance applicants or media publishers. It is true, however, that when this call is concluded or all the reports are submitted, the media department or sector has been instructed by the Media Directorate to clearly and clearly and unequivocally review all the reports and comparisons that have been made or will or will have already been submitted by what they have actually spent. It is not only about controlling the contents, whether they have been implemented or not, but also about spending resources, because they always tell us around the corner that money is not always intended for those programmes that have also received assistance. At least my list of decisions is significantly broader than one party, and it is true that every project that received funds this year, in accordance with the Media Act and in accordance with the allocation of funds, represents 3% of the contribution that is collected for RTV subscription or RTV contribution in the previous year. In short, each project must have an explanation; and it does. Now, who might like it, who doesn't, but has it. Unlike in the past, when the evaluations were made, this is what the Court of Auditors found when it strongly challenged us - not us but, to my predecessors - the implementation of these calls to make such assessments, because we know that calls must have the opinion of the expert commissions and also what some of the projects have been classified as such have been left out of regulations, which is why, as I say, the Court of Auditors is still pursuing us, as you know, even when you are present with the Commission to monitor the implementation of the budget. In short, this time the Commission, which has been working almost all summer and which, of course, has also been very, very much dealing with solutions, measurements on how to balance, according to the regional and second key, to cover this call, has made every effort to provide an explanation. As I say, we will make sure that those who have been successful at the tenders will also give the Ministry a clear explanation of how they have spent these funds. After all, evaluation is needed in order to continue to co-finance the media at all, an evaluation which means a cut, an analysis of the effects of such an invitation to tender, to which many doubt, if not the other Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u183	With all due respect, Minister, you haven't answered anything. I told you nicely that you cancelled the original invitation to tender in April, completed it with a second point in chapter two, "justifiable applicants for the invitation to tender are" and added legal and natural persons. If we look under point five in the tendering conditions where the conditions are set out, such as they must be for tenders, all those who have applied should be entered in the original form of the notice of invitation to tender on the day of publication of the invitation to tender in the Official Journal. This did not happen, and so unjustifiably received the funds of all, I agree, I also have a copy which is identical to the original, which is essentially the annex to the report. Unreasonably, they received funds from all those under order numbers 31, 32, 33 and 51. If you don't want to check this out, okay, we're just going to request that this be done on the official route through a law enforcement agency. I asked you what about the Slovenians, who are forcibly watching the Italian program without subtitles with Slovenian subtitles. In fact, we all pay for the RTV subscription. I'd ask you to make sure we're equal before the law. If I am looking at a minority programme, I would like to see Slovenian subtitles when I hear Italian text, and vice versa, to understand each other. If this does not happen, then it is illegal use of public funds. And, Madam Minister, I asked you: Why do you allow the Italian RTV, the regional television station Koper, to broadcast for the needs of their minorities in Croatia with our money. That's what I asked the previous minister. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] That's not a denial. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u184	Would you like to complete your answer, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u185	In a warning about the non-compliance of the invitation to tender, we will look at you because you are the first to warn us that anything would be disputed. Surely, though, it would have been more fitting for these warnings to be checked earlier, since we know that the invitation to tender had been signed a good year ago and that it had thus expired. However, it is no different than the previous years, although let's face it, we would like it to be, but we are trapped in a law that allows such an invitation to tender. The question is whether it will continue in the future, given that different considerations are being created in media legislation, whether it makes sense to co-finance the media when it comes to conditions that at least the professional public is not in love. Therefore, they also proposed different solutions. On this and also on the question concerning co-financing of subtitles within the Cyprus programme - by the way, you have made a mistake before, this can not run on the invitation to tender, which we discussed earlier, because there are no conditions. Well, I'm just correcting you, given that you'll at least be able to say now that I haven't answered anything. This question can also be defined differently because you have been repeating it for years now, in the new legislation, and you will undoubtedly have the opportunity now as you have in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u187	Dear Minister! You can answer me the way you want, and you're happy with it yourself. I can't be. The type of regional television stations in Primorsk did not receive a single euro due to the so-called "shampa" sharing process. I can mention here. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u188	Mr Lucky Friend, just a moment, please make a procedural proposal and not to reopen the question. The Minister points out that the allegations are not correct and cannot be answered. Please, in the context of what you've been talking about, don't open up any new problems. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u189	Sponka TV didn't get anything, Vi-Tel didn't get anything, the boat very little, you could keep listing. I'd say that, if you're satisfied with what's going on in your area, then it's okay. Many have not. The programming content will not be the same as it was, because it is the privilege of the individuals you have set. I'd like to say that. As long as all of us in the Republic of Slovenia are paying a subscription to RTV, then we have the right to watch the programmes in the Slovenian language. And what you have said to me is a little rudeness, so I will demand, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this be discussed in the National Assembly, because I think as a Slovenian I have the right to watch a minority programme with Slovenian subtitles. If we can do this for the Hungarian programme, we could also gather so many principles that the Italian minorities would first ban filming shows for the purposes of the Croatian Italian minority with our money. And secondly, to equip all shows with Slovenian subtitles. This is your duty because you swore an oath in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Your proposal to decide on the request to hold a debate on the response of Minister Majda Shirca to your parliamentary question will be decided tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mr Rudolf Petan wanted to ask the question of the rightful Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will you ask me a question? Here you go, Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister, a minister who still insists. Since the Minister is not here, I expect to receive an oral response at the next meeting. I hope it'll be more than in six months than it was in the last case. My question is this. It is less known that the United States of America has more than half a year soon to be one year old, they do not have their own ambassador in Slovenia. It is true that just one year ago, there was an exchange of presidents in the United States, and then the administration and ambassadors and similar services are also being replaced. However, the United States of America has its ambassador in Zagreb. They were also considered to have changed generations or administrations. At a time when Slovenia has to explain its views on the arbitration agreement for Croatia to other countries, Croatia has an appropriate interlocutor in Zagreb. That's what you say, the right level, but Slovenia doesn't. I'm sure it's a handicap for Slovenia. I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is this the situation of Slovenia in a subordinate position compared to Croatia? And: How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is what the Government says, communicate at an appropriate level with the United States of America, given that we do not have an ambassador in Ljubljana? If the whole matter were not so innocent, I would mention with regard to our foreign policy that the fact that Sweden has announced that it will close its Embassy in Ljubljana is also the fact that Sweden has announced that it will close its embassy in Ljubljana. Sweden is not any country. It is a country that completed the Presidency of the European Union in December, and it must also be said that Slovenia is not a country, as Slovenia has already chaired, and has started the Presidency of the European Union two years ago. This is said to be the two countries that were practically in the chairmanship package. Since it is Sweden, which will abolish the Embassy in Ljubljana, you might think that it is savings at that time. At the same time, however, Sweden has announced that it will open ten new embassies: Kosovo, Georgia, Moldova, Albania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Liberia, Bolivia, Rwanda and Cambodia. Of course, this is again a question for the minister: How does he comment that the developed countries have begun to avoid us? I'm not going to mention how. I think that's worrying, and I expect an answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. You will receive an answer orally at the next meeting. Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for Mr Karl Erjavc, a respected Minister, who says: Why has the Ministry of Environment and Space in reviewing applications and approving applications for waste water treatment projects co-financed by the Cohesion Fund of the European Union changed the criteria, the most important of which is that agromeliorations, which are less than 2,000 population units, are removed from the eligibility of funding costs? The Honourable Minister. The current practice of the Ministry of Environment and Space has been and is also the current official position of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Such a change entails additional costs in modifying applications, not to mention significantly higher local community costs for those parts of the settlements which, after such interpretation, would fall outside the eligibility of co-financing projects. At the same time, the deadlines for obtaining the approval of individual projects are also being extended and the efficiency of European funding in this area is being reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you. I thank the Member for the question. The area to which the question relates is a priority focus for the decommissioning and cleaning of waste municipal waters under the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure. This is for the period 2007 to 2012. You know there are 600 million earmarked for this area, both for environmental infrastructure and for transport infrastructure. The operational programme was already developed in 2007. It also identified the results and effects and the distinction between Cohesion Fund projects and projects co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund; this was also adopted by the Government and transmitted to the European Commission, which is monitoring the implementation of all these environmental projects financed by the Cohesion Fund. The priority focus of this programme is based on the national operational programme for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water adopted by the Government in 2004. The operational programme represents the elimination of the differences due to Slovenia's entry into the European Union, and therefore we must make all the investments that are lagging behind by 2015. Directive (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council 91/271 and the pre-accession contract require that all agglomerations with a load greater than 2,000 population units must be equipped with a sewage treatment plant by the end of 2015. In Slovenia we have 159 such agglomerations. Since sewage systems and treatment plants in agglomerations are also co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, it is a valuable distinction - it is the criteria for selecting operations in the 2007 operational programme for environmental development and transport infrastructure. Between these two funds, the burden of agglomeration is determined in population units of 2,000 population units. The Cohesion Fund shall co-finance sewage systems and cleaning plants in agglomerations with a load of more than 2,000 population units. Amendments to the criteria for the selection of projects, results and effects or other amendments to the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure may only be made by agreement of the managing authority, i.e. by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy, and at the confirmation of the European Commission. I must say that so far no change in the operational programme for environmental and transport infrastructure development has been implemented, and the Ministry of the Environment is still implementing projects co-financed by the Cohesion Fund on the basis of the 2007 operational programme for environmental and transport infrastructure development. As far as this is concerned, there is no change.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter wanted to ask the Minister for Education and Sport, who was absent. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Of course, I know that the Minister is absent, but I want to ask him a question, and I also expect an oral answer. It seems to me that this question that I am about to raise deserves more attention. Climate change, environmental problems, natural conditions, sustainable development bind countries and individuals to a sensitive and responsible attitude towards nature. Given how much time an individual spends in school and in which time his fundamental attitude towards the world is formed, it is very important to ask whether the Slovenian school and the management of the space is such that we can claim that the Slovenian school is also a carrier of housing culture and also an appropriate attitude towards the environment. If we just look at last year, modular kindergartens, how many different responses have they triggered in individuals, how do we respond to new architectural solutions in relation to new constructions or school adaptations; from the choice of colors to the way schools are put into space, all of this raises different questions. Not to mention how we weigh financial burdens when it comes to new constructions that are built in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. The exhibition was recently opened with the title Modern School Architecture, which in Slovenian space encouraged the debate on school space also from the point of view of architecture. This exhibition is linked to a conference organised by the Ministry of Education and Sport among others. And because this is a broader question, I ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Luksic: What importance does the Ministry of Education and Sport attach to the architectural design of schools and the importance of the education process? Because the fact is that changes in the content and manner of teaching also change the architectural design of schools. The question is how content can benefit from new architectural solutions. I thank the Minister for his willingness to respond to my next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The answer to your question will be given orally at the next meeting. Mr Alexander Zorn will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. I ask you about the reasons for preparing new starting points for the call for a new international architectural competition for the construction of a new building of the National and University Library in the face of the facts, which show that in 2008 a contract was concluded for the production and amendment of the project documentation necessary for the acquisition of the building permit. Simply put, everything was ready for the first phase of construction. But allow me a few more introductory words. I'm not going to quote numbers, documents, facts, because I read them yesterday for hours and they're barely manageable. However, a thread is drawn between them, namely carelessness, lack of interest in political, social, financial discipline, tremendous slow land acquisition, the unemployment of the services involved and so on. The project goes beyond all governments, from self-sustainment to and from before it. So, it's not about finding the culprits between the opposition and the coalition, so here we can be completely easy to set up this problem. However, it must be said that in the past mandate, the project has been revived, has been dead for some time, and has led so far as to enable the construction of the first phase to begin, as, after all, the Court's audit report has found that the corrective measures are largely corrected, with many being corrected. So the project came about for 22 years, so to speak. He was brought to the stage when he could start building, and you stopped him. Do you realize what you have done with this because you will have to join the new project? I ask you: Have you calculated in what time do you intend to make a new call to this phase, as was the case in the previous term of the previous government when it could begin to build? Are you aware and calculated when the NUK3 project will then be completed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Gregor Golobich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, Members, Members of Parliament! The project to build a new National University Library facility, as the question was raised, has been under way for more than two decades. In fact, it is an inconceivable time to prepare a project that appears physically in the mountains of documentation and, on the other hand, in some, let's say, a building pit, currently smothered, for reasons of protection of archaeology. But no more than that. In these short minutes, it would be impossible to summarise everything that has happened during this period, but it is publicly available. This project was also dealt with by the Court of Auditors. You mentioned some of the results. Among others, in this report of late February 2008, the Court of Auditors also delivered an opinion that the contracting authority does not provide conditions for the successful and efficient implementation of the project. It is true that during the period mentioned, there has been some additional start-up, but in terms of additional start-up of the project, which has already been problematic in several respects. And the dilemma at the Ministry with which we were faced was, however, before the next steps, also the emergence of new costs, in the fact that the funds from the Structural Funds were intended for this project, while engaged practically entirely in the projects of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor and the project of the construction of Politechnika, namely, the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and the Faculty of Computer Science of the University of Ljubljana, which allowed us to think about all aspects. In April, 41 recognised Slovenian architects addressed the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology with a letter expressing their opinion that NUK 2 should not be built on almost 20 years old plans and supported the thinking, for a long time in public, for several years, about the call for international new architecture planning, which will also bring solutions to the city and nation, in fact to pride. In June 2009, at my initiative, two distinguished international experts, Dr Kenneth Frampton, professor of theory and history of architecture at Columbia University in New York, and Professor Luis Fernandez-Galiano at the Technical University in Madrid, wrote an assessment of what they thought about the implementation or continuation of this project. Both advised on the implementation of the project following an existing solution and proposed a revision of the programme task and a call for a new tender. After the revision of the programme task, there were also many speeches in a number of consultations led by the Ministry's professional services with representatives of the National University Library, with the new director, the Central Technical Library of the University of Ljubljana, and the Ministry of Culture is also an important factor in these institutions. The overall conclusion of all these meetings was doubtful about the current programme baselines, taking into account the long process of project preparation and the fact that during these twenty years we have recorded the terrible development of information and communication technologies, including the transition to digitisation, which all directly affects a different user and technology aspect of the organisation of modern libraries. The consideration of this programme task and the fundamental rationalisation of the project is also relevant in situations where it is necessary to consider providing resources that allow the digitisation of the project, exploiting the spatial potential on this land, has also been subject to the dilemma of whether it belongs to the Central Library of Humanities, CTK. These were all the subjects highlighted by the library’s representatives. On this basis, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, adopted a decision which you mentioned. We plan, in this decision it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that, with the accelerated work on the definition of new programming baselines, the construction for the execution of the call and the definition of the programme task and the execution of the call for proposals could be completed by 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to complete your answer. Please, Mr. Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you have said the things I know, yet you have not answered the essential question. You'll probably start from scratch, that's from the beginning. How much more is this going to cost than if we kept him from where he was brought? Second thing, the project has been updated several times, lastly, I think, in 2007 and certainly does not hold that it is completely obsolete. And third thing, Mr. Minister, are you aware that you have entered the living sand of Slovenian financial and other non-discipline, bias, problems, building lobby, architectural lobby, competitions, correction of competitions, complaints and all that the project will distance us from and leave behind. It is also said that this will not happen in this mandate of yours, but you will leave it to the next term. Have you calculated, Mr. Minister, whether this is worth it or knowingly presented something that is financially barely manageable? As I understand it, this is some kind of building and planning architecture and financial barn of Auggie. The best way to end it is to break it down or drive the river out, and yet you start from scratch. Is that really appropriate for you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u204	Please, Minister Golobič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much. In a lot of ways, I'd like to join you in your thinking. You asked me if I counted or if it was worth it. Now, it was not clear whether in a financial or political sense. In politics, they often think in this other sense. But as you've already learned, I'm not particularly talented for this second thought, and these reflections don't move me, so I don't have a problem walking through the sand, even in this territory. In fact, I think this logic, this agreement that you're putting too much of a political risk if you ask a fundamental question and you tell Auggie's barn that this is what produced this 20-year agony in which everyone was more or less year-on-year more clearly that the project would not end well. He did or did not do, sometimes with some steps he also caused additional costs. For me, it was a key assessment of the architectural and library profession, so I told you who all the references were, it wasn't a decision overnight, it wasn't a personal decision by the minister. The Minister's personal decision was to address this problem with all seriousness, responsibility, because with this facility this nation and this Ljubljana will live for the next 100 years when it is built, I believe that, this is not a delay, this is not a rejection of the need or whatever, a reduction of the need for such an object Slovenia to acquire, but a desire to happen in the maximum correct and quality manner. Perhaps this is an illusion, we will see, I believe that there will be a lot of interest here, also the concern of the National Council for Transparency in all these procedures, and it is commendable to think about it, and your question in this sense is entirely in place. The funds have not been used a little so far, that is true, but most were used to rebuild the old NUK facility, to rent buildings in Leskovsk, which are a replacement location, deposits of NUK, to acquire land for archeological regulation. All of this remains to be taken into account for the future. Part of the costs in this sense are irreparably lost, it is understandable, but whether to continue on the wrong path and lose some time here or return to the starting point, but not to the zero, we are not on the zero, but to some starting point in terms of software origins, there is some reasonable risk and a reasonable decision, perhaps in Slovenia we rarely reach it. Here the government has listened to the arguments, and I also think that with the arguments that I have given you and which led me to this consideration, this decision will allow me to pass any future judgements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Likar will be happy to ask the outgoing question to the Minister of Public Administration and to the Secretary-General of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Minister and Ministers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. According to media information, last year the anti-corruption commission moved to new business premises and also hired 13 new employees. This led to an increase of €1.05 million last year, which is 51% higher compared to 2008, when the Commission's functioning costed €694,000. In a new location, the Kosovo Commission has 1172 square metres of office space, which amounts to 49 square metres of space per employee. We can compare this with a smaller two-bedroom apartment. In addition, it must be said that last year, according to information, a group of six ministers was set up; I do not have information if it works; it was led by the Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who is expected to seek savings in the field of material costs and also in the field of labour costs. I therefore ask the Minister of Public Administration and Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: How do they comment on such a contribution by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the saving of state independent authorities, as it would be appropriate for them to adapt to this difficult economic situation in a country that we have witnessed since the beginning of 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u208	Please, Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u209	President, thank you very much. Mr Member, - yes, under my leadership, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under my leadership, has formed a working group, under my direction, in cooperation with the ministries responsible for the functioning of the ministries covering the public services, in which we have prepared ways of saving measures to reduce public spending. This has also been a success in important work in 2009 and 2010, of course within our ministries. There we are competent and there we have also achieved savings in both years in important work through a common common approach. But how the Government acted in the relationship, as you yourself said, of independent state authorities, I can tell you with three guidelines. We respected the independence of the state authorities, so we allowed them to prepare their financial plans, taking into account their status, their needs for normal work. The Ministry of Finance was the one that also presented the savings framework to the independent state authorities, and, in a significant part, the state authorities joined in with the austerity measures that we have introduced in the sector ministries. Last but not least, the Joint Savings Action, which also affected independent state authorities, the Ombudsman's officers, public information Commissioners, the Anti-Corruption Commission, received an intervention law on wage reduction, like all other civil servants, by 4% in 2009. In the short term, Members and Members will receive at the table a proposal for the extension of this law, as we estimate that in 2010 it is also appropriate to assess this measure in public sector wage policy as still appropriate for the reduction of public financial expenditure. The government did not interfere violently with the plans of the independent state authorities, as they proposed. This is what we consider to be the level of political culture that we must pursue so that, of course, we can continue to call these authorities independent. However, I would like to point out that the recommendations in the area of the funds they planned have taken very seriously. Moreover, it is true that the anti-corruption commission is a result of the actions of the former government, which I do not want to repeat here, but all have resulted in a reduction in budgetary resources. On government intervention - this is seen from the existing budgets, this is not necessary in the media - of course led the situation in the anti-corruption commission to the stage when the current government was awaiting the OECD warning, a warning from the Council of Europe and international institutions, which warned that intervention in the material situation, in the form of illegal employment, the completion of systematic work among independent state authorities does not mean the proper conduct of the current authorities towards this important independent state authority in the fight against corruption. As a result of this, of course, the Anti-Corruption Commission programme, which, as you well said, represents an increase in the number of employees and further the search for appropriate business premises for such an expanded scope of tasks or the occupied capacity of the staff required, this anti-corruption commission programme has been adopted by the current government on the basis of all international recommendations that what has been done in the past constitutes unacceptable conduct.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the Minister's response? Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much to the Minister for that answer. However, the independence of these bodies, such as the Anti-Corruption Commission, would probably be more likely, in my view, in the direction of the Commission's operation than independent institutions, not as much as the limitation of material costs, these are labour costs and other material costs. Because this consumption of this anti-corruption commission as an independent and independent body is higher precisely because of moving to a new location, for which it is necessary to pay a good EUR 28,000 monthly rent for, as it is said, 1,172 square metres of office space, which is quite expensive if we compare rent with Rotondo in Vienna, which is said to be one of the most expensive locations in Ljubljana, and is the price of 17.50 euros per square meter. By May last year, the anti-corruption commission had no such costs as the premises currently used by the Ministry of Public Administration, and also, in state ownership: there are no officials among the 13 new employees. I ask you whether this situation really requires an unreasonable waste of taxpayer money. Is there any possibility of a more rational attitude of employees or heads of state bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u212	Please, Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u213	Your Honor. As you know, the state authorities are helping themselves to find the spaces relevant to their work, on the basis of existing arrangements. I can inform you of a letter returned to the Commission in response to the Ministry of Public Administration for the prevention of corruption on 7 January 2009, namely a request for assistance in obtaining the relevant business premises. "By letter dated 22 December 2008, the Ministry of Public Administration took note of the spatial issue faced by the Commission's envisaged human resources support to prevent corruption. The number of employees is expected to increase from 11 to 40. For such a number of employees, the premises in which the Commission is currently operating are not sufficient, so the Ministry of Public Administration has asked for assistance in finding suitable premises. The starting point for," this is our responsibility, "to determine the size and equipment of the business premises used by the authorities of the state administration, is the criteria for the regulation of business premises for the purposes of the state administration approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in June 2007. According to the criteria, the Commission would need approximately 900 square metres of business space for 41 employees. Area covered by work, monitoring and auxiliary spaces without technical and communication surfaces. Regrettably, the Ministry of Public Administration does not currently have premises of such size as could be intended for the functioning of your commission..." and so on. In short, individual budget users, including the Anti-Corruption Commission, were at that time in a position to find suitable premises for themselves, i.e. in accordance with the criteria set out by us. Then she must have found you. The National Assembly has confirmed the Commission's budget to prevent corruption and, once again, it is an independent state body. The current government has been warned by international organisations that the interference with independence with the decoupling of material capacity for the work of independent state bodies constitutes unacceptable interventions which the current governments must not practice. Once again, the current government in the cases of these institutions will not follow the pattern of the previous government [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Please, peace in the hall! Mr. Pojbich, peace in the hall! Mr. Likar, you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that this type of problem is a real non-economic waste of the country under conditions of economic and financial crisis, which, as it is said, has considerable financial implications. However, it is also important in view of the negative message given by the Government to citizens and citizens by doing so. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 246a of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly vote to hold a broader debate on this issue at one of the future meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you very much. On the proposal of the Member of the Council of Likar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Public Administration to his question of the matter of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2010, in the framework of the votes. Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary. For several months now we have witnessed numerous irregularities, probably illegalities, in the operation of Ljubljana drugstores, and this is almost certainly also in connection with the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the interest of profit at the expense of the sick people, because the public institution does not have the primary task of making profits, there are clearly many irregularities, illegality and, of course, the resulting profit is directed quite differently from what it should be. We are witnessing that Ljubljana's pharmacies exert great pressure on their employees, making mobile phones - witnessing that this is true, is also a letter from one of the employees, who is anonymously. I also received a few other information, or anonymous information, that this is true. I believe that you are familiar with this content, too, has already been in the media. What we can be particularly concerned about, however, is the use of illegality, especially in the field of drug sales. Galen products, which are primarily intended as supplements in the supply of medicines themselves and which can be carried out by legislation by pharmacies, are more than obvious, this is also claimed by the Agency for Medicinal Products, are used in the essence of the purchase or sale of medicines manufactured in an industrial way in Poland. Here they repack them, then even more expensive than they buy them or than in Poland they are comparable or the same medicines, they are more expensive here, of course in different boxes and employees have the task of distributing these medicines as a matter of priority. This is worrying from two headlines. The first is that this is illegal, and the second is that the result of such aggressive sales can have a major impact mainly on over-exploitation of medicines. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Have you taken any action on these irregularities? How do you view yourself as a minister and, of course, also as a government or as a ministry on these irregularities? But above all, I want to know: What measures, in accordance with your powers or what you can do, will you take to address these irregularities, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] to protect our market with medicines, and above all to prevent our people from over-drinking in drugs, and to stop the pressure, the mobile phone that is present in Ljubljana's pharmacies. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u219	Dear President, honourable Member! We've already acted, it's a short simple answer. With regard to your indications relating to the sale of medicinal products which do not have a marketing authorisation, I explain that in accordance with the rules governing the field of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia, the competent authority for medicines and medical devices in the Republic of Slovenia is the competent authority for medicines. It shall carry out activities within the framework of its competences aimed at the protection of public health. I can inform you that a decision has been taken, not only for Pharmacy Ljubljana, but also for some others, that these medicines must be withdrawn from the market. In accordance with this law, sales are no longer allowed online.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much. You want to complement the Minister's response? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I am very glad that this conclusion, of course, has come to. However, look, Mr. Minister, it is obvious in our legal system or in the law governing this area, that there is a clear void or that matters are not fully addressed, because even in the debates, particularly the representatives of Pharmacy Ljubljana, it was often observed that they act legally, in accordance with the legislation. Obviously that's not the case, so it might be worth thinking about, and I'm also asking you: Would it not be appropriate here to make one attempt or effort on the part of your ministry to make a change that I am convinced is not such a big deal that all this legislation is, of course, complemented and corrected? For it is unacceptable that, on the basis of one such legal vacuum, our legal system is, above all, our patients, our patients in this way, I can say, an unethical way to abuse, but by this amended law, in fact, to prevent this system or this area from being regulated in the future. I agree with the answer that you have already stated to me in writing that you have in the government's plan to make a comprehensive change to this law in the coming year, but, look, one such short amendment to the law, I think that by then a lot of things could be settled. And I'm asking you: Would it be worth considering, or would you consider? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u223	I thank you for your suggestion. We are working on this, but already the rules in force have made it impossible for the Agency to adopt the measure, as I told you. The problem is bigger and wider. At the moment, only this explanation, the biggest shout and cry of irregularity, raised competition, which has another medicine, which is significantly more expensive. We are constantly discussing the pricing of medicines and the pharmaceutical industry and their prices. But we are working on this and I also thank you for your initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Grill, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we still hold a general debate where this constructive way would really shed light on all these irregularities, which can only be seen in the press on the operation of Ljubljana's pharmacies. Finally, there may also be a solution to be found here that will be able to help or if such a ministry can decide to amend this existing law. Above all, I think there will be a lot of useful answers here if we go into some comprehensive preparation of the pharmacy law, which should then be under consideration in the following year. I think this kind of discussion would be helpful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 26 January 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be posed by mag. Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much, President. Good evening. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister Svetlik, I'm not going to say anything else. But my office in Celje was followed by a large number of individuals who received benefits from disability insurance. It will probably be necessary to figure out why there are so many of these individuals, I think there are now about 50 to 60, just in the Celje area, those who want to talk. I can say that many also do not want to talk, because it is hard to come on the day with a payment sheet of 230, 240 euros - 270 euros was not on any payment sheet - and everyone is embarrassed to talk about it. All point to the problem of harmonising this compensation, since this has sometimes been coordinated in the same way as pensions, but after the adoption of the Transfer Coordination Act, this is no longer the case for individuals and households. Coordination is also lagging behind in the growth of living costs and an important fact is that the vast majority of beneficiaries of compensation are the only income, but in some cases it is so low that adequate social security is at risk. Last year you have answered this question on two sides, so I am interested in concrete steps, if any, in this area. I hope you'll tell me something new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u228	Please, Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Members, I can tell you something new. That, in the short term, which means in the coming weeks or months, the problem of coordination will not be solved in a different way than it has been in the past, but in the coming weeks or several months, several laws governing social welfare will be dealt with if we succeed in bringing the decision-making process to an end. We hope that all these laws will be adopted and implemented in the course of this year or will begin to work immediately after the adoption or at the latest at the beginning of next year. These are: the law on eligibility from public funds, the law on social security benefits, the law on social security activities, the law on long-term care, the law on personal assistance and pension law, if I list the most important. They're going to bring a lot of news. Among other things, these laws aim at: increasing social justice in the distribution of public funds among citizens entitled to individual benefits, reducing poverty in individual categories, and also the long-term sustainability of this system. More specifically, given that you have opened this question, it will also be about redesigning individual social transfers, changing, in particular raising the level of the lowest ones, and in individual cases also determining how to coordinate later. When you mention this particular case, let me say that by means of the Social Security Benefits Act and the Law on eligibility from public funds, as is now planned, it is envisaged that those who are and are permanently unable to do so will be able to raise to a significant extent their minimum remuneration, so that they can ensure decent survival on this basis. To this end, we have also made life-cost calculations so that these transfers can be adjusted accordingly. I fully agree that for individual recipients today, especially if they depend solely on these benefits, this aid is too low to survive with it. Both the public and decision-making bodies will be informed in detail about these proposals in a very short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Miro Friday will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. When the new flu appeared, Slovenia ordered 800,000 doses of vaccine. 180 thousand doses are already in Slovenia, and only a few more than 102 thousand Slovenians were vaccinated during the declared pandemic, or a tenth of the expected. Last week, though, there was an agreement that we would receive 30% less vaccine, that is, 560,000 doses. The essential parts of the GlaxoSmithKLine contract relating to the purchase of vaccines are still unknown to the public, although the financial conditions should be known, the dynamics of payments, the price per unit, as they are ultimately state resources, the consumption from public funds, as also noted by the information officer. The Council of Europe also requested a rapid investigation with suspicion that the pharmaceutical industry could be the one that helped declare the pandemic by the World Health Organisation. Mr Wolfgang Wodarg, a recognised epidemiologist and at the same time the President of the Committee on Health of the Council of Europe, suspect that the very questionable proclamation of the pandemic was the creation of evidence and marked this act as the greatest health scandal of this century. Mr Wolfgang Wodarg is not who he is, and if the pharmaceutical industry on the Council is willing to do everything to help bring the World Health Organisation pandemic to light, then it is more or less clear to these large pharmaceutical corporations that there is only a small meal of bargaining with each country to convince them where they will buy the vaccine, what kind of vaccine and at what cost. And obviously this has happened in Slovenia. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Who negotiates with pharmaceutical companies on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and on what basis has it been estimated that a million and more people will be vaccinated in Slovenia? I also want to know: Have you initiated any investigations into why such a mistake has arisen and, apparently, for the state and public finances, also a harmful contract? The difference between the scheduled and the vaccinated is enormous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u233	Dear President, honourable Member. Your findings and listings are known from the means of communication and one general broad debate in Europe. Slovenia and our ministry acted in the same way as other European countries. The Ministry of Health has taken a decision on the quantity of pandemic vaccine for the Slovenian population on the basis of recommendations made by experts of the Institute for Health Protection, Clinic for Infectious Diseases and Hectic Conditions, Public Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, Medical Inspection, Medical Faculty, Commission for Medical Ethnic Affairs. And personally, I've had a lot of conversations about this. I have to tell you the situation that was in June and July when the flu appeared when we had the first cases in Slovenia, if you will remember the graduates from Greece when panic reigned. I am just glad that Slovenia had the vaccine, that people could protect themselves and that the flu had ceased or failed to reach the extent it was. The first experts and the international agency predicted two necessary doses for vaccination. Later, when we had a signed first contract, we learned from experts that there would be enough for one dose of vaccine. This was the reason that, despite the decision of the Government and the reserved funds with the other supplier of the contract, we did not sign. Slovenia concluded a contract with GlaxoSmithKline for 800,000 copies of this vaccine, counting that two were needed, then one was needed. What you said was that I agreed to a 30% reduction in the negotiations last week. Today, as I have been informed, but I have not seen the text, Italy has published this treaty in its entirety. I have to say, when we negotiated with the supplier, there was no possibility of negotiating the price, but there was a possibility of negotiating the payment deadlines. I mean, I will see all the documents that Slovenia has negotiated for better payment periods than other European countries. Among the first ones, we have negotiated for the lower supply, and still, Mr Petek, I must say that I am very concerned. We had many dead people in Slovenia. We had 1831 cases of flu confirmed with tests, and yesterday we had the last fatality. And today we have a patient who is in a very serious condition infected with H1N1 virus. And every day we have about 8 to 12 patients in Slovenian hospitals who are infected with the H1N1 influenza virus still, every day. So here, please understand, of course, one great responsibility at the Ministry of Health to have a vaccine or not to have a vaccine. And if we didn't have a vaccine two months ago, if I may say so, your question to the Ministry of Health would be much more shaken and more obvious. At this point, I am pleased that your question is more informative. The experts assure me that another wave of flu can still come. I am happy, with medicines and vaccines, Slovenia is ready if anything else happens so that we can vaccinate. I regret that because of many consciences and mistrusts, people have made such a bad decision to protect themselves. We'd have fewer deaths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your reply to the Minister? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, Minister, for this part of the answer. I don't think it's that much of a dilemma to have or not to have this vaccine. I think it's a bigger dilemma to have a vaccine, but how much? Because this gap between ordering the vaccine and how many people have been vaccinated against the flu in Slovenia is enormous. I'm sure you'll agree with me on that. Of course, that's not all. Tamiflu and some other medicines, such as Relenza, oseltamivir powder, were also obtained against influenza, and these medicines were given only in November to those pharmacies that are in the public health system or who are on call. 14 days ago, you started from the warehouse of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia to deliver these medicines to all pharmacies without having to order these medicines because they simply do not need them. You haven't informed these pharmacies either. They delivered these drugs to them at the door. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Who ordered these medicines to be supplied to those pharmacies that had not been ordered, without specific letters and without specific instructions? I want to know: How many of the above flu medicines does Slovenia have in stock and how many have been used?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u237	I'm going to disappoint the Member of Parliament. I don't know how to answer your question. All I know is that all the drugs, Temiflu, Relence, are in stock. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which I always participate, has not decided to release these reserves. I don't have that information to come to the pharmacy. Your information is not correct that there are only some pharmacies, all pharmacies are public, we do not have different public pharmacies. I apologize to you, Mr Friday, and I will answer your question in writing within the next two days because I have to ask. I don't have this supply information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose a debate on the response of the Minister of Health to the question raised by the Member States. As the Minister himself said, he could not give an answer to a certain part of the question, and it is also in the interests of the State and in the interest of the people that we should discuss this issue thoroughly in the National Assembly. For there is also a suspicion in the public that it was not so much about the inability of the Slovenian health authorities, but that because of this great disproportion someone could benefit from it. It would also be useful to learn how the Republic of Slovenia will participate in this study on the highly questionable proclamation of the pandemic by the World Health Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Member Mir Petk to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question of the Member of Parliament, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2010, in the framework of the votes. Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u241	Dear Mr. Secretary, Mr. President. The Coalition Treaty states: The main objective of the coalition partners in the field of employment is to strengthen the labour market through the growth of employees. As unemployment is increasing very rapidly and the current government is talking a lot about measures to address this situation, but there are no and no measures, we are very concerned in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I, as Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In the future, how will the Government and the Ministry take this issue seriously and, above all, be sufficiently responsible?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u242	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u243	It is not possible to attach this to existing measures taken by the Government in this area. Unemployment is rising rapidly from day to day. It's approaching the critical limit of 100,000. The measures taken in this area proposed by the Government are intended for a short term. I am afraid that these measures will not achieve the objective that has been set in this area. Mr Minister, you have already very negatively surprised us at the end of 2008 when you said, quote: "If the number of unemployed is about 16 thousand more than now, it will not be a disaster." And an old proverb has been confirmed saying that the sittin doesn't understand the hungry. Of course, Mr Minister, both you and the whole government will never be able to understand what it is to be unemployed, what it is to live with 500 euros, because it is simply hung on a state nursery all the time. Whether you were doing something or nothing, your salary came to your account monthly. I am not saying, Mr. Minister, that you have not been a very good worker in your field. I must also say that I am very concerned, as well as your statement, when you said that if we reach 100,000 unemployed, there is no tragedy because we have had so many. I think that's an unacceptable statement. Mr Minister, I must say that every job lost and every unemployment tragedy is a tragedy. The tragedy of each individual, family, and enormous family trauma. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: What additional measures will you propose to curb the further increase in unemployment? When are you going to do that? Will you also take into account in the proposals any of the sets of proposals made by the Slovenian Democratic Party? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Please Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u245	Your Honor. You state some claims, yours, which I will not comment on further, and also some claims that do not fully hold. The increase in unemployment was very rapid, but it's calming down very quickly. We expect, of course, this steady growth in unemployment even this year. At the same time, I must say that growth in employment is also expected as a result of the establishment in economic movements; these two are not excluded. In addition, we recorded around 14% of the unemployment growth in the previous year, when the crisis year was marked, compared to 2008. Which means that so many more people who have been registered at the Employment Service have also been employed. Or, in particular, they were employed, those registered around 48,500, which means that the income in unemployment has increased, but at the same time the outflow has increased back to employment, which can also be interpreted as a result of the structural adjustments that we want to make to move jobs and workers to sectors where productivity opportunities are greater. In this regard, I can also say that, for this very reason for 2010, and for the next year, we have significantly increased resources for this purpose, for employment policy, both for monetary benefits and for active employment policy measures. This year we expect to include some 80,000 unemployed in the programmes we are offering. In particular, the emphasis here is on training, which also allows for the transition back to employment. At the same time, it is important to stress that the state itself, not the ministry and not the employment policy, are not the creators of new jobs, that this depends on economic trends, which we both know well and to a certain extent on public services, but they are of minor importance. On the second part of your question about how much we will take into account these proposals, I can say that we have examined these proposals made by the SDS in detail. Many proposals are consistent with the ongoing activities, as well as with those under preparation. Sometimes they seem too similar. Even if they believed we didn't look at each other. In particular, I can comment on the employment proposals that have been given. Among them, for example, we agree that an analysis of the implementation of intervention laws needs to be made. Let's wait for the data from 2009, then this analysis is possible. It is true, however, that we are constantly monitoring the effects of these laws and that we also have continuous data if you want to verify how many are involved, how these funds are being used, and how the inspection works, which then controls the programme. The increase in unemployment benefits also makes sense in terms of creating safe flexibility. This is also one of the proposals and will be taken into account in the new labour market law. The extension of unemployment benefits makes no sense, since we already have a comparable duration of this benefit compared to other countries. Other countries have extended this in times of crisis, but we are now at a comparable level. We also note that many people are employed just before the right to compensation expires, so that these effects need to be taken into account. It is appropriate to increase the involvement of the unemployed and employees in education and training programmes during the crisis as this proposal goes. I must also say that the inclusions in these programmes have been increased and that they continue to increase. Furthermore, the Government already has labour market analyses, we do not think we need any new analytical services. Here we have employment services, we have Umar, who is constantly monitoring developments in the labour market, but of course we are somewhat skeptical about the possibility and accuracy of forecasting needs, especially in turbulent and crisis times so far we have not received a good methodology to enable this. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Would you like to complement the Minister's response, Mr. Pojbič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u247	Mr Minister, of course I am absolutely sure that this government and I will not say that you are thinking the same thing, but in this government you are an integral part of this government, which you are talking a lot about this social state, you have, in my opinion, a problem in the basic understanding of the concept of the social state. I am sure that if you think it is possible and therefore understand the social state in such a way that the social state is the one who pays off these social transfers, social assistance and so on, completely wrong. I am sure and in the Slovenian Democratic Party I understand the social state completely differently. I am convinced that the understanding of the social state is correct in a way that provides its citizens and citizens with work and, of course, an appropriate payment for the work they have done to ensure their normal livelihood. Then these people wouldn't need social assistance. You yourself said in the introduction that not everything depends on the Ministry of Labour, the family, of course not. Here it is extremely important how the Government works, what measures the Government takes in the whole area of adoption and on this basis we could understand that the Government wants the social state to understand in such a way as to ensure that citizens and citizens can carry out their work, so that they have a job and thus ensure their livelihood.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. So I ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much for this additional question. The description of the social state is very different. In those very days, we celebrated one anniversary of the famous Bismarck, who introduced the social state in Germany, and we copied it a lot. I wouldn't repeat that, but given what you asked, I would like to provide you with two supplementary information. Firstly, it is a matter of ensuring work and the right to work. Here we will have to save quite a hard nut, cracking a hard nut, precisely in this sense, because our right to work has now been called the right to work with a precisely defined employer, not to say in a precisely defined workplace, which, of course, also causes a great degree of flexibility. And your proposals are also going towards increasing the flexibility of employment, which we will also seriously examine and put into proposals for new legislation, so that this right to work will then be more easily enforced due to greater flexibility than at present. As far as payments are concerned, as you can follow our activities, the Government is expected to adopt this week a proposal for a minimum wage law that provides a decent remuneration for all employees. This is also our responsibility. Of course, our responsibility and our competence are not to interfere in the wages of the real sector that go beyond this level. Both sides, both employers and employers, will agree on this and will make sure that these salaries are appropriate. However, in accordance with the international and domestic obligations we have accepted, we will make sure that the minimum wage is at an appropriate level. And that is what the social state must ensure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Mr. Pojbich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u251	Mr Minister, we have both found something very important that we need to work very well in the field of economic policy and economic policy. This policy is one that can guarantee that basic quality of life for all citizens and citizens in the social field. I am also personally convinced and we are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that much more needs to be done in the area of economic recovery. If we are to combat the further increase in unemployment, we need to create conditions for a better economic climate that will result in the opening of new jobs with higher added value, the reduction of taxes, tax relief, the promotion of self-employment and measures to accelerate the implementation of large national projects, the development axis which could significantly accelerate the growth of the construction and processing sector. This is precisely why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party a range of measures that could certainly contribute to what is missing in the proposals of the current government. We are aware and we want to help this government. We are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we are together on the same ship. We're interested in Slovenians and Slovenians, and we're interested in those unemployed people who are now 100,000. When these measures cease to work, the short-term ones you have been talking about, and I am afraid they will come to the Employment Service for another 30 to 40 000 unemployed. This can have enormous consequences and disastrous consequences for the future of this country. You know, we all understand and know how these old ones run, there can be a huge hole in the pension register, in the health register, a huge budget deficit, a huge external debt, all of it with such a number of unemployed, can cause a spiral to be thought of. Spirals, however, can result in a breakdown of public finances. And that would be extremely catastrophic for this state. And I hope and believe that this government, all the ministers in this government, are aware of it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u252	Mr Pojibič, the procedural proposal that you do not run out of time will then be nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u253	Mr President, I'll make a suggestion. I therefore propose that we hold a broader debate on this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u254	Good. On the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbič to hold the National Assembly at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the Member of Parliament, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Stefan Tisell will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u255	Nicely greeted! Dear Mr. President. Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Member, Members of Parliament. Agricultural subsidies for restricted areas are intended to preserve production and cultural landscapes in areas defined as special restricted areas. We have 86.3% of these areas in Slovenia. The European Union has 2,237 square metres of working area per inhabitant, while in Slovenia it has only 880 square metres per inhabitant. That is why it is important that we allow people to still be involved in farming. The agricultural subsidies granted by the State for a specified purpose, the promotion and development of agriculture and the conservation of rural areas, are unprotected from the money gap. If the Enforcement and Insurance Act in Article 102 limits enforcement to wages, pensions, wages and various compensations, it certainly forgets the subsidies which, in graves, constitute a large part of the income provided to the farmer, which, in the case of a farmer living exclusively with agriculture, in many cases represents a large part of the income provided, as paid to the employee. On the part of the State, the subsidy is a means to ensure that agricultural policy objectives and strategies are met. That's why I'm asking the Minister, Mr. Milan Pogačnik: Therefore, why are these objectives and strategies to protect agricultural subsidies against redundancy on money at least until a certain amount is protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u256	Please, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Milan Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Member, for the question. Ladies and gentlemen! Banks shall make a rubble following enforcement decisions, as established, on the basis of two laws, the Enforcement and Insurance Act and the Tax Procedure Act. As stated in Article 102 of the Law on Enforcement, there are no restrictions on agricultural subsidies, there are salaries, pensions, wages and the like. Therefore, in this case enforcement is not exempted from payments of subsidies paid by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development. However, the Tax Procedure Act mentions in Article 159 that enforcement is not carried out for grants and cash on the basis of favourable loans, as well as other State aid under law, but does not apply to certain activities and in this regard also to the conduct of basic agricultural and forestry activities. Therefore, these resources are exempted from enforcement only as long as they are obtained as State aid, but not if this is obtained as a subsidy for basic agricultural and forestry activities. I must also say that the scheme for the payment of subsidies within the European Union is extremely strict and that there are more and more "controls". Just this year we are meeting with a large number of "controls" due to the completed five-year period of entry into the agricultural subsidy scheme. And there are quite a number of errors that we are trying to address intensively. However, some have also been made because of bad decisions in the past, even because they wanted to help in some way too much to obtain subsidies and to ease certain conditions. I think we're gonna have a lot of trouble with that. Right now, we are correcting the entire GErk system due to mistakes made in the past, and this will cover about 40,000 farms. Therefore, the Member State is not sovereign in this respect as regards the exemption from enforcement when it comes to the funds of the common agricultural policy, but must also follow to a certain extent the rules of the European Union. However, we think that your thinking is interesting, because in some cases, when farmers receive not only subsidies for the development of activities, but when they receive, say, funds for investments, these funds must be spent on purpose. In such cases, those funds shall be allocated after the farmer has made the payment and when it is found that the procurement and payment process is completed, it shall be credited to the transaction account. However, banks reach out to a large extent and enter into a transaction account. And since we are also fighting at the ICGP for the best possible income position in the implementation of agricultural policy measures, we must say that we are the most successful in drawing on European funds in this area, as we are drawing on 96% of all available resources, and this is, as I said, a system of professions. As a result, there are certain differences, as some funds, as I said, are intended to offset income due to natural constraints and others due to the payment of superstandard services related to the implementation of public goods. In this area of public goods, such as organic farming, as you have already mentioned, the area with limited factors, I think it would be, and we will do so at the Ministry to give an initiative to examine the issue you have opened to the competent ministries. The competent ministries are the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer mag. Tesel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for the almost comprehensive answer. However, I would like to take the initiative to amend this 102nd Article of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, because I come from specific cases, from Kozjanska, where there are hills and where there are small farms, high-lying and difficult processing, but some people are still here and have somehow given me this initiative. For many of these small farmers are unemployed and may have a farm subsidy primarily as a means of survival, at least temporarily, for the whole farm and family, and there is a possibility of staying in these areas. Therefore, the amendment to this Article 102 would mean that, in the case of a rubble to a small farmer representing a central financial resource, no money would be lost. Despite the fact that the subsidy under the Social Protection Act represents income to a farmer, we must be aware that it is almost entirely intended to invest further and to buy farm funds, which is then spent and maintained by the entire family. If I illustrate with a practical example: a farmer who lives on a small, high-lying farm by working the land and integrated production is unemployed, and a small farm and a poor crop does not allow him to survive. So, as I have given the initiative and it has also been almost adopted, so that we will go in this direction, however, to amend Article 102 of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and the agricultural subsidies could be secured against the rubble by a certain amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u260	Please, Minister, is there anything else you'd like to explain? Thank you very much. Anton Kolarič will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! 68 years have passed since the battle in Dražgoša, which meant a bright ray in our history. 34 years have passed since the establishment of a mighty monument, which is now falling relentlessly. I ask the Minister of Culture: When will this monument be restored, since it is a monument of national importance? I've known the effort for years. I've been going to a party in Dražgoša for over 20 years. For years and years there has been talk about this restoration, but I think that the monument should not be a disgrace to us, but pride and I think that it should be restored as soon as possible with the congregation. I'm asking the secretary: What is being done in the area of monument renewal? Will we be able to see him again in January 2011 at the second year of celebration?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Culture Maja Shirca Ravnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u263	I could have. There is no obstacle that we would not see him, for we are all aware that the monument in Dražgoša is included in the law's prescribed proposal, which we know under the name "cultural tolar", which was in the National Assembly. Nominal denominations are named projects inside which oblige the country to participate in co-financing reconstruction not only of cultural heritage, libraries and so on, but also of monuments. The monument in Dražgoš was declared a monument of State importance eight years ago and the owner of this monument is the municipality, the municipality of Železniki, which should be concerned and could, if not, not know why she did not respond to an invitation that was possible and published in accordance with the Law on Cultural Tolar. In the Railways, they did not respond to this call or responded very late, so they were not included in the intervention list in 2009. That is why I am reminding the congregation today that it can do so this year, for the call has been republished. By 1 February, it is available for a response and is waiting there for 62 or almost 63 000 euros, which could help from a problem that is not small, because the monument is actually failing. Not only need small interventions, just some reconstructions, but perhaps larger interventions and it can be, of course, that it will not be enough money either. But as you all know, since the law on "cultural tolar" has been passed, here in the National Assembly, it means that half of the funds for investment or any other programmes must be contributed by the municipality and half the country. I would also be happy if this restoration were not to happen, one we call shame and one incoherence, to continue to drag on. It is also true that it is not only the Ministry of Culture, within the recognition of the state character, that can participate in such rehabilitation, but also the Ministry of Labour, the family, which is ultimately the department of the guardianship of monuments. He can also participate there on the invitations. But since the Ministry of Culture’s professional service has already recognized in the past the importance of the rehabilitation of this monument, as well as others, it has been placed on a list which, as I say, is enshrined in the law and only enough organisation of the municipality of Railways, because documentation needs to be prepared, projects need to be prepared, specifications need to be prepared and then called upon and not delayed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Finance will be asked by Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all those who insist, Madam Secretary and both Ministers. In recent times, we can rightly be concerned about our country's leaping debt. Concerned about the increase in debt over the past few years, or on some long-lasting curve, it has been used for projects that will start to recover funds through other channels. In fact, we can reasonably expect that debt from years ago to come back. However, it is concerned about the rapid increase in debt between the end of 2008 and September 2009. Because at the time it was a 12.6% increase in GDP and debt growth has reached such a height that, in fact, we are not yet reaching the European Union average, but we have a small, closed economy, which is why it will be even harder to cope with the repayment of this debt. It is also concerned that the debt is primarily intended to patch up the budget holes or that there is an ever-increasing gap between the revenue and expenditure of the budget, and therefore the state is repeatedly and again in debt. And of course, the question is: How long will this trend go on? Where would the marginal value for the debt still be bearable for the Slovenian economy? What measures are envisaged to reduce this trend? As has already been said, some long-term objectives may also be compromised by this country's indebtedness. A warning by the European Union has already come and these warnings will need to be answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u266	Please, Minister of Finance. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you very much. So last October Slovenia was hit by an extremely deep economic depression. It was partly because we are a small open economy sensitive to the world market situation. In part, because we have previously been extremely exposed to global capital markets. We have increased gross debt from 15 billion to 39. During this period we have created a large external trade deficit, financed by debt. Then one part of the accumulated capital was our companies, financial institutions, moving forward. After this period, in the event of a decline in demand, in the event of a fall in mutual trust and a psychological crisis, it could happen, as has already happened in some small countries, for example, Thailand is such an exclusive case then Argentina and so on, in order to put pressure on the economy to see that it is rapidly repaying debts. The final result would be economic depression of unfathomable dimensions. So it's a decline in living standards, a dispersion of relationships. Now you can look at some cases. Professor Krugman, American Nobel laureate, this is called the power of the feedback loop. A return loop, an economic reaction, an excessive response of the economy to this negative impulse caused self-destruction of the economy if economic policy does not respond. This reaction to economic policy is what we call the economy of depression. It has been known for its great economic depression and similar measures have been implemented by us. We simply went to the capital market. At first it was possible mainly with short-term instruments, I will read a little more. The money sold through the treasury to business banks was deposited at the European Central Bank, brought back, traded for extra euros, and then the capital offer revolved around in the first months. At that time we also provided the majority of the economy only with reprograms in a somewhat shorter period. Half a year, one year and some of the affairs that are reflected here along this corridor are the result of the fact that we have not provided stable longer-term funding. This is guaranteed only through the issuance of bonds. The first one was in March and then it went on, and then it went on with guarantee schemes that reduced the risk of banks. In the case of guarantee schemes, I think we will give us a report to Parliament to assess, we have had more problems. For the first time, children's diseases have spread throughout the summer, because some banks have been taking unfairly on auctions, and now these schemes at least companies - companies run normally, but also banks - banks on the European and global markets run normally. In the case of natural persons, demand is lower. For a simple reason, because banks simply extend credit for a year to some unemployed people or people who have lost a source of money without having to enter into this relationship that we wanted to establish with the State guarantee for a transitional period. So the demand is a little bit lower here, but we're still maintaining it and building on it. If I read now some of the information that the Member wanted. That's what it sounds like. The first 2009 debt estimates show that the government budget debt has increased by €3.9 billion. The deficit will be 1.7, which means that much more of that loaded into banks will come back with additional income. This represents an increase of 10.9% of GDP. The estimated state of government budget debt at the end of 2009 is estimated at EUR 11 billion, or 30.9% of GDP. It is important to mention here that a large part of the 2009 debt increase was also due to the pre-financing of the state budget in 2010 of 1.4 billion euros. That's what we put in the banks and now we're going to draw back slowly and we won't have to be in any more debt. Part of this pre-financing was made through the issuance of 12 monthly treasury coins of EUR 8 billion and part of the issue of the 15-year bond. It is also important that most purchases with issuances in 2009 were charged to Slovenian banks as deposits with different deadlines. In this way, the state budget has allowed banks to keep the share of their deposits on the balance sheet unchanged and to be prepared for a potential deepening of their financial operations and the fight against the financial crisis. At the end of 2009, this phase-out began, which is also reflected in capital markets. Sanitation is expected in a way that will increase public financial inflows in the wake of economic growth [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and we will block the increase in expenditure, so that as a proportion of GDP, public debt will fall again during the period of the pipeline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your reply to the Minister? Please, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Since this is an extensive theme then raises additional questions [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u270	Supplement only, no further questions asked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u271	Complementary questions, of course. Because debt, as I said before, can jeopardize long-term projects. Slovenia's integration into the OECD is foreseen for May 2010. How are we going to go with such a high debt through? Are there obstacles because we are known to have been overtaken by Chile and Israel from this package of countries we are with? The other thing that's worrying is that most of this debt is owed to our domestic banks. Here are two aspects. The first aspect is whether these credit arrangements were of such a nature that we didn't get credit outside. The other aspect is, of course, that domestic banks are running out of money to invest in the reconstruction of the Slovenian industry. Of course, I would like or would like a logical commitment of such a high number if we were to set up a new Krko, a new production for Clio 4 in Revoz, to finally small and medium-sized companies such as Bioseparata, Hermes Softlab in Škofja Loka and so on, that these are such companies. Finally, you have probably heard that in the EU, PIGS has been synonymous with Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain, because these are their initial shortcuts. And another S, it won't be right, but it's very dangerous to include Slovenia in this group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to explain? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Dear Member, all kinds of things were open. I think it is important that our debt remains below 50% at the height of measures to reduce the recession pressure on our economy. Between 30% and 40% of GDP will move, and then, with GDP growth, it will start falling towards those 25 and the OECD will certainly not object. I think that the OECD has assessed our anti-crisis measures, I think it has assessed them as modern, which is not unusual, because we have carried them out as instructed by the European Commission and together with developed countries that have been able to cope with the crisis. We were part of this world. For example, Hungary, which sold out all its commercial tigers, could no longer afford it. It was a blow to their standard, to their self-image and so on. We have embarked on an expansionary fiscal policy, this is what the textbooks predict, now with economic growth, when private investment, private demand and demand for exports will increase, and then we will go into a restrictive fiscal policy that we are currently planning to maintain by maintaining the level of expenditure. A group of crisis ministers decided that there should be no substantial tax hikes. We will try, at these tax rates, to maintain and restore the fiscal balance back to its old state. With economic growth, however, the debt share in GDP will decline, even if the debt does not fall, and sometimes in the surplus that we will create in the light of the development policy measures we are implementing intensively, I think that for the first time in Slovenian history, in such a modern way, we will increase the tides so much that we will also have an surplus comparable to some small successful countries, such as Finland, maybe Austria, before the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! The following fact encouraged me to ask the question. I'm talking about a student who was born in March and is a student of medical school this year, a regular and conscientious and good student. However, since she will be 26 years old this March and is attending a medical college whose studies are not only six years old, but plus one year's undergraduate leave will be based on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, based on the Income Act and on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care of Deprivation for an estimated EUR 4,000. It is not just that this student, who has studied regularly, who has studied regularly and faithfully, will be deprived. Such a fact shows inequality among students, and this inequality is likely to increase and cause a lot of problems also with the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, which again restricts or gives rights to an additional 26 years of age. It is true that it is right to set a limit when those going to study this study have to complete, but it is also true that the laws that are written are inanimate because they do not take into account that we have different studies that have lasted differently and that these laws also set different options or should set different options but not. It's about the fact that it's the law that writes life and not the other way around, that life is the one that writes laws. I don't think it's a lonely case. There's gonna be a lot of cases like this. The saddest part of this story is that many students know how to make use of it, find holes in the legislation, and impersonally sign up for other colleges. In short, to prevent all this, I ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology: Is the Ministry of the Interior already preparing or preparing or attempting to make appropriate changes to the law stipulating that students' rights according to the length of the study, according to the month of birth, which is not last important, and in the light of all the circumstances, will be the same?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u276	Please, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Mrs. Vesna the Soccer wrote these two letters. I read both of them and, unfortunately, only at this stage, when you addressed the question to me - earlier this question was addressed to a number of other addresses, which is nothing bad, but, as I say, I have already learned this content myself. The lady was very reasoned and well illustrated the situation in which she was in and in which she was not the only one. I am also aware that even if this moment went into legislative changes, this could no longer affect it. And it is so much more grateful for her efforts to raise this issue, which is important that others in a similar situation do not have such problems and unpleasant experiences, this experience of inequality that you point out and that I agree that it is not fair, that it is not appropriate and that it points to anomalies in the system. The recommendation given to her to enter a fictional study will also solve her problem, which she rejected, shows that the system as such is not correct. The laws you mentioned, which she highlighted in her letters as problematic - that is why you have also addressed questions to other titles - of course, laws are not within the competence of the higher education department. The law on higher education at no point defines age or establishes correlations between the rights of a student and the age of a student. When it comes to individual rights, they are governed by sectoral laws. The Ministry of Higher Education has two such rights, if I may say so, under its own resources, to subsidise transport and subsidise accommodation. And there's no age limit. However, they are in the laws that you mentioned, income and, above all, health. The latter caused problems for students who reached the age of 26 and lost health insurance, which was a topic which was opened several times by the Student Organisation of Slovenia on the Student Affairs Council. There was an initiative, and I supported it myself, so that, following a reduced procedure, the Ministry of Health would return before the system law a previous regime that did not have this limit. At some point in the previous term, the Government proposed this amendment and set this limit at 26 years. They promised that the special working group, the Ministry of Health, the special working group of the Council for Student Affairs at the Government, led by the Ministry of Health, would also include representatives of the SOS, to re-examine this initiative. That's what we talked about at the last session. But that's one piece. The whole problem, this and the problems with these fictitious entries, the other anomalies mentioned here, will have to be addressed for a systemic change in higher education as such. What intervenes here and which obviously causes or in any case causes major problems is the complete absence of the possibility of implementing the concept of all life education in higher education systems as well. This is a serious concept, a concept that is in place in the world, even in Slovenia, we will have to take a firmer path and in some way ensure to every citizen and citizen that at any age he will decide to go into the process of higher education in order to enjoy the same rights at that time in life as all other students. We think about such changes and many others that concern the very system of higher education in the Ministry. Once implemented, this will also have to be followed by the sectoral legislation mentioned here. These age limits will have to fall, and I have, in consultation with the rectors, the dean of all private and public colleges and the directors of institutes after a new year at a working meeting in a long debate, reduced the range of problems the current system poses, from incontinence when it comes to funding to systemic anomalies, one of them is mentioned here, throwing a bad light on Slovenian higher education and does not contribute to its transparency, fairness, equal opportunities for access to knowledge and everything else that matters. So we're going to try to address this problem through this question. But speaking of health insurance, in this part we are already trying to solve this problem with a faster novel for students who are suffering from this equality right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u278	Thank you very much. You want to complement the Minister's response? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer. Apparently, two or three times the call fell to the ground. On the contrary, Mr Minister, you are right, this is the question of the Minister of Finance, this is the question of the Minister of Health, who is supposed to solve the pressing issue, but you are probably still suffering the consequences because students are turning to the competent ministry and have this right. And we wanted to draw attention to the need to harmonise what is a common problem in all these ministries. Maybe there's just advice, a recommendation, a note from the lady, I'm talking about the lady, but this one probably thought she had other students and students in her head who are probably experiencing the same fate in order to get the diction to stop her rights from the sentence 'upplemented 26."changed "with the study year in which you complete." Perhaps only one diction, one substantive change, is needed to improve the content of three roof laws. However, given that the end of the student's rights in this year is no matter what, even if they have studied that it is very difficult to get a job today, but of course any such diction, which for at least a few months helps these students, is welcome. And that was our purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you very much. He wants to comment further, answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u281	Just for a little while. I say, we are open to such initiatives, unfortunately in this case, the lady did not turn to us to get answers, our thoughts, but it was no big deal. The topic is relevant and on the spot. It raises broader questions. By the way, this city is not intended to advertise knowledge, science, literature. Tomorrow there will be the Knowledge reaping, there is going on, but for example, now is the translated book of the Rippers of Malcolm Gladwell, which accurately tells you how the righteous idea of some calendar border causes dramatic social effects. And this amendment, which is proposed here, of course, addresses this particular problem. Of course, each of these novels is new. You know what it means to open the Income Act here in the National Assembly, you know that this is one of the worse things that every time the Minister of Finance imagines in nightmares. I will also pass on this initiative to the Student Affairs Council. In any case, as I have said, in the changed system, these limits, which were based on some naive idea to have such an impact on the length of the study, I think that it was mainly the intention that they turned out to be completely dysfunctional in this direction, was causing problems. Anyone who wishes to avoid these restrictions has taken the path that this lady has also been advised and has rejected for principle reasons, i.e. with some fictitious entries and other maintenance of status. This will need to be systematically reconsidered and arranged so that such frauds are neither suggested nor needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice welcome to the ministers. Dear Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik. HIT's gaming company has recently been in trouble, just like the rest of the economy. The reasons for this are, we agree, multifaceted - from the global economic and financial crisis, the reduction of the purchasing power of the border area, the increase of competition in Italy and also in other countries to which we are bordering and also the planned construction of major tourist and gaming complexes in our vicinity. Last but not least, wrong decisions in the past and in the march online gaming. In previous statements by the company’s leaders, as a measure that can provide for greater stability and a way out of the crisis in the long term, investment in tourism has also been mentioned as a prerequisite for attracting guests from a wider international space, multi-day casino guests and destinations. Recently, however, information coming from the HIT company itself has been releasing and redistributing virtually all the personnel in charge of the development of tourism within the HIT group. The State of Slovenia is the majority owner of HIT through the Court and Kad, so Mr Minister, I ask you: How can the state support such a policy, since it is contrary to gaming legislation, which, among other things, provides that gambling is also a function of supporting and developing tourism? Finally, these measures are also part of strategies, and also in this exit strategy, which is being prepared, which is talking about the development of tourism, as one of the sectors that has a positive growth even during the economic crisis. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Please Minister of Economy Dr. Matej Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Daniel Krivec. In principle, the issue of gambling in the area of the Ministry of Finance, where both companies, Kad and the Court, are, in fact, asking about the area of tourism, which belongs to the Ministry of the Economy. I must say that the issue is very relevant because it is often evident that these funds collected from this title, in particular concession fees, are not spent on purpose. However, I must say that the Act on Gambling provides in its 74th Article for the purpose of spending concession fees on special gambling. After deduction of 2.2% of funding for co-financing of disabled or humanitarian and sports organisations, these funds are channelled halfway into the state budget for the development and promotion of tourism. The second half, however, is devoted to local communities in the surrounding tourist areas for the management of a friendly environment and for tourist infrastructure. Let me stress that from this point of view, the Gambling Act therefore provides for the purpose of using concessional duty rather than casino business policy. So that, as a rule, this is not in conflict with the law on gambling, this problem that you are alerting to. It's something else. That it is very important and that a casino or that a company such as HIT is aware of the importance of investing in tourism, that it is not only, I will say, a simplified gaming salon, but that it must invest in the development of a tourist destination. At the outset, when the administration was appointed, I expressed my expectation that they would be fully aware of this and that they would maintain tourism as one of the priority activities of HIT, both in terms of investing in infrastructure and the development of all other parallel gaming activities. In fact, the logic is that a tourist destination must be marketed as a whole and, of course, offered to the guests as much as possible. I must say that the Ministry of the Economy does not have its representatives in the HIT supervisory council or any of the ministries, because, as Kad and the Court have said, they do not, however, belong to the Ministry of the Economy, but I can agree with you at this point, as I have said, that tourism must remain one of the priority activities of this company. I find it difficult to assess business policy because I don't have any concrete data either. Because, as I said, if we had our representatives in there, it would be easier to judge. However, in any event, as I said, the concession fee which is collected under the Act on Gambling must, of course, be deliberately directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Darko Menich will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, who is absent. Then you'll tell me if you want an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u287	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear fellows, good-bye. Despite the absence of a minister, I will ask you a question and ask you to give an answer at the next meeting. It is very commendable that in primary school in the school year 2010-2011 a new one-year selection subject is introduced among a number of selected subjects to protect against natural and other disasters. We are all aware of the theoretical and practical importance of the content of this subject. Advocacy needs to start early, and the primary school population is best suited for such activities. I ask Minister Igor Luksic: Who will be able to teach this selection class? If this subject is to be taught by an outside fellow worker, what education will he have to have, and what pedagogical qualifications? The curriculum is ready and confirmed. What about the preparation of textbooks? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u288	Thank you very much. The Minister will respond orally to the next meeting. Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u289	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister. There have been increasing traffic accidents where alcoholised drivers are responsible, but the measures in force so far have not brought about the desired success. Driving under the influence of alcohol is an offence, but it would be right for legislation to change and treat such an offence as a crime and should also be treated as a crime because it is a deliberate or deliberate act and the consequences of such acts are more than obvious. The offence is governed by legislation which also prescribes a prison sentence. Especially when it comes to premeditated actions, where you can also consider driving under the influence of alcohol and illicit substances. I am not an expert in assessing how much alcohol alcohol is being consumed, but I believe that this limit needs to be clarified, and everything else must be a case of prosecution by official duty and also sanctioned. I am not a proponent of the withdrawal of the driver's license and of the re-examination of the driving licence, as this has so far proved to be a failure. But I am in favour of giving the driver a treatment. However, during treatment it is prohibited to drive vehicles. The same should apply to drug users who are considered in society to be patients and more and more, who, like alcoholics, have, of their own free will and consciously decided to consume illicit substances. So I'm asking the Minister: How did you establish a road safety order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u291	Mr President, Members, Members of Parliament, honourable Members, thank you for your question. Transport safety, road transport is a priority for the Ministry of the Interior, so we are focusing on preventive actions, and this year we have drawn attention to the consequences of driving under the influence of alcohol. The police have particularly tightened the control of alcoholic drivers during the holidays and we can be satisfied with the results. We have also attracted other ministries and representatives of civil society to these activities. Together with the Ministry of Justice, Transport and Health, we have also taken additional measures, particularly the imposition of even worse sanctions on drivers who drive under the influence of alcohol and those who drive too fast. On the basis of the amendments to the regulations already provided for this year, the police will deal more strictly with such drivers as they may be deprived of their driving licence from one to two years after the enforcement of the decision. However, if a person is again guilty of a steering wheel during the driving ban, this could be considered a criminal offence. However, the seizure of the motor vehicle is also foreseen. In this case, it will be a returnee, and such work will be automatically treated as a crime which will have priority in court as well. There are also larger fines and a ban on driving a motor vehicle for beginners, professional drivers, driving teachers and escorts if they commit such offences as: driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, psychoactive drugs and other psychoactive substances that reduce the driver’s ability to drive. A higher fine by the admission of penalty points is also provided for the opposite direction of the road or road reserved for motor vehicles with two or more lanes. Once the changes have been implemented, the re-acquiring of the driving licence will be possible only in the examination centres to be appointed by the competent minister and at the time of submission of the medical certificate to be obtained by the applicant before the commission to be appointed by the Minister responsible for health. Increased supervision of the work of the school and the management of technical checks should also be highlighted among the measures. These controls are carried out by the Internal Affairs Inspectorate, and also by police officers from a specialised traffic control unit. All these systemic measures are already in place and are introduced into the government's 2010 programme. This Friday we begin with a public debate with the professional public, and I expect that, with proposals for legislation in the first half of this year, we will carry out the whole procedure in the government and come to the National Assembly with them. In addition, at the end of last year, police carried out an analysis of the critical points on the motorways, paying particular attention to the signalling. As I was informed by the Ministry of Transport, additional traffic signals have already been put in place on the basis of police recommendations. Thus, an additional 57 traffic signs were put in place, mainly for the prohibited traffic in one direction and 32 illuminating tables for the wrong direction of travel. We have also given special attention to changing the way in which road traffic controls work. Police directors and police station commanders will be responsible in the future for the development of a traffic and safety policy for road traffic control in their area. To put it domestically, the solution will go directly to the problems where they arise, not so much into statistics. The test method was introduced at the beginning of this year on the Police Administration of Celje. The first results of the modified mode of work achieved a positive response both between police officers and road users. So, in the field of road safety, we are very active at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the proposals we have formulated not only remain at the level of ideas, but are already in a serious and real process of implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the Minister's response? Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u293	Look, administrative and financial penalties have brought no improvement in road transport, which is worrying. Alcoholization and drug abuse among drivers are devastating. However, it is appropriate for road accidents to end with a fatal outcome or with permanent disability for road users. More and more responsible for serious traffic accidents are among truckers. The transition is increasing, and unknown truck drivers are increasingly threatening other road users. It has also proved that these drivers are not immune to alcohol consumption and the use of illicit substances, so it would be appropriate to act quickly and effectively in this direction. The accident that happened in the tunnel must make us think that not everything was done in this direction. In July 2009, I reminded the Minister of certain irregularities in freight traffic and proposed certain changes, but the Minister did not take me seriously at the time. Today, however, we face the events that took place in the Troyan tunnel. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Will you be prepared to change your opinion this time and act in favour of all participants in transport, as far as freight transport is concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, for an answer. Although the question has gone beyond that and this is already an additional question, the Minister will decide for herself whether she will answer the additional question in a broad way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u295	Thank you very much, President. This is an important issue and at the Ministry of the Interior we take every warning very seriously how to improve road safety. Therefore, there may be some further clarifications. Road safety is a process in which it is impossible only to achieve long-term results through the single activity of one of the ministries. This can only be achieved through measures of wider importance, such as transport, technical, medical, educational and preventive measures, which are not only within the competence of the Ministry of Interior or the police. However, that everything we did last year produced fruit, and this good fruit, is also shown by statistics that show that the number of victims who lost their lives in traffic accidents in last year was less than the number 200, 171, which is much less than in the year before. Thus, by the number of dead from the tail of the European scale in 2009, we came to the middle of the scale. As I mentioned, with the results for 2009, we can be satisfied, which clearly does not mean that we will just give up and not seek any additional measures that will further improve this situation. This further improvement is expected through stricter measures for alcoholised drivers, as I have already said, and by establishing a new Road Safety Agency and four new laws: driver law, vehicle law, public road law and road traffic law. These laws will address in a new and consistent manner all road traffic-related problems. The Transport Safety Agency, which will also be operational this year, is expected to bring together in one place all systemic measures to ensure better road safety and achieve the objectives set out in the national road safety programme. And in the framework of these measures, all the concerns, the honourable Member, who you have already addressed to us and I have not overlooked them, will certainly be dealt with, but will be dealt with in the place where they belong, that is, in some expert teams, who will be able to find the right measures for this. As it is said, the first public presentation and debate on the proposed amendments to road legislation will already be held this Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u297	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary and everyone who's still here! I would like to ask an oral question to the Minister for Education and Sport, and I also expect an oral answer at the next meeting. The theme of my question is music education in music schools in Slovenia. A number of questions have been addressed in the past with music education, and this is not surprising, given the importance of music in human life and how music can be taught after two tracks: in the context of regular music education in compulsory primary school and in the parallel system of music schools. Above all, the availability of public music schools and the network of music schools has been widely under the scrutiny of the past, but now the new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education has provided the public music school's position at a time when admission to a private school threatens it with this novel, so that it can be said, after that, that the Minister is implementing the announced care for music education, which he said would be a priority issue, one of the priorities of the Ministry of Education and Sport. However, there are also some other dilemmas relating to music education and music schools, which concern more human resources issues and instruments as well as the subject. Here often there are questions related to how, according to artistic achievements and the popularity of choir singing, it is possible that the assembly is not in the music school program as a special form of music, how the possibility of orchestras, additional instruction and similar matters is possible. For all these reasons, which I have pointed out to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšić, I am addressing the question: What could be said about the Ministry of Education and Sport's actions, given the account of ensuring the quality of public music schools in the last school year or calendar year, and what are the plans for the future? I expect, as it were, an oral answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. Madam Minister, I ask you, because we can read the pedal over time to buy a new special vehicle with a water cannon: Why do we need it? As far as I know, we already have one of those water cannons - and I'm curious: How many times has it been used, and for what purpose? Since I am also alone in the Committee on Home Affairs, I do not recall saying much on the Committee or talking about the additional equipment that our officers are supposed to need, especially about bulletproof vests and some things, but not really. In this regard, I am also interested in: How much does a thing like this cost? Has a call been made available? Do you have any offers yet? From which budget line do you plan to provide funds for purchase?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u301	Dear Member! Thank you for your question. Water cannon, sounds pretty awful. But that's also the sound of a gun, a rifle, automatic weapons, handcuffs, a stick and so on. These aren't nice things, but they're essential to police work. The police are a repressive body and are therefore also using coercive means. What kind of coercive means can be used, very precisely defined by the law on the police, and among them is the water cannon. However, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior to provide the police with statutory equipment for the professional and safe conduct of its work. The water cannon represents standard police equipment and is available to every European police. The Slovenian police currently have one water cannon vehicle, which has been involved in police training since 1987, as well as the protection of all major security events, where violent behaviour of individuals or groups and serious violations of public order and peace are expected. The decision to purchase a new special vehicle is based on the findings of the users of this vehicle, i.e. the police, which for many years has been pointing to obsolescence and longevity and frequent vehicle defects. Thus, the vehicle does not meet modern technical standards, problems with regular maintenance and up-to-date repairs due to the lack of spare parts. Thus, the existing water cannon has already become dangerous both for the people and for the police who manage it. The initiative and the launch of the procurement procedure in February 2009 has not yet been completed. A public order was carried out. Several tenders were received. The choice of the cheapest bidder was made. However, you are certainly aware that the State Audit Commission has annulled the alleged error in the procedure and that the matter is being renegotiated. So that the procedure is not yet concluded, and I cannot give any information on the price of the new rolling stock. Members of the special police unit shall participate in the training of European specialised units for the maintenance and establishment of public order and peace. All units are also trained to use a water cannon. For example, when it can be used, we have seen many in the last few years around the world, to the happiness of no one in Slovenia. Thus we have seen in France, Germany, Greece, and elsewhere how protests have developed to destroy property and endanger human security. It is the duty of the police to prevent such threats and destruction and to protect those who carry out peaceful demonstrations. It is clear, however, that the water cannon is not intended to trigger labour protests, by which workers legitimately and legally point out their poor social position, to the unfair pay they receive for their work. Such claims, unfortunately, came primarily from the opposition's mouth, and they are demagogic and irresponsible. The water cannon, as a means of enforcement that the police legally manages, is designed to prevent chaos and destroy everything on average, at least theoretically, which can happen anywhere, even in Slovenia. We hope he doesn't. He's not here yet. However, since the hope of managing responsible security policy is not sufficient, it would be extremely irresponsible if the Ministry of Police leadership did not ensure that such a potential case is adequately prepared at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mrs. Jeraj's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u303	Thanks for the answers. Then I would like to know what we will do with this existing one. What are you going to do with what we have right now? Not only from the opposition or at least from our own species, you could hear whether this was meant for labour demonstrations. Many wonder about this, not just in opposition. I'm just wondering if there's actually some security assessments. Well, what you've said is something in general can happen at any time, anywhere, but then we should probably get something else, because some kind of terrorist attack can happen, and we're buying a vehicle that specializes in water cannons. And even as I said, the debate on the Internal Policy Committee did not inform us about this when we discussed the purchase of equipment to equip the Slovenian police. However, the matter appeared in public after some kind of association and similar were foretold. It was likely that such comments would be expected if we were to buy this for labour demonstrations. I wonder: Is the assessment of the security situation such that we need it?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Katarina Kresal, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u305	Thank you very much. So I would like to stress once again, it is the basic labour that the police in their ranks must have and, thank God, if they will never use it. For example, we have 5,600 police officers carrying guns, guns, at least. Last year, a gun was used only once. The police must have certain resources in case something happens. And if nothing happens, we can only be satisfied. This does not indicate that such a purchase would be inappropriate, unnecessary. According to this logic, cops wouldn't need guns, they wouldn't need sticks, they wouldn't need anything, but unfortunately, they're a repressive organ, and they need it. And the old water cannon is from 1987. It's as old as earth. And what will happen to him? Yeah, I think he's going to retire. I didn't ask my colleagues, but I don't think it's possible to do anything that's completely amortized. And since there's a minimum of one water cannon the police have to have, we'll just get it. Because it's something completely normal, like getting guns, getting guns, getting bullets and something else. Of course, we didn't exactly hang that on the big bell. Also in the funds earmarked, for example, for personal equipment, we have spent only €5 million this year, special police equipment, next year worth €10 million for such purposes, that is, for concrete equipment, for security, for better police work, that is the amount that does not come out. Perhaps if we knew that this was something of special interest in Parliament, I would have highlighted it in particular. And I have no reason to hide too much, given that all the proceedings have been conducted in public, transparent and public tendering, for the public to collect bids, that the matter has been running since February, it has clearly become interesting at this point. But it is not that because we are in crisis, we expect something so big to happen that we need a cannon. No, no, no. It's either today or two years from now. Let us hope that it will never happen that we should use it, just as it is with an old cannon. But, as I say, hope is sometimes not enough to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Anton Kolarič will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please, Mr. Kolaric.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! I'll be brief because there's no minister. In the public eye, it has been observed that recent reviews of all cases relating to a particular natural person have been carried out in the District State Prosecutor's Office, namely Zoran Jankovic, Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. These reviews are to be ordered by the State Attorney's Office. I want to know, are they holding this information? And if that's the case, I'd like to know: What types of controls are involved, what are the legal grounds for such examinations, and since when have the prosecutions carried out reviews of cases involving only a specific person? I would like to request a written reply in accordance with the business deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr President, I look forward to the reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the next meeting. I must say that I initially hesitated whether to ask the Minister of Transport or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, it seems to me that the issue, which has become very topical, is this danger for transport corridors to go around Slovenia, is already slowly beyond the framework of the Ministry of Transport, and I think that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should also ask what my purpose was today. I want to know: Do you, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, already support the adoption of an agreement on the cross-border flow of the sixth priority corridor between Italy and Slovenia? This is the corridor, which has been adopted as one of the thirty priority projects within the European Commission, which runs from Venice through Trieste, Divaca, Ljubljana and beyond towards Budapest and which includes this cross-border project Trieste, Divaca, Koper and Divaca. I was also concerned by the statement in the media that Mr Vojko Vovk, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a member of the media, a sharp criticism of this agreement, which was adopted between Italy, Slovenia and the European Commission, even though representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participated in the mixed working Slovenian-Italian Commission all the time. I therefore ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Are such statements by one of the High Representatives, who, as I have seen, is also a candidate for Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia, then an official critical position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards this agreement? And with this in mind: What will be the policy towards Croatia in relation to the flow of transport corridors? Does not the Republic of Croatia, like Italy and Austria, also express the interest that railway corridors across Slovenia, would go to the detriment of Slovenia on the Zagreb-Maribor-Reka route?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u311	Thank you very much. I'll just read it. On 20 March, the Minister of Justice said at an 8th urgent meeting, when we discussed the Law on Lawyers or the constitutional initiative with which our referendum initiative went to the Constitutional Court: "This proposal was made within a mixed working group. The solutions to be addressed have been forwarded to other competent authorities, in particular the cooperation of the Ombudsman, who has repeatedly pointed out in his annual reports some shortcomings in the legal system, particularly when it comes to the legal system for the issue of the disciplinary regime." He went on to say: "The fourth novelty is the disciplinary regime. Here we have intervened in the regulation so far that, in particular, the recommendations of the Ombudsman have been taken into account, and have also given a certain role, among other things, to the Ombudsman in the initiative to initiate disciplinary proceedings against a lawyer, while strengthening the powers of the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice in certain cases, when it is assessed that disciplinary proceedings should continue." In addition, what is most important from this quote, I quote him: "We were well aware of this at the Ministry. When we had a conversation with the Ombudsman this year when we considered her annual report on justice, we also addressed this issue. At a meeting with the Ombudsman, we agreed that the Ministry would include its comments in its first version. I stress, as the text has been prepared, that text has been forwarded to the Ombudsman for an opinion, with an explicit question as to whether such an arrangement seems appropriate to her. Her answer was yes. The Minister of Justice therefore justified the adoption of the Law on Lawyers, as well as the need for a constitutional assessment of our initiative. I'm going to tell her, I'm going to tell her, so little obvious, how she could have missed it, how she didn't see it. With the document I have before me, she proved to me that Minister Zalar was lying. That is why I expect an appropriate response from him at the next meeting. My point is, the minister didn't tell the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u313	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President! Dear Madam Secretary! Despite the fact that this is the last question in line today, I think it is equally important. Local media, whether it be television, radio, newspapers, magazines, are certainly an extremely important segment of informing our public, our people, especially in rural areas, in smaller places. National media certainly do not devote so much attention to such people, both in the field of information and other content. This is why we have been faced in these areas in recent years, in the last period with a lack of funds for such media and are facing major problems mainly because some who have special status cannot also commercially market their media. That is why there are major problems here, and especially the media or here I am talking specifically about televisions which have a special status of regional importance. In their image, they make an important contribution to information, including in providing many educational content, cultural content. And given that they have already faced many financial pressures, problems, especially since they have not been systematically regulated, even through invitations to tender. We know that through the calls for proposals, just such media have been provided with significantly less money than they would have earned by their status, but they are now facing new problems, which will certainly pose major problems in ensuring their continued operation. This is the transition to digital television, as Slovenia has also decided, which is also, of course, the right thing to do, to move on to a new form of broadcasting, that is with a digital signal. And this year there are these televisions, three of whom have this status have already been given permission to do so, which is, of course, linked to additional funding. According to my information, this is almost 100,000 additional costs per year for each television. So, Madam Secretary, I would like to ask: Is your ministry or you facing this issue? In any way, will you try, in a systematic way, to arrange for some additional funding, for such televisions are of special importance to our space, special attention, and, finally, people expect to have such televisions in their environment to report to them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Culture Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u315	Now we're in a rather intimate atmosphere, so let me first take a brief comment on your highlights. All the media are important, I'm not saying they're just tools, weapons, and a big responsibility to them. Social responsibility lies with them, regardless of whether they are local or national. We agree on the importance of this. Those who have special status as defined by the Media Act are said to be of particular importance, non-profit, local, regional, as well as student media, say that they have particularly great difficulties because they cannot so much market because they are of particular importance, which means that they are somewhat limited in advertising, which is correct because the distinction between commercial and those of particular importance is justified. But because of their special importance, they have always had the opportunity to obtain additional funds from the country, of course very, very clearly articulated in what way, and by amending the last amendment of the media law, which says that such programmes, so-called programmes of non-profit importance, the state co-financed at 3% as much as the contribution from the previous year. That's about 2 million and a half euros. And these funds are distributed for their programmes, i.e. for electronic, printed and all other non-profit media. That means they're being assisted. How will it be in the future when, you know correctly, we're crossing, well, now we all know, from the analog to the digital system? Here is the first question for every household, because it will have to change if it has an older receiver, it will have to collect the matter that will allow for this change. It is also likely that this will raise the question of whether the socially weak may be able to obtain some help, as has been the case in some other countries. But your question is not going in this direction, your question is how, then, in the future, on these so-called multiplexes with the price that will arise, which you say goes into hundreds of thousands of euros, will endure or how the state will compensate for these hardships. On the other hand, their pressures will not be so great, because they will be accessible in a larger ether, circle, width, we are talking about electronic media, because they will have stronger performances, they will not be limited to the local environment, the regional environment. Therefore, at least three regional televisions have already made an effort to enter into that multiplex, which was called by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, because we know that this belongs to their area and that also the law that was approved in the National Assembly, I think that in 2007, the Digital Broadcasting Act regulates this transition in some way. Of course, it does not answer the question you are asking and it will partly have to be answered by our ministry within the framework of changes in media legislation or the new media law. It is difficult to tell you now the details of how it would be, because the topic is still worth studying, even in the light of the various results and also the efforts made by such media or programs to detect what will be the best version. But it is true to stress that they will be essential in a different situation, because they will cover a wider space than they now cover, and they can make better use of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the Minister's response? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u317	Thank you very much for your information. Look, Madam Minister, right here is the problem with these media, regardless of whether this new technology will allow them greater ratings or wider ratings, given their limitations on not being able to advertise that they cannot have so much commercial content, they will not benefit, after all, from being confined elsewhere. Therefore, you will also find and expect yourself, even in the coming months I will really monitor this, whether they will try to find some solutions here because it is necessary to just keep pace with the time, so that the Ministry of Culture, which is first among those responsible, will systematically try to find some additional funding resources here. What you say about users, however, is an individual decision, and this will probably be another ministry looking for an additional subsidy. With your answer, I am partly satisfied that you recognize the problem, you indicate your interest in finding these solutions. If there is not a solution in due course, I will again point to this problem, which is of crucial importance to our public, with a question or another way. Even when you realize that every medium is important, I agree. However, local media are particularly important because national or other media, which are wider, do not report or give out those content that is of paramount importance to the local population, particularly in the rural area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Do you also want to answer, were there initiatives in particular? It is not necessary because there was no request for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u319	Make sure you get it right. I think we will surely, if not elsewhere, finally meet with these answers within the context of the examination of media legislation. It is only true, however, that the distinction between non-profit and commercial advertising programmes is not so great when it comes to the seizure of those funds that might also bring about funds to pay for such conversion into the ether. It seems very important to me that we might think more about whether they would not be confined elsewhere, because at the end of the directive before us, in a way, the Council has heard a lot of thought that the Council is made up of trade and that this trade within the flow of media information is still very important. We know that financial matters are very important. The question is whether it is important for us as listeners, listeners, viewers, and viewers. In local environments, however, advertising is also very specific, it is said that it is more focused on that area and therefore has a different mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-25-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I thank the President of the Government, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. We have therefore broken this agenda item because we will still vote on it. Thank you very much. We're done for today. We'll move on tomorrow. I warn you, tomorrow at nine o'clock, the knowledge of harvesting binds to space.
