ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr. Peter Verlič, mag. Branko Grimes, Dr. Vinko Gorenak at 1:00, Aloise Posedel, mag. Stefan Tisel and Franz Jurša. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. TIME OF DAY – THIRD DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE SLOVENIA RADIOTELIZATION LAW, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Maja Shirca, Minister of Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u2	Nice greetings, honourable presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We are in the final, concluding point of the consideration of the law on RTV Slovenia, and it may be right to make a quick review to consolidate the behaviour and awareness of decisions when adopting this law. Let me first say that the bill retains the basic organisational structure of RTV, but it changes it both by content and competence, in a way that ensures the organisation's optimum functioning in its substantive and business work. The law does not change those solutions that have proved to be successful in practice, and the Republic of Slovenia remains the sole founder and owner of RTV Slovenia. The status form of RTV Slovenia is transformed from a public institution into a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance. This is a particular sui generis arrangement – by the way, the sui generis is already in some way – which the operation of RTV Slovenia defines in law and for unforeseen situations the directions for the application of legal provisions applicable to institutions. This, while ensuring legal certainty, allows for a sufficient distinction between administrative arrangements and a new way of corporate governance. In this way, increased flexibility of action is necessary, while increasing the responsibility of members of RTV Slovenia. A large majority of the constitutional elements of the institution's arrangements are different in the proposal, according to the staff, property, corporate governance system, the personal responsibilities of members of RTV Slovenia's bodies, the way in which they are appointed and the way in which they are financed, if I summarise briefly. The need for a precise sui generis regime stems from the practice of the operation of RTV Slovenia, which shows that the violent coverage of different forms of operation and business with the form of a public institution leads to a number of problems, ambiguity and also to the edge of legality. The special status form therefore means a more transparent operation, as more and more important financial decisions are regulated in the law. The bill therefore introduces certain institutes, such as the way in which members of bodies are appointed, the rigour of determining the level of the contribution without the influence of the executive branch, the greater independence of employees from the public sector's salary system and so on, all ensuring greater autonomy of public broadcasting and also greater independence. The bill also introduces an important novelty, sanctions for administration, in the event of failure to fulfil the public service, as defined, and the achievement of the required shares of programme content, which has not now been achieved. This prevents the commercialisation and preservation of the primary task of RTV Slovenia, which is the quality of the public service, of course also depending on the optimal human resources solutions provided by the structure and the framework of this law. Finally, I should like to say that some important improvements to the text of the bill have been made in the current hearing within the framework of the National Assembly. In particular, Article 3 governing the general principles of the definition of public broadcasting and the amendment of Article 3 to the so-called parliamentary programme, now Article 4, in the context of the public service, should be highlighted. With these and some other solutions, other minor improvements, which we have carefully coordinated in the process so far, we have taken time not only in the context of parliamentary treatment but in the course of careful expert consultation within the drafting of the law, we believe that the law is suitable for final confirmation at this hearing and for the future better functioning of public RTV Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we agree that it is time to rewind our central media house. We note that the law wants to interfere with radio broadcasting with very important principles that follow their content and message to the mission to be fulfilled by public national broadcasters for the benefit of users, so we will also support the law in the third reading and in the final proposed content. The key new points in relation to the applicable law relate to the status of transformation of a public institution into a separate legal person of a specific national and cultural importance. This will make it a kind of sui generis economic society in the national interest. In addition to the specific provisions of this Act, it shall also be subject to the needs and requirements of specific situations in the field of public institutions. The tasks of the national media institution are essential for all citizens and residents in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we see somehow the point in the proposal that public RTV through its programmes provides optimal opportunities for comprehensive information, broad and wide-ranging viewing, while at the same time satisfying the needs of every television user. It is estimated that this can and must be achieved through a public service that gives a hand of market orientation. Commercial activity is now essential for survival in a market-oriented environment, and therefore, with the support of the introduction of such activities within RTV in our parliamentary group, we have no problem at all because transparency will be possible through legal arrangements, and the primary mission of our nationals remains in the public interest. It is necessary, and we agree with the proposaler, that this is in the light of the increase in its autonomy and independence in relation to the political and capital centres in order to achieve the optimal efficiency of operations, which must be directed towards the high quality of programmes, the introduction of new technologies and services, and the high availability of various content for the individual objectives of the group, which must be addressed to all those who make up our territorial space, and also to those who maintain Slovenian identity outside the borders. The design, structure and responsibility of society’s programmes, or its members, are also a key novelty brought by the new law, which we believe is far more appropriate in terms of current regulation. When it is said, we will use our votes to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Milan Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! I do not mean to say that it makes no sense to me, but we are certainly extremely pessimistic about our expectations of taking into account our and even opposition comments and positions, which, three or four times or more times, are in the present proposal of the RTV Slovenia Act. Nevertheless, we took the time and took a close look at the regulation of the public broadcasting area in some other comparable European countries, and our general conclusion is that there are different specific solutions or arrangements everywhere. It maintains that they follow more or less the European agreement on the financing and operation of public broadcasting, namely the 1997 Amsterdam Protocol, by which Member States are given sufficient freedom to decide on the form of operation and funding – with only one significant restriction – that financing must not affect market conditions in the EU or be contrary to common interests. So we are really allowed to arrange our national radiotelevision according to our own Slovenian measure and conviction, which national RTV will best benefit and satisfy the wishes and needs of Slovenes and Slovenes. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that we have not been very happy at the time of the almost final processing of the proposal. While the proposaler cites quite a few sound goals to be achieved by this new law on RTV Slovenia. These are, if I mention only some of the most encouraging, such as increasing the autonomy of the public service in relation to the political and capital centres in the area of information and programming content creation; ensuring greater efficiency of operations aimed at improving the quality of programmes, faster introduction of new technologies, greater accessibility of content for individual objectives of the group; complementary legal solutions that are not in line with EU law and the transfer of requirements into the internal legal order, with a focus on transparency in the functioning of public RTV and ensuring the implementation of the principle of financial transparency; and what else would be found. To this end, the status of transformation of the public institution RTV Slovenia into a separate legal person of public law of particular national and cultural importance. As such, the institution is also supposed to be registered in a court of law. Unfortunately, in this sense, we are not all of the same conviction and have different opinions on the reality of achieving the objectives mentioned above. Thus, no amendment of the opposition parliamentary groups has been adopted, nor has the proposer dealt too much with the form of the sui generis law, which, in our view, is inappropriate for RTV Slovenia, since the new status does not in any way guarantee greater independence from political and capital influence, which I mentioned as one of the most important objectives of the bill. The claim that such a status form will ensure more transparent operation and business of RTV Slovenia is also not convincing. For many years, the positive operation of the institution has proved that there is no need for such a change. Not to mention ignoring the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Press Union and coordinating RTV Slovenia's press unions regarding the general principles of autonomy of journalistic work, which also bind the institution after the constitution. And not to mention the Association of Cultural and Artistic Creators of RTV Slovenia, because you probably received their letter from all fellow Members and Members. Last but not least, as you are all aware, our Legal and Legislative Service notes a number of shortcomings and a questionability of compliance with the content of the bill in question with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal system. I think there have been such reservations, concerns and comments on dozens. Unfortunately, little has been taken into account in the final version of the proposal. I don't recall a case of a bill that would have so many shortcomings that would have triggered so many legal system concerns, but if we reconsidered yesterday's proposal for a pension law. Therefore, for these reasons and for many other reservations and concerns in the Slovenian National Party to this proposal of the RTV Slovenia Act, we will not support and we will vote against it in the parliamentary group. Since I still have some time left, I would like to take advantage of this, that the wider Slovenian public is also familiar with the letter and with some sober, well-founded opinions, the views of the Association of Cultural and Artistic Creators of RTV Slovenia, which find that through the law a step towards marginalising cultural and artistic content on radio and television and indirectly demolishing one of the pillars of nationality. I couldn't agree more. And also that the change in the status of RTV Slovenia is supported only by the external representative of professional journalists. This is unacceptable for the creators of cultural and artistic content. It is as if the law on RTV Slovenia was written only to establish the threshold, which is presented in the explanatory memorandum by claiming that the law will allow for greater autonomy of the journalistic profession. Finally, the final thought of the Association of Cultural and Artistic Creators of RTV Slovenia, "non-systematicity, legal irreconcilability and distance from the true purpose of national broadcasting are the ideal basis for the financial and substantive degradation of the public institution RTV Slovenia". I'm putting my heart at your fingertips so you can think about it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! According to the Liberal Democracy Club, the specifics of public media are, in this case, RTV Slovenia, which differs from the national and private media defined in relation to civil society. The latter should also have an impact on the functioning of RTV Slovenia. Thus, a new law through the appointment procedure of members of the Council and its 17-member membership makes this possible. This solution represents a significant difference from now on in the current law. It is a composition that represents the diversity of groups that make up civil society. Otherwise, the main problem of media regulation is that it interferes with the many interests of social workers. Finding a balance between the often exclusionary interests of various actors, such as owners, whose media serve as a means of maximising profits, government institutions and civil society groups, is a fundamental problem of such regulation, which therefore inevitably triggers conflicts. In the LDS, we support the bill. Let me just give you a few arguments for this support. We support it mainly because of the greater autonomy of RTV Slovenia in relation to political and capital power. Public RTV Slovenia must serve public and national interests, not sectoral, political and economic interests. The current law has given rise to very contradictory effects. It enabled the politicisation of RTV Slovenia. Civil society has become a disruptive and unnecessary element for the previous ruling suit. She only announced it as a cover for political parties. Otherwise, it is difficult to choose the best of many evidences of how politics interfered with the work of the public service of RTV Slovenia either indirectly or directly. Next. We support the new law in the LDS Club because it introduces transparency between public and private because it imposes mechanisms to improve the efficiency of operations, which will also allow for greater quality of programmes, more efficient introduction of new technologies and services. In this regard, in LDS, we regret that attention has no longer been given to the complex issues of television media as a result of the rapid development of digital technology applications. With regard to the unique regulation of the status of the current public institution of RTV Slovenia and the exclusion of employees on RTV from the system of public servants, it should be said that the law regulates special arrangements for situations which may not be regulated by law, and the law provides that the legislation which has been applied so far is the same as in other public institutions. According to the proposaler, with whom we can also agree in the LDS, this is a more flexible arrangement than the current establishment regime, and this is so that they can be carried out with greater responsiveness and greater responsibility of all members of RTV Slovenia. The proposed change in the status of employees should be reiterated that their employment contracts remain in force, the same remain jobs, they are still subject to the provisions of the current collective agreements and the law on the public sector wage system, until they are negotiated with the management for a different regime, which is not possible without their consent. This is what we want to stress in particular. The payment system of employees on RTV is determined by a collective contract of RTV Slovenia concluded by the management following prior agreement of the Supervisory Board and representative unions in RTV Slovenia. The position of employees in this respect is protected both in transition, because, given the dictates of the law in our opinion, there can be no talk of interference with any rights, as in the light of the provisions of Article 57, even in the future. At the LDS Club we support the increase in autonomy, which is the autonomy of journalists, professional, financial and rational RTV, which as a public service in the public interest must realize the interests of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. In this respect, this law is certainly considerable progress. At the LDS Club, we are convinced that the media, which turn into a power centre or monopolized by power centres, are no longer media, but are tools to promote the interests of narrow groups and pressures and to enforce certain powers. Such media are not and cannot be a public service. Such media are a restriction on democracy, the key to which is the participation of citizens in decision-making. Therefore, RTV Slovenia must act in the public interest as a whole and for the public as a whole. Otherwise, it would have been better if she hadn't been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Communities will be presented by Dr. Lazslo Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Introductoryly, despite the concerns about the proposed solution to the new status of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, the interpretation of the current stage of the adoption of the law has not fully convinced us that the proposed law will be supported on my part. Some of the doubts that we have raised with regard to certain solutions and additions to the law in previous discussions will not be discussed today in the context of the third reading of the law. The main reason for supporting the law is positive substantive solutions, but the fact that we are satisfied with the provisions of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia relating to the RTV programmes of these communities has prevailed within the framework of the national community and our parliamentary group. As we have pointed out several times in recent weeks, there have been long and difficult but successful and correct harmonisations in this area, resulting in a significantly better legal text in this specific area, as originally proposed. I believe that this is for the benefit of both national communities or national RTV broadcasters as well as the bill-maker and the legislator. Let me recall that the proposed text of the Third Reading Act adequately addresses the representation of the national communities in the RTV Council, further the question of the competence of the national community programming commissions for their RTV programmes and some other important issues in terms of the organisation and management of the nationalities of the RTV centres. Formally, it can also be seen as a success that, in the area of financing national programmes, we have managed to maintain the current form of funding compared to a much worse original version. Unfortunately, already the problems in the 2011 and 2012 budgets confirm our previous warnings that this form, as well as the proposed form of funding, is quite loose and does not provide the necessary stability in the area of optimal implementation of the programmes. Indeterminate provisions concerning the specific ratio of financial shares in RTV contributions and the State budget have a significant impact on the continued sub-nutrition of RTV programmes of Italian and Hungarian nationalities. We are also facing the problem now, as I have already mentioned, of the proposed budgets, and we can only hope that, with the good will of the ruling coalition and other Members, we will succeed to some extent. The regulation of the financing of national RTV programmes remains, therefore, at the current level or in the current form, which is acceptable in terms of the adoption of the new RTV law in the circumstances in question, but this provision of the optimum solution does not in any way bring about an optimal solution. Finally, allow me to wish to all of us, especially RTV, that the new law will enhance the content and quality of all programmes implemented by Radiotelevision of Slovenia, which is clearly the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and other interested viewers and listeners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that every intervention in media law is very sensitive, has the special attention of the interested public, which is necessarily polarising and where only the difficulties are achieved by universal consensus. However, we are convinced that the changes that would be their own purpose do not make any sense and will not be supported in the public if we do not know how to answer the fundamental question, namely whether the new law provides quality public service, which will result in a return of confidence in public television and will stop in particular the decline in television ratings and ensure high compliance with radio programmes. When we tried to answer this fundamental dilemma in the Social Democrats' Group before the third reading of the law, we found that we could support the law. The exceptions will reveal themselves. The new law closes the legislative process in the middle of the mandate, although it has been possible to hear demands for rapid action among people. However, we gave up rapid human resources changes and went to the preparation of the law that laid the groundwork for him. The 20-member working group of media professionals thus told its own and left the policy with responsibility for the third-reading proposal. We are convinced that in preparation and during the adoption of the Centre, the question has been raised as to whether the proposed solutions are following the fundamental objective, namely the provision of a quality public service, since it must have an absolute advantage over the demands and expectations of individual stakeholders. For the Group of Social Democrats, therefore, the key question is whether their views were also open to the public concerned. Let's see how the trial went. First, I will stop in the opinion of the interested public, which had the opportunity to speak on the draft law on RTV Slovenia at a public hearing in mid-March this year. It should be noted, however, that the text has changed since then until the hearing in the National Assembly. In particular, the provisions on the legal status of RTV Slovenia and the provisions on the remuneration of employees, administration and the Supervisory Board have become clearer. We have heard different opinions in the debate, namely that a system of companies is being introduced, that the allocation of time during the electoral campaign is unfair, that in the world of representatives of both indigenous nationalities, the payment system should first be adopted, that a new law on the media should be introduced, that the consent of employees should be introduced in the appointment of responsible editors, that, by the inclusion of employees in the public servants system, the payment system should become more orderly and transparent, that the director of radio and television for the Italian and Hungarian national communities should be provided for, that the role of regional centres should be clearly defined in the law, so that employees should remain public servants in order to be dissatisfied with the smaller number of members of the world. A thorough review of the comments shows how many of them are accepted in the final text. Since it is possible to hear evidence of non-compliance with the social partners in most laws, it is possible to mention that the report of the Ministry of Culture on the coordination of the proposal has taken into account the 11 proposals of the Council of Workers of RTV Slovenia and the 9 representative unions of RTV Slovenia. I would point out, however, that the figures do not tell us everything because there are various large-scale changes with different important consequences and effects. The Group of Social Democrats was surprised that there is no uniform opinion among employees on what their status should be. Consider, for example, the opposition faced by the inclusion of journalists among public officials. There are many complications, even irregularities regarding salary reform at the end of the previous term, which the current government had to resolve. In particular, experts pointed out at their presentation that they were not employed in public service by public servants in any country. Some were disappointed at the partiality of the expressed interests and heard the call on the policy to end this institution as a political polygon by adopting the law. The fact is, no law in itself brings autonomy, but it is necessary to know how to fight and negotiate. Of course, it is essential for the Group of Social Democrats to strengthen the role of employees in the most important body of RTV Slovenia, in a world where employees will also have 3 representatives in a much smaller world. The ratio from 29 to 17. What else was going on with the law in the treatment of the parent body and at the second plenary hearing? First time. It is explicitly written that the only founder and owner of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia. This was the Parliamentary amendment adopted by the Committee. Clearly, the misunderstanding of the change in the status of RTV Slovenia, which remains public, stems from my initial draft new law, which provided for the entry of a new organisation into the register of companies and would be subject to the rules of companies. The bill did not follow. Following a broad public debate, it was decided that RTV Slovenia would become a legal person of public law of special cultural and national importance, for which, unless certain matters are otherwise regulated in the law, laws governing public finances, the accounting of legal persons of public law, public procurement and institutions apply. In addition, until the tax regime in the law governing the taxation of legal persons, RTV Slovenia shall be considered as a taxable person who carries out a non-profit activity. The main criticism of the law is that the legal status is intended to allow the commercialisation of the public service and to redirect its operation to a largely profitable activity. However, in addition to the already mentioned safeguards against commercialisation, Article 6(3) provided that the Administration should prepare a report each year on the provision of a majority share of cultural, artistic, informational, documentary and educational content. If a majority of these content is not provided, the Council shall initiate a procedure for the dismissal of members of the Board. Another time. In particular, members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia are mentioned as communities for which RTV Slovenia must prepare programme content. This highlights the importance of the national communities of the former Yugoslavia, which have actually played a constitutional role in all the republics of the former country and are equally integrated into Slovenian society. Conditions allowing the preservation of their identity are provided, which is also one of the important tasks of plural public television. In addition, we follow the opinion of the Ombudsman and many NGOs, which point out that in Slovenia there are also other national communities whose monthly contributions finance the functioning of the public Radio Television, so they are referring to the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia to provide programming content on their communities in the public media. The Ombudsman also recommended, in his 2008 report, the definition of initiatives for the adoption of additional measures to promote, develop and preserve identity for those minorities not specifically defined in the Constitution. The Ombudsman’s presence in public media is one of the key policies. In its 2009 report, the Ombudsman notes that there has been no progress in these areas. A similar recommendation is made by the Council of Europe in the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in relation to those national communities of Slovenia. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, following a recommendation from the Advisory Committee of the Slovenian authorities, calls for ways to increase state aid in their efforts to develop identity through education, culture and the media. Last but not least, the debate on the Committee has shown how low the awareness of the importance of these nations in our space is, therefore, their reference in the normative acts of this country is essential. It is interesting that opponents of this provision spoke of the fact that these nations are already mentioned among, I say, 'other national and ethnic communities in the Republic of Slovenia', the end of the line, but added in the same breath how this provision will have financial consistency. So according to this logic, it's already a cost today. And I just want to remind you of the difficulty that the rights of sensory disabled persons in the media have also been exercised, as well as the warnings of the Ombudsman and civil society. Third time. The Italian and Hungarian national communities also listened to the legislative process. That way you will have each of your own representatives in a world that you will name directly. Before that, only one representative was envisaged to be appointed directly by the President of the Republic. At the proposal of the national communities, an amendment was also adopted which provides that the National Community Programme Committees shall give their consent to the appointment of national programme managers and to the decisions of the administration concerning national programmes. Fourth time. It has become clear that public RTV ensures autonomy, pluralism, freedom of opinion, this was the proposal of the SDS Group of Members – so much so that no opposition proposal was adopted – even though this is already clearly mentioned in Article 6. Let me point out that there are various items in Article 6 of Article 28 that RTV Slovenia must implement under public service obligations regarding content, programmes and services. And all of this is implicitly included in this article. However, we have heard that this should be included, so that there is no doubt that this is clearly the purpose of the lawmakers. Fifth. The third parliamentary programme shall be maintained within the framework of the public service. With regard to the parliamentary programme, we had different views in the Group of Social Democrats. On the one hand, the current regime should allow for greater opportunities to present views and address those which are more difficult or difficult to reach in the other’s daily information programme. On the other hand, the programme is intended to grow beyond the purpose of setting up meetings of the National Assembly, the Council of State and the European Parliament. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the placement, as stipulated by the law, will allow for a better quality design of the existing programme. Six. At the meeting of the parent working body, it was agreed, at the proposal of the disabled, that the members of the Programme Committee for Persons with Disabilities should be proposed by the National Council of Disabled Organisations and not by representative associations of persons with disabilities. The important ones have also been added to the seventh and eighth, namely that the provision of quality music content and music production become part of the public service and that one of the competences of the administration is also to provide professional education for RTV employees. This was a proposal from RTV employees. Why did I mention these eight points that we consider the Social Democrats to be significant improvements to the initial bill? In order to demonstrate, on specific occasions, how the law has undergone significant changes in the legislative process, I did not mention all those additions that followed the comments of the Legal Service, and thus before us in the third reading of the draft law on RTV Slovenia, which we support in the Group of Social Democrats with the exceptions mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alexander Zorn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u14	Nicely greeted. Your Honor! We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. For this, there are many reasons that we have already discussed, after all, this is the third time before this convention. And I'll repeat some of them, but most of them don't have to. Let me just say that marriage has its history. This history begins in the previous mandate of the previous government when a new law on RTV was passed, which was met with violent reactions by the then opposition, which proved to be actually inappropriate. There was no human resources terrible change, no tsunami. It wasn't like that. The only clue left of all of this is that the world is numbered. Everything else has proved to be working well in these four years. It is said that the amendment of the previous law was formerly of a prestigious nature, which was committed to by the coalition. However, there is something else we need to talk about behind this replacement. But one more thing. Despite the terrible reactions to the previous marriage, the law received a referendum certificate. This is very important. I find this difficult to compare with this law, which, as it were, did not get a sufficiently strong certificate, except in the coalition. A huge part of the employees do not accept it, a huge part of the public dealing with legislation, or experts, if you want, do not accept it, some unions do not accept it, I have already mentioned the employees and so on. It was also addressed by the Legislative and Legal Service. And they're still holding those remarks. In the first version of the law, which was withdrawn by the Ministry because it was wise to recognise that it would not abstain from constitutional judgment, a company suddenly appeared, called a company of shares, and is now hiding behind another name. However, this company is such an economic company as to be unable to collect a subscription. When this proved to be true, the marriage was withdrawn and we now have a different appointment. Instead of a public institution of special cultural and national importance, we have gained a separate legal personality of special importance. But despite the fact that the changed name, which is slightly less radical than any equity company, remained the basic characteristics of an economic society, whether we want it or not. And that's what law enforcement warned me about. Therefore, the fundamental question remains whether any independent legal person can be such as to be able to collect a subscription from anyone with electricity. The moment someone starts a dispute before the Constitutional Court, if they don't want to pay for it, they'll find out what it really means. What does such a society really mean? One more thing. If it is a company that has many characteristics of companies, then this matter, called the sui generis, is, however, such that a substantial part of the legislation will have to be amended so that it can collect the subscription or there are problems elsewhere. But if it is already registered, will it really be able to carry out its activity? In what way? As a public institution or as an economic company? And employees. Economic workers have different sectoral contracts, different trade unions and a different attitude to work and are otherwise employable and resilient. Public servants have a completely different destiny in this regard, and so on, at least in the current legislation, they are eternal. Therefore, which part will be economic and which will be public, which will be protected, such as public servants, who will be so badly protected as employees in the economy, is a huge issue. And there will be chaos within the company, because it has to be said that contracts with each employee will have to be specifically signed for a new one. There will also be new work, because it always happens in contracts, job description will be different, wages will be different, protection will be different and there will be considerable chaos, not to say anything else. In particular, because it will soon turn out that this mix of economies and public can be such that many employees prefer to decide for one or those unions, for that or for another option that is more likely to protect them. That's the problem I'm predicting. And she's not the only one. The second is commercialisation, which we have already discussed in a two-fold debate. The company has to take care of itself, it has to take care of what it's made of, it's profit. The economic society must survive, this is its task, otherwise it is totally pointless for us to establish it. If he thinks an economic society can live off a subscription, then we don't need one. And when we say profit, then we say a lot of things, then we have to have a program that brings profits that brings ads. Then there's a lot of other things that make a profit. It is necessary to be completely different from the public institution now. And then we wonder if it's a profitable society, if we're not involved. If I'm paying a subscription to a company that generates profits, why shouldn't I be its shareholder? Why don't I have some of this because I'm investing in it? It's gonna open up, too, and there's a lot more. Perhaps another word or two about the special mention of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia who are supposed to have come in now, even though they already had the city and it turns out that everything is all right, but it is not formalized to the extent they deserve. There are some problems here. We have an indigenous minority, which is also enshrined in the constitution, which is Italian and Hungarian, and these are nationalities that are not currently indigenous to the minority and are not in the constitution. This is where I predict certain complications. As far as finance is concerned, if nothing will cost any more, because this is already the case, I must say that the moment this is formalized and recorded, the editorial work will also have to be done, at least five, with its special staff. That's what it's saying. It's spreading. And once it expands, it spreads forward, and once it is written down and has its editorial structure, is it not just a step further to having them written down in the constitution? And when they have to be enshrined in the Constitution, honourable Members, they will have to be placed in Parliament, five new and two minorities who are now, that is 7 new Members of Parliament or a strong party. We will get Yugoslavia in Parliament with all the arguments. So much, by the way. Well, let's just go our separate ways. I think it will still be necessary to make a constitutional assessment at least to find out what kind of society this sui generis is, what kind of hybrid it is, is a good purpose, but there is no basis in our legislation once again. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues from the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues! I believe that today we will confirm the new Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, which we have waited a long time for, I would say even a proposal. Finally, we will finally be able to change the quality of broadcasting management in a way that will prevent the continued interference of the political will of the day and the on-call governments with the self-management of this important public institution. We know why it took more than a year to prepare the marriage. Since it was not written by only one person of its own taste, the Ministry of Culture has included in its preparation a number of experts from the media legal field and a broad civil and interested society. In democracy things go slower, of course, but the results are much better in the end. The comments, concerns and questions raised in the public hearing of the draft law were taken into account by the applicants. They redefined the status regime, increased the composition of the Council from 9 to 15 in coordination with Radiotelevision unions, and placed these solutions in the draft law before the hearing in the National Assembly. Also, the Government, the Ministry of Culture, has taken into account the expectations of indigenous nationalities, which are now in full composition in a much smaller programming world. This is an important achievement, not only to preserve previous rights, which was self-evident, but also to ensure greater specific weight for representatives of indigenous national communities. During the debate in the first reading of the draft law, we have really raised open questions and expressed expectations that together we will find solutions, as regards the number of representatives of national communities in the RTV world and the proper regulation and placement of the third parliamentary programme within the National Assembly. We have also found suitable solutions to these questions. On the proposal of certain Members and Members of Parliament, the text of Article 2 has been corrected accordingly. Thus it is stressed that not only is he the only founder, but also the only owner of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia. By adopting the law, we have enabled greater responsibility, autonomy, commitment to the public, more transparent business and the possibility of creating quality diverse programmes that will not be limited to the taste of capital or the market. This also confirms the commitments made under the Coalition Treaty. One major and also key change is the transformation of the status from a public institution to a separate person of public law of particular cultural and national importance, which is also followed by a coalition commitment that RTV must take on a more flexible organisational structure. The change in status is important due to the inevitable fact that RTV is active on the market, is entangled in the real situation and must also comply with the rules of the environment in which it operates. RTV performs the same activity as other televisions for profit only. However, the objective of public broadcasting is significantly different. This will also enable the conditions for greater independence of the public media, as the RTV Council, on behalf of the State, fully implements the rights of establishment, will manage public broadcasting independently with its own assets. Thus, the governing bodies, the Council, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, which are also less numerous, are subject to greater responsibilities, as is the responsibility of the members of the management and control bodies of the participating companies. The composition of organs has also been changed. In the main body, the Council of RTV, representative civil society organisations that have been excluded from that body have once again played a major role. The working assembly will appoint only one third or five members of the Council through a public invitation to tender to NGOs. Now the National Assembly calls them 16 out of 29. Unless we count those five that he appoints on a proposal from political parties. In the supervisory council, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia retains only one representative and one of the three representatives of the National Assembly is appointed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances of the National Assembly. And this, of course, will be a representative of the opposition. According to the basic objective of the law, this is to enable the maximum independence of RTV Slovenia in relation to power, the staff of RTV will no longer be public servants. Instead of leaving any possibility for the executive and legislative branches of the authorities to have any possibility of interfering with the wage position of employees on RTV Slovenia, their situation will be regulated independently in the social dialogue of the administration of RTV Slovenia with representative unions and without their consent no change will be possible. Until then, and this seems very important to us when a new contract is adopted, they remain on the proposal of representative unions in force the provisions of the existing collective agreement RTV Slovenia and the provisions of the other documents. Special attention is also paid to ensuring that technology is urgently updated, that new audiovisual and information services are provided so that RTV can successfully monitor the development and diversity of digital activities. At the time of the adoption of the applicable law, we argued in the opposition that the amount of RTV contribution should not depend on the political motivation of the authorities. Remember, in 2008, the current coalition, due to the upcoming elections, did not want to raise the RTV contribution, with all the consequences that followed. The financial hole that RTV Slovenia was talking about, they expected a rapid change, they were the first victim, and workers of RTV Slovenia, these political decisions. That financial hole on TV was only patched up by the current minister or current government with an increase in the RTV contribution. Let's not forget that. Therefore, with a view to avoiding the Government's intervention on a case-by-case basis, the amount of the contribution shall be re-coordinated to the increase in the cost of living. RTV contribution, state budget funds and other public funds and revenue from the provision of public service may only be used for the provision of public service. RTV Slovenia is obliged to allocate surpluses from the performance of all activities of RTV Slovenia, as well as commercial activities and associated persons in the share belonging to RTV Slovenia, for the purpose of carrying out the activity carried out by RTV Slovenia as a public service. In order to make market operations more transparent, the proposal for a law fully aligns itself with the law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities. Even because of this fuse, there won't be any known anomalies. We do not claim that on Radiotelevision everything will suddenly work without mistakes, flawless. This depends primarily on people. But to the new authorities and all employees on RTV Slovenia we offer and deliver tools that will enable them to work better and more effectively. We have a well - prepared law that offers quality and appropriate solutions during the time we live in. We will, of course, support the law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As we have listened to the debate in Parliament since summer on the adoption of the RTV Act, we feel that every change in the government's law on RTV Slovenia should also be amended. And it's more than obvious just so that people can be replaced in leadership and also journalists who don't fit the current political structure. Of course everything under the cover of increasing the independence of the public service RTV. If that were true and independence would increase with any change, this institution would now be so independent that so powerfully independent people as this institution would need could not be found at all. And joke and cynicism aside. The law introduces extremely important status changes to RTV. We introduce a completely new and special legal form of public law of particular cultural and national importance. We do not yet know this form in Slovenia, so from a legal point of view we can expect a whole range of complications around the business itself. It's some kind of experiment, which, in our opinion, is irresponsible. This is public national television, and we are acting as if we were dealing with just another company from the next street. In fact, this is an extremely important sample case, which, if implemented, would also be the case for the status of other public institutions in the field of education, science, education and culture. Instead of a roof office in public institutions, through a side door called modernisation, it is now a second time trying to introduce commercialisation and, consequently, their privatisation. The blood law is supposed to come later, but it represents the legalisation of so-called good practices that would have been introduced by then. Last but not least, most journalists are opposed to such an experiment, which advocates that RTV Slovenia continue to maintain its status as a public institution and that employees maintain its status as public servants. This also shows the results of a survey carried out between the journalists of the Institute between June 8th and 10th by the coordination of press unions. This brings together 8 representative unions. The survey showed that the transformation of RTV Slovenia into a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance, as set out in the proposal, supports 22.9% and opposes 77.71% of the journalists questioned. The proposal that employees in the office would no longer be public servants was supported by 33.12% of respondents and 66.88% against them. The derogation from the public service status in the new so-called special provision of sui generis raises questions about the status of employees. According to the proposal of the law, public servants will no longer be defined, such a definition departs from the definition of the Public Servants Act, which defines a public servant as an individual who is in a public sector employment relationship. In addition to the public sector, other public bodies and administrations are also part of the public sector in self-government local communities, public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions if they are indirect users of the state budget. It's RTV, of course. Who and who is not an employee cannot be the subject of the salvation of a branch law. In several articles, the law refers to the exercise of public service. Who should do the public service if not the civil servants? If they're not public, they have to do something else. However, if they do the public service as stated in the law, they are public servants. The Ombudsman was also contacted by the Association of Cultural and Artistic Creators, who claim that the exemption of employees from the public servants system would mean a return to an old state and, sooner or later, a burial of content that, as the billmaker notes, is not market-oriented. These are numerous artistic types, a wide range of educational content, children's and youth shows, documentary types, palette of cultural and informational types, perhaps just entertainment and sports shows. That's what they say in the union. That's not what we invented. I guess we can't say that they don't know the situation in the public office. In the end, let me just say this. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would only support such a proposal of the RTV Act, which would ensure respect for human personality and dignity, the principles of impartiality, independence and the reality of information on opinion, worldview and religious pluralism and political independence and autonomy in the creation and preparation of programmes. Unfortunately, this law is not the same in our view, so we will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u20	Although I came forward a little later, there's probably been a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u21	You came forward later. There's been a change. Your Group of Members has proposed an amendment. Please, Mr. Yuri, if you'd like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u22	All right, because I would lose this opportunity, I will take advantage of it, although you know that in the debate the Member prefers to act a little later, because this answers some of the claims. I'm probably tired of my fellow Members because I've spoken for a long time on behalf of the Group of Members, but I'm going to add something else. There has been a lot of talk and the most controversy has recently flared up in connection with Article 6 of this Law, mentioning some national communities that need to be taken into account in the formulation of RTV content. There were some such hints today, too. I believe, as did media expert Sandra Bashič Hrvatin, that one of the greatest civilisational achievements in this law is to open up the possibility of taking into account the expectations of our citizens' work where the taboos have been applied so far, not to talk about it. This in no way creates the rights and constitutional role played by representatives of indigenous national communities certified in the programming world in a better way. Now the programming board is smaller and the specific weight of each member of this world is significantly higher. I think we have reached some solutions with this law, which are also exemplary in Europe's visas and in relation to the civilisation expectations of our society. The issue is also about the status itself, about the sui generis status of this public institution. I think it is clear, and we have said several times in previous discussions that RTV, as an exclusive public institution, has carried out commercial activities. So she was doing them, even if she wasn't supposed to do them. And if you hadn't done them, what would have happened? In order for citizens and citizens to pay a significantly higher subscription fee. I still have a U.N. membership card in my head. Excuse me. This issue is also raised in a solution offered by the law or the Government, the sui generis hybrid between public and economic society, which in no way affects the property rights of the State. This should be clear that the only owner and only founder of this institution is the State of the Republic of Slovenia. There's no doubt here. And the suggestion of privatising this public institution is entirely unfounded. There is no way to privatize. This is a public institution that will also operate legally, in a clear way also part of its economic or commercial activities. And with these commercial activities, we will finance those activities which are in the public interest and for which it will not be necessary to pay additional fees to citizens. The bound package sui generis system, which is supposed to work more effectively, is supposed to legalise what this has done and so this public institution has done, but in a clear and transparent way. That's why I don't see any special problems. And I'm going to end up here because we still have 10 minutes, and I'm going to leave them to my colleague Vito Rojo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, co-worker! I will support myself as in the first and second marriages. I have a lot of reasons for that, and one of them is that marriage brings a lot of autonomy to work. And the other thing. The change in status brings very great responsibility to those who accept this responsibility and will be entrusted with the role of managing a house of public interest. How wrong intervention has been, the opinion of those who have spoken and who are still saying that programmes will be reduced in the public interest and even those parts of the programme that are not so interesting when we talk about the youth programme, the education programme, the sports programme and so on, because this law very clearly defines the public service and everything that is not finally part of it and what the mission of the public service of Radiotelevision is. I will support the law because it brings autonomy to work and, above all, because we have listened to the motioner and we Members, who now accept with all responsibility the law, the motioners or the professional public. This professional public sat here and told us with arguments and explained what was so important. And with all these comments, the law is complemented. The colleague of Potrat initially made very clear, clear, concrete details of what was involved in the initial proposal of the law and what was also taken into account. And these are concrete facts and also data. But I will absolutely lean on my own expertise and on those specific people who know the media very well and know what the mission is and what the media of public television is. Unfortunately, unions, such and different ones, change their minds. I had a big story with them myself from 2001 to 2004. Their opinion was different back then. And here, unfortunately, I have a problem with myself that these employees and trade unions think primarily of themselves and their status, not that they are employees who are to carry out the public service as set out in this law. And if I can say and summarize the words that have been said here, that in no country are they employed in public service by public servants, I am joining this because I am also very well acquainted with the public service of television across Europe. And it has also been said that the disappointment over the partiality of expressed interests has been called upon not least to adopt this law, which was before us, to make an end to the institution, such as the political polygon that we have here and we are repeatedly politicising what would be good and what would not be good. Marriage is good, but marriage is too little. It must be realized — those who will exercise it, those who will take responsibility for running it, and those who will keep on the watch over all the right things. And then probably Slovenian viewers will wonder whether the information or information program is so valuable that the viewing of Slovenian television programmes will increase. That's my third argument, but I'm worried. The viewership of our national television or programs is falling. This means that confidence in the information that we have on national television is questionable. As a result, I believe that with the new governance structure that we have warned about in law, the proposal is such that those who have the responsibility to manage and trust can turn the trend of trust and national television up. Finally, this is not the goal of having national television, which we like to watch, which we have to obtain with it in the fields of education, culture, information, not least of all programmes concerning our other groups. I think that the law is precisely because it makes all this possible, worthy of support and also of realisation in the near future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this bill because I believe that, given the effectiveness and acceptability of the RTV law we adopted in 2005, it is more than obvious that this was not a good solution at the time. Under the cloak of public interest, there have been numerous manipulations and irregularities, from the appointment of the Programme Council with so-called crop leaves to scandalous contracts for the removal of leading RTV workers Slovenia. It is not only that this exposed scandal — how many others are hidden and hidden we will never know — has seen all the consequences of choosing those who should control this public service. More. This was a violation of the law, since such contracts are in direct contradiction with the Public Servants Act, which also provides for salaries for leading RTV workers. However, since they did so with the help and knowledge of those to be controlled, this was happening in this public service. Therefore, in my view, it was high time to reach out to these anomalies with the amendment of the RTV law. In particular, this new status form of RTV, which converts RTV Slovenia from a public institution into a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance. This is an important step forward from the acute institutional arrangements I have been talking about, to a new and more effective one, and in particular to the management with increased responsibility of all members, all authorities and, above all, members of the RTV administration. The law therefore also lays down sanctions in the event of failure to comply with the public service and the achievement of the required achievements of the programme content. And that is an answer to all those who warn and frighten before the commercialization and privatisation of the RTV house. I also believe that the way in which the 17-member Programme Council and the 7-member Supervisory Council are appointed is a step forward towards depoliticisation and in essence the realization of this great desire of the former Culture Minister, who in 2005 wanted this institution to experience this depoliticisation. From the former Grand Programme Council, in which the National Assembly appointed 72% of its members, the National Assembly now appoints only 5% and 29%. And more importantly, in the supervisory council, where in the previous or current law the government had a majority, the right executive power is the majority, now the executive power has only one member. Once again, the wishes of the former minister after the depoliticisation of this house are being realized. I believe that these solutions create the conditions to end the fact that RTV Slovenia, as has already been said for this speaker today, is part of the politicisation or political polygon of every executive branch. And as she said in her presentation of the position of the Group of Ambassadors, colleague Majda, the law itself does not bring autonomy. This autonomy requires constant struggle and negotiation. And this law simply makes it possible. Finally, since I have also heard many of the truths, lies and inventions in these two parliamentary proceedings, I will answer one that he has said or asked the question of the Member's great political sciences expert, my fellow MP Branko Grims in this regard. Branko Grims convinced the other members of the working body on the working body that this proposal for the law on RTV was one of the most expensive laws in the history of the country. That is why he also addressed a question to the Government and received an answer to that question. This reply, which is no longer publicly mentioned, stated that the cost of the author's fees for the RTV law and for the media law totalled EUR 26 000 and several euros and that another EUR 22 000 and several euros were paid for legal advice. To compare, let's see what were the most expensive things, four or five years ago, and I'll just give you a few. For example, 49 000 euros and a few euros cost the preparation of the Ports Act, 49 000 euros and a few euros was the Road Transport Act, 48 000 euros was the Law on Public Roads, 47 000 euros was the law governing insolvency substantive procedural law. And now comes those interesting financial expenditure: 27 000 and several euros has cost a study by the former Ministry of Culture to prepare the professional basis for the creation of a regulation on the single methodology for the production of public procurement programmes in the field of culture. Next: 30 000 euros was paid by the same ministry for the preparation of the environment for the project Preparation of the draft law on protection of cultural heritage and 38 000 euros was paid only for the evaluation of the annual media tender and so on and so on. I would like to say to my colleague Grimes, who is not here today, that there was much, much higher expenditure on the part of this cultural ministry, where laws were not prepared, but only some grounds or expert assessments. So much for a major expert in political science.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! For Radiotelevision, Slovenia should probably also come from an existing situation and know that in this case it is a public service that is taking place in a highly marketed area and is therefore specific. If I were to illustrate because in Slovenia it is a small cultural space and also a small market, Radiotelevision Slovenia is in this space in some way a dolphin among sharks. He has a similar function, but we may like him a little better than any other, but he probably knows more than anyone else, at least by law he needs to know. And it is also logical that we must define its status differently than that of some other public institutions, because the form of a public swimming agency with sharks is not appropriate if I now combine these two comparisons. At the time of previous reading of this law, I have made it clear that we have several such legal persons soi generis, including those who have their own law, such as the Mutual, Student Organization of Slovenia, or any sub-laws, and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations, the Sport Foundation. My colleague Zorn must have understood me perfectly that I am speaking to educational societies and later also a newspaper, which I cannot say is a medium, because it does not exactly follow the rules of journalism to investigate the facts, democracy has misinterpreted, freely after colleague Zorn. Therefore, it is of course important as regards the exercise of a public function, RTV will continue to be similar to institutions, but because of this, I will say, and external defences in this harsh market space will also have to take on some forms of companies. It would be too easy to claim, as my colleague Kres said, who else would be doing public service if not public servants. Public service in the case of an economic public service can also be carried out by public undertakings whose employees are not public servants. More. This can also be done by concessionaires and, of course, their employees are not public servants at all. It is not necessary for public service to be performed solely and solely by public servants. The concession can also do so and in some ways RTV Slovenia could now see this arrangement as a concession to this legal person. I do not see any real danger that such a concept could extend to public institutions in education and culture. I say this with certainty and my own experience. The media world, the radio, especially television, is so strong or more powerful than other media in the field of culture, theater, for example, that it is not comparable. Even so, a top-notch artist can prove himself on stage boards for years, and his popularity will be much lower than it will be on stage boards for 30 years than it will be on one television show or, more importantly, on a television commercial. The power of television as a medium is priceless compared to the theater, and I hope you believe it. The difference, which also exists among other institutions in the field of education and culture in the field of media, is a commercial interest. It is hard to imagine that competition in the field of theatre, although we also have commercial theatres there, is far from as far as advertising is concerned, this medium, if we can say so, is not nearly as interesting as television. For this reason it is necessary to understand why RTV Slovenia needs the status form of sui generis in order to be able to keep pace with time at all. This is what the public office has been doing once again, although, as we have heard, even in a way that it should not have done. I know that because of the content on RTV Slovenia, let's say sports and entertainment, easier and better marketed. And it also affected the internal relationship in the institution. I was myself, and I am, as long as the time and decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission allows me, I am still a co-worker of the children's programme of Radio Television of Slovenia and in practice tell you that if we were agreed on Thursday that we would be filming the children's programme on Monday morning, it could happen on Friday that the deadline had changed and that Monday morning, for example, we got a cheer-up or sports programme, and the children's programme had a spare term available which was "very favourable" on Friday evening from six to midnight. Because of this situation, I understand the concerned letters from the Association of Cultural Creators on RTV Slovenia. However, I am convinced that the current legal provisions also arbitrarily prevent them. The conditions under which they are now employed in RTV Slovenia will not deteriorate under the provisions of this Act unless there is agreement of the representative unions. From this point of view, the past classification of RTV staff among public servants has been good, since some internal relations that have been misrepresented for decades have now been properly established. That's how it's gonna stay. What seems to me to be the advantage of this law and to be pointed out by the speakers before me is the marriage commitment that these contents will be: artistic, educational, cultural, much better protected within the programme itself and that the case that I referred to earlier in my own experience will no longer happen or will happen as few times as possible. If RTV Slovenia does not comply with quotas in the field of cultural, educational and similar content, sanctions, such as those on companies, will be severe for supervisors and managers. I am convinced that this law equips RTV Slovenia for the future to be good and better, and that in this area, which is not friendly and even more acute in the economic crisis, all the challenges the RTV faces will therefore be better. I'll be happy to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. In three minutes, as many as I have left, there's really not much to say. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the things that are important in this law and which make me feel that the National Assembly of this Law should not adopt. I would like to draw attention to the study commissioned by the Ministry of Public Administration, which does not support the legislative proposals. Also, the provision of the law that RTV Slovenia is the sole owner of this institution is thanks to me and the two Members we have insisted on this amendment which we tabled. At the same time, the law allows for privatisation, because RTV Slovenia is supposed to become a financial autonomous organisation, which also has the possibility of taking over RTV Slovenia's assets. At the same time, I would point out that everywhere in the countries concerned in that study the activity of a commercial nature, when carried out, is carried out in separate organisations from legal entities carrying out a public service. The draft law on RTV Slovenia does not provide for the exclusion of commercial activities from RTV Slovenia into another organisation. On the contrary, the law allows and encourages commercial activities to be carried out to the detriment of the public service. The profit of RTV Slovenia from commercial activity would not only be intended to perform public service, as is the case elsewhere in the world in regulated countries, but profit from commercial activities could be shared by administration, supervisory and professional councils and employees. RTV Slovenia would also legally become a profitable organisation by this law. Nor did the bill proposer agree on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which discusses the inadequacy of the proposed status regime of the public institution RTV Slovenia. For this reason, the proposal is contrary to the public interest because it allows for commercial activity to be carried out in the detriment of the public service, because it is inconsistent with the purpose of establishing the public institution of RTV Slovenia and its public funding. This law therefore legalises the privatisation and commercialisation of the public institution of RTV Slovenia. That is sufficient reason why the National Assembly, which should defend public interest, should not accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! First, let me say that I fully agree with the previous view that the law is contrary to the public interest. And that's why it was made. The primary policy objective is to politicise the public institution, which is implemented in a perfidious manner. I must give recognition to the current authority that it knows such matters, which are in the express political interest of these options, to carry out in a very perfidious manner. For a long time, those who are Tangled, especially the Slovenian public, are not aware of this, because there is a lot of legal and political beauty. Those who remove the nebula become very clear about what political objectives are. And the political objective is to take over and politically bully editors, journalists at the public institute of RTV. This will be achieved by changing these solutions on the status of the public office and the status of employees. This will keep employees in check, as new contracts will sometimes require even the serviceability of public journalists and editors. This is one of the main political objectives that has been pursued throughout the drafting of this law. Of course, the law also provides unlimited opportunities to encourage RTV contributions, which will be felt by virtually all citizens of Slovenia. However, I must say that the law introduces some of the innovations that some represent as significant progress, but all of this is, of course, one very large political subtle. I must somehow define myself to this integration of the content in Article 6, which discusses public service obligations regarding content, programmes and services. What you have brought by the coalition government's option to integrate the content aimed at cultural and other achievements of the members of the former Yugoslav national common republics, and so on, is a strong emphasis here on how these cultural achievements in the field of the former Yugoslavia should be pursued as far as possible in the Slovenian area. Here's two things. In Slovenia, I believe that this cultural identity of members of national communities from other parts of the former Yugoslavia has not been fed and that the Slovenian Constitution provides them with a full range of expressions of cultural and national identity. Of course, there is some danger in this proposal, but I think it was also one of the sub-tones. Here I feel the influence if I restore the former German circles in the area of Stajerska to bring the German minority back to Slovenia. Of course, this article makes this possible as a result, and before that, it is implicitly envisaged that the Slovenian Constitution should be amended. As already mentioned, this will in the long term try to ensure that Parliament's structure is changed so that other minorities can be institutionally represented in addition to two indigenous minorities. I must say that this should also be seen in the light of a very fresh statement by the German chancellor that multiculturalism has taken place in the area of Germany. This article seeks to institutionalise these efforts to maximise Slovenia's balance. This must be strictly separated from the tolerance and assurance of all these cultural identities for all members. However, it is necessary to have the right measure. And if all over Europe are practically wondering how far it is to go with such policies, it is right to ask ourselves in Slovenia. I have to say, I'm a little worried about that. But I would like to say something else about a matter that should be changed more radically. That's Article 12. which discusses electoral campaign, content, programmes, services of RTV Slovenia. I can watch and watch electoral campaigns take place in other countries around us. We can watch Austrian programs, Croatian programs, Italian programs. And as little as we have electoral campaigns, we are now at the time of the electoral campaign, not only in the public service, but in our newspapers and elsewhere, there is no other country, at least at the time of the rule of this left option. There was a lot more campaigning during the previous government when the opposition had to be given room at the time. That's when it was. And you're interested on that side in the long run, as long as you have authority, for as few electoral campaigns as possible. If we were ahead of these elections now, there would not be such a deadlocked election campaign in all the media, we would come to grips with the real problems of this society and Slovenia, and it would fall after the government that brought us into disaster and collapse. That's how it got out of hand. In fact, I see that the new law does not allow elections to be that holiday of democracy, so that something can also be done for this holiday of democracy through public service. Such miserable content, campaigns such as our public RTV and newspapers, see Work, Evening, it was minimized, in Dnevnik there was still the most. It was completely minimized because of the interest that no candidate would be presented, which the current option does not like. And such things, which are indeed in the public interest, do not resolve the current law because it protects and defends and formalises and institutionalises all the solutions that are in the political interest of the current options. For this reason, once again, this law is not in the public interest and is contrary to the public interest, so I cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has Andrei Magain, seven seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u34	There's a lot to say in seven seconds. Dear Minister and Mrs Potrata, you have probably read the position of the Union of Cultural and Artistic Creators. You read it, but did you read it? It's like watching and seeing. And yet I will quote to you their sentence, which is extremely significant. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There's very little to say in 15 seconds and 7 seconds. Thank you. The word is Ljubo Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, I would like these debates, which we can listen to today, to have the same interest, because we are all talking about the independent public Radio Television of Slovenia, which will act in the public interest, i.e. in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, many times these words have the power to feel in a different way. I will draw only one parallel between one law and another, i.e. now valid and what we are dealing with today, in relation to preparation. If, for the first, i.e. now in force, which we have adopted in the previous term, we can find that the authorship has been silenced for a long time, and then by one of the Members publicly recognised as the sole and exclusive author, we can find that today, in terms of ensuring public interest, this law has a very different basis, as independent experts who have prepared the basis for the content of this law have participated in the preparation. I would like to point out that these elements cannot be forgotten when we speak and express our words in the public interest. When I first received this bill because it brought a type of novelty, I expressed many concerns, including on the basis of this status regulation of radio television – the special status of the lex specialis law. During the debate and some warnings from the professional public, the legislative and legal services and the arguments, we have come to the debate about the reality of the role of Radiotelevision Slovenia in today's space, and a number of questions have been raised, which have also been given a number of answers. Today, with a substantial greater guarantee, I see the success of the proposal of Radiotelevision of Slovenia as a separate legal person of public law of particular cultural national importance. Here we had to ask whether this status allows for a real activity of what RTV Slovenia is doing today. When we talk about this fear of commercialisation, it is right to draw attention to it, but of course it is also right to find out exactly what solutions are in this law so that this does not happen – this seems to me to be extremely important – and whether today it is possible for the Radiotelevision of Slovenia not to enter into its market activities to do something to improve the quality of its operation. And the law brings a clear division of public and private, and I hope that time will confirm that this clear delimitation will not allow the commercialisation and the outflow of funds which must go in the public interest to be obtained on market activities. This seems very important to me, because this is also related to the subscription fee alone. In this way, the operation of RTV Slovenia can also be significantly more qualitative than if it is said that all this equipment cannot be made available to the market. Another very important issue that has arisen here is the attitude towards the status of public servants. Here, too, in my position today, I have made it clear that there can be no change if there is no agreement between the administration and, on the other hand, with employees in this public office. And if the solutions are not coordinated and good for both sides, this change cannot continue. This seems very important to me because we are still listening to these warnings that the exclusion from the public servants system and from the public sector wage system is a threat to their remuneration, their salaries, the amendment of collective agreements. This can only happen if the partners involved in this process find a common agreement. It will be a very important responsibility. Here I think it is very important to have a new arrangement around the programming board and the appointment of administration. And here, this independence, while ensuring independent control, will ensure a significantly higher degree of independence in relation to the law that we have been able to monitor in practice all these years. I also drew attention to this in the position of the Member Club, where there were a number of cases when we were able to directly monitor, how certain interferences occurred in the content of the RTV Slovenia itself. I hope that time will show that the status form of RTV Slovenia and the content of this law are right to confirm what we are saying today by supporters of this law, of course to ensure public interest, improve the quality of programming content, in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Today we have a third reading or third reading of the law on RTV Slovenia, and most of this has already been said through all these readings. Some of the changes are good, and some of the changes I think are completely inappropriate, which we oppose in the SDS Group, and I cannot support them myself. However, there are some solutions in this law that are truly unique and difficult to predict in practice; I do not have a good feeling about it. On this point, I'd like to sign everything my colleague Juliana Bizjak Mlakar said earlier. Of course, this change in the law of politicisation will not be avoided, nor has it been possible to avoid political interference with the existing law. And whoever claims that is deceiving himself. But she's worried about something else. See, in the international public they perceive all these interventions, many times also harsh interventions into Slovenian radio broadcasting and other media, and this has also caused Slovenia to fall significantly on the press freedom scale. The data is completely fresh and was published about an hour ago on the STA: the organization Journalists Without Borders only placed Slovenia in 46th place this year. In last year, Slovenia was on this ranking in 37th place. In the last year of the government Janez Janša was Slovenia in 30th place. Thus, in two years of the Borut Pahor government, Slovenia fell by 18 cities on a scale measured by an international organisation based in Paris, Journalists without Borders. I don't think any of these 130 countries are recording such a fall and a few more of them on this scale. Journalists without borders build their research on the basis of more than 50 questions raised by journalists, researchers, lawyers, representatives of civil society, including diplomatic representations. They are interested in threats to journalists, how many journalists are killed in a country – thank God, they are not yet killing journalists in Slovenia – what is censorship, what are state interventions to the media, what are monopolies and so forth. And all of this has increased dramatically in recent years. Slovenia has dropped 18 cities on this scale, and this research has yet to detect because it has not been able to detect the threat posed by Jureta Jankovic to journalist financi Jaka Elikanu. That is why, Madam Minister, both in the Government and in Parliament, we will have to pay great attention to this huge fall in the future. I hope that we both agree that after this debate on the law on RTV Slovenia, we must devote ourselves to the worrying fall of freedom of the press, media freedom in Slovenia, to find the reasons why this is happening, to make the Slovenian media landscape civilised and decent and, above all, free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. We've said a lot about the RTV Act. Above all, it seems to us that we have not been successful in some of the comments and we have not convinced the ministry that the solutions proposed will not bring the results we would like. We practically don't know what we're going into with some new form that we don't know yet. Despite the fact that some things were then more determined, when we will comply with the company law, when the institution law, I am convinced that such an indeterminate form will cause major problems, so I cannot support such a bill. However, we will probably see below whether and in which direction events will take place, what may also happen to the law, which has so many employees in the RTV office and also opposes others.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Alexander Zorn has the word. [[He's quitting.]] Would you like a word from the government, Madam Minister? Please, Minister Maja Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that we have highlighted some of the issues that you have already heard on behalf of either the Group of Members today or on your own behalf, and we have heard them in the past, we would still like to comment on some of the statements. Also due to the correctness of the public, which may follow this discussion, and because of the fear that the public might believe certain interpretations of the law that they do not adhere to. For example, it is not right that lies are communicated to citizens and citizens within the debates, such as the interpretation that this bill, which I hope will become a real law by today's vote, offers unlimited opportunities to encourage RTV contributions. Mr Jerovšek, I hope you will explain or say that this is not written anywhere, but that the law provides an corrective way of regulating RTV contributions in such a way that it aligns itself with the growth of life needs, which means that RTV Slovenia remains in some way independent in the light of those who can, otherwise, open or close the amount of RTV contributions. And that was the government in the past. It has also been heard today that, at least in recent years, she has manipulated it because, in order to preserve her face and the promises she has made, she has essentially reduced the potential of income from this address, which she has not opened. In this regard, it is also important to emphasise and report that very dangerous and sensitive claims are, when the bill is understood as a balkanisation of the Slovenian space, so I believe that in those who can, in this way in particular, think, open up all sensibilities and reflections and self-reflexions that are obviously absent. In the debates that were present in the segments of some of the debates and debaters, and since I am going up to comment, I will stop by in the interpretation of Mr Jerovsk, who repeats it, as Mrs Mag. Juliana and others, for example, means in a way this law politicizes the public office. It is literally a projection of your own thoughts and actions in the past to the doing of others. If you have ever supported, projected, and done this politicization by those who are in law, then you do not have to think that as you have done, others do. We have actually done all the steps in the field of media with care, with public democratic debate, without the violence we have witnessed in the past. The law cannot be written or converted into an article that, for example, would be spoken in a specific law: a miserable campaign is prohibited. The election hurt you. In doing so, it should be stressed that we are talking about the rules governed by the electoral law, but I think that this chapter should be significantly better and that this chapter should be found in another law, the electoral law, not in this, but in this. It is necessary to maintain the rules set out and not leave empty spaces, it must be said that we have listened to the comments made in the public debate and amended the law in the light of the fact that the participation of the parties is now more widely present and possible within the elections than the solution of the law. I would like to comment on the position of the representative of the Slovenian National Party, who correctly notes that the specifics in the regulation of premises and forms across the European Union are very different, but that they are subordinated to the common principle, which is not only enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty, but always in the newly established principles of ensuring public interest through public services, which are unique and very protected in Europe, remain as a true defender of media freedom and representation of public interest, which we know is highly vulnerable and can also be threatened within the current trends in the world, which are always more focused on commercialisation. We know what's going on. That is why Europe protects this segment constantly. But the countries, rightly said, leave the way this segment is regulated within the basic dimensions, which are very precisely defined. Consciousness, at least in the Slovenian and previous discussions, in the very narrow and rigid principles of the public institution and also in such a deep deal with the system, which is so flexible, so widely developed in Europe, and we have also presented this in our analyses, where there is no question whether it is an economic society, whether it is a share society, whether it is a society or any other, or whether it is a public institution. This is literally not the case in Europe, because they hold on to a system that can be framed by the very principle of governance, a designation that must be subordinated to the principle that is in force on this segment at all. The issue raised, for example, is also said by the representative of the Slovenian National Party to agree with the trade unions that culture is at risk. Here I have to very authoritatively oppose thinking, interpreting and manipulating this law when you talk about it and follow or follow some very wrong interpretation of one of the unions on RTV Slovenia in order to put culture at risk. Ignorance of culture as it has been so far has been threatened. We know that in the past, after all, we are already seeing that lately the deadlines for cultural and artistic shows have improved and are no longer in the late hours of the night. Efforts for some of the missing programmes in this area, which favoured very commercial or, I will say, less noble content, have begun to re-engage or prepare. I will say again what some of you have finally realized is that the largest possible protector representing the interest of the wider cultural space, thinking, education and other content – is protected by the third paragraph of Article 6, which states that if it is not concerned with the majority of artistic content as defined by the law, the procedure for the dismissal of members of the administration must be initiated. And we know how it was that this share was ignored in the past, that there were no quotas that were respected, that we had also been warned in the National Assembly a while ago, and that, because of such disrespect in the past, some informed members of the Supervisory Council even resigned, because they did not, obviously, in the institution that they supervised, achieve that the Administration would respect what the law provides for it. And that's where culture was neglected. That is precisely why, and because culture is described in the very name of this institution, by its mission or institution, this has proved to be a primary and certainly very important concern for law-makers. In their discussions with trade unions, which were rich and we have taken their comments and suggestions into account to a large extent, you know that, at the end of the second reading, the union proposal through the Grims amendment was supported and the draft law was complemented. However, the unions did not worry or fight for it at a time when culture has been marginalized in the past, in the broader sense of the word 'culture', if they are today fighting to maintain the status quo. We wouldn't want that status quo. Mr Germič spoke about the work of new technologies, which the law was intended to identify to a certain extent. New technologies, such as evasive technologies, are also subject to constant levies and so on to changing and introducing resulting new receptions, are included in the law, particularly through that chapter that talks about important new services, also through the directive. As you can see, the area of the multimedia centre, which is defined as a public service, as well as other multimedia services, is defined, but I believe that life in the essential light will also build them up within what practice brings. Also in that segment that talks about digitization or preservation of the material itself. RTV Slovenia is one of the richest archives of our memory, with a carefully processed and carefully protected archive. And this law of care only prolongs, strengthens, and strengthens it. I have to go back to very exposed questions about the status of sui generis, what is this now, what an experiment? Sui generis is already today. The law on RTV Slovenia, as the law on the public institution currently in force, has so many derogations from the traditional rules of the public institution and the specifics, which is logical because it is a huge institution, with 2 000 employees and more, and performs certain interests. This, I will not say instigation, but this suspicion, doubt, anxiety in front of other forms is one of the more painful wounds of our space, which is very conservative, regarding opening up new more flexible forms of regulation not only public but also other matters. We know that the Law on Public Institutions is 30 years old, that within the culture of our segment, where most of the public services are organised by this principle of public institutions, where there is virtually very little or almost no funds, agencies, foundations, institutions, because we are relying on a system that has not evolved at all and which, I say, is the soul of many times more flexible possibilities, greater ambitions, also greater transparency, and which in many circles creates some complacency and therefore also because of this inertity that is not useful. That is why, within the Ministry of Culture, we have devoted a very rich debate on public sector reform to this issue and have come to conclusions where we see that a public institution can be a form, but not enough for such a wide range of different organisations, which are likely to need more flexible approaches even in the context of employment, I believe. And in this light, I must oppose the claims of the Magi. Juliane, who says that the study commissioned by the Ministry of Public Administration speaks of rigidity, somehow does not support solutions to greater flexibility, openness and the search for some of the rigid points of those systems that are good, as this law, for example, brings. Takes that part, say the Economic Services Act, which was already the first to be adopted in the draft, there was never a speech that RTV Slovenia turned into an economic service, you invented it, and then one thing said, but not only the media, you like to drag this mantra forward without verification, because verification means studying, checking, consulting, but reading something, but the easiest way is to multiply a statement that is short and then creating damage. Since it was not an economic service, it was a law that led to certain solutions for economic society. And he was good. But this space is still afraid of it, perhaps once again it will be adopted, when culture will also bring a much more open horizon to us all together and when there will be less fear and when there will be less persistence on the inertness and on the immovable system, because however any small earthquake would bring too much risk, too openness, risks and more. It's the easiest way to be locked up in peace. This study points out that we cannot take one course for systems that are very different – whether it is health or culture – for 30 years and put it all in a common denominator. And the claim that the law legalizes privatisation and commercialisation is the most false and I think it is harmful for listeners and listeners and for those who may now listen or then summarize. This law seeks to open closed, rigid valves of one system, which, if not ever, in the last four years and so on until the day before or before, creates problems not only with good production but with anomalies and a robbery of legality, as different possibilities are created for disputed employment contracts which are incompatible with the status of the public office. You know that. If they were more mean, they'd be repeated or discovered a few more times. And it also eliminates the actual commercialisation that has taken place in recent years. There was a music forum at Cankar's house. What was he talking about? The odds. Okay, quotas were, after all, an expression of a symptom that was completely different. They talked about where the open content of the music area disappeared, where jazz disappeared, where the garage band disappeared, where other content disappeared, and when there were certain entertainment content left on RTV Slovenia. And we know who they are. Commercialisation has actually been happening, and in the end it has been happening since the announcements of the EPP have been interrupted by an information programme or something else. Unrationalizations were happening. After all, on the two programmes we have transmissions from the National Assembly, the third and the second. Is that rational, but is that settled? Of course, I only list a fraction because it rings, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u44	Dear Madam Minister, she has repeatedly mentioned me or responded to me. I insist on my claims. You didn't listen to me. I have told you many times that you are masters in the perfidity of writing, that is to say, the craftsiness and brittleness of texts and articles that allow for all that I have highlighted – also the increase in the contribution. But I am even more convinced, together with the coalition delegation, that this is a matter of politicisation of the public institution and of solutions that are contrary to the public interest. When you propose self-reflection with attempts to balkanize Slovenia. I would also recommend this self-reflection on your part, because the fact is that breaking the national backbone of Slovenians and national Slovenian pride is one of the main ideological and political objectives of the core of the current authority. It's also being done, I'll say, in a subtle way. All the official media also understood that and also played a recent unofficial inauguration of a mayor who was accompanied by music from the southern logs as a provocation. Everyone understood it that way, and I understand it as a provocation. And that's part of the project. Your point is, you think we're gonna do what you did. That's what I did, but it's also a broader option. No, we don't. You'll work harder with the editors and the press, you can see that, and you can see that more neatly. Under the previous government, no one can say that the public office did not work autonomously and politically correctly. I've already pointed out many times. Studio City was impressive. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u45	Mr Jerovšek, three minutes passed for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u46	Just a moment more because the minister had the chance to touch me more than once, and I did. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek, please make up your mind and finish the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u48	I'll check in with you for a little extra time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see more reports. I'm asking you to apply for a debate. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, count to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u50	If I go on with that, do you think we'll do what you did? No, I don't think so. I'm stressing that one more time. And this has already been demonstrated in this mandate through broadcasts on public RTV. I know the press is under pressure. I believe the editors also want to be upright and independent, but they have to move. Repeatedly, I cite the case of Studio City, which during the previous government was a prominent opposition show – according to the guests invited. I believe that the editor would like to have an opposition show at the time – your government, but unfortunately, it is not possible for him. I see that after the invitation of the guests, it suddenly became a huge government show. In entertainment programmes and conditionally humorous sequences during the previous government, politicians had a negative role to play in ruling options. At the moment, negative roles in these entertainment shows have been played by opposition politicians, which is non-European when it comes to some criticism, government policy is always playing a negative role in these negative roles. Not right now. The target is opposition. This confirms that you are doing quite differently. I must say, Madam Minister, you have not convinced me now that there is some serious interest in giving up politics and pressure. I must say, you have found solutions that will allow you to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It would be good if we listened better and even tried to correct our views from the original, if the arguments are that there is a need to change our position. I will not talk about the status of RTV Slovenia, because there has been enough talk about this status, but also why it is right for RTV officials or journalists to be excluded from the system of public servants. The latest events have convinced me, which for a long time defended my position to remain public servants, that it is right from the point of view of providing information in the interest or of performing public service tasks that they are excluded from this system. I also don't want to regulate the RTV content. But all that could be heard today as a note or a comment on what is happening on RTV is still happening under the applicable law – even if someone is dissatisfied with the election campaign as it is. Of course, the new law confers a greater share on non-parliamentary parties for the opportunity to present, but not to the extent that all parties receive the same share as the parliamentary parties, which the Constitutional Court has judged in the end. But more impertinent is the claim, which does not tell why Slovenia has fallen on the press freedom scale following recent findings. I do not currently have the document of the US Foreign Ministry, which we have dealt with on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, where the Freedom of the Media item is explicitly written for 2009 so as not to detect the pressure of the executive branch on the media. This is the case for 2009. Moreover, the government did not intervene when critical thoughts were expressed in the media about the government or the executive branch. However, it is necessary to know that it is always detectable in such assessments if the physical account is with a journalist, if the journalist is denied access to information. And all this happened last year, if you remember. The biggest pressure on the media is the actions of the former Prime Minister, Mr Ivan Janša, against journalists. And that is also in that report, which was pointed out by Sir Miro Petek, a former journalist, on behalf of his profession, he could be so precise as to say what caused the fall. And that's in the information. But I am used to the Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to quote the first sentence, and not the second one because all the information would be disclosed in that. Unfortunately, we have to deal with such things. When someone wonders why we fall on the press and media freedom scale, it would be right to consider and know. I will also not respond to my colleague Magajna, whether I have read or have not read the contribution of the trade union of journalists or creators of cultural and artistic editorials, but I would like to recall that on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, we have heard from the employees of the Supervisory Council about how the share of production in these areas of creating cultural content, content for children and youth has fallen in the past mandate. Once again, look what the law says, it's hard to read, but it's useful to create a real judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today's debate expresses some embarrassment to those who oppose this law, because they are well aware that if we want to ensure a friendly environment for journalism and freedom of speech, we need to ensure legislation that guarantees this independence and freedom. Today we have the first law on the table, and the media law is the second pillar of this journalistic independence and freedom. Unfortunately, as I said at the outset, we are coming too late with these legislative proposals, because by the opposition and by the part of the public there was no desire to change the system that allowed Slovenia to quickly decline its reputation on the press freedom scales. And what was mentioned above was mainly the result of previous manoeuvres and previous laws. It only happened once that the National Assembly has dedicated, I think, six hours of debate on journalists. It was a first-class scandal, and it happened during the previous government and the previous National Assembly. I think that at the time we appeared before the world public as immature and also very unstable about media freedom and democracy at all. Since then, we have been aware that this legislative structure, which includes the quality of reporting, will have to be radically changed to public information. With some articles, we have finally provided a mechanism that will essentially prevent further policy interference: right or left or middle – it is not important at all, but interference with policy in decision-making, staffing and all those processes that define and define public institutions such as Radiotelevision Slovenia. Therefore, this law is important to the public to say that we have finally repaired everything that has been enabled by some swift action by the authorities — then and also by today’s authorities. That is why we have not been able to curb this fall in Slovenia's reputation as regards the attitude of power towards the media, because in fact there were no legislative instruments to prevent further political interference, paradoxically, even opposition policies in the public media. And when some colleagues point to journalists and broadcasts, they simply prove what they are really up to – so that they can continue to influence a specific editor, a specific journalist, a specific broadcast. And they're getting on the nerves of Studio City because it's an intelligent show, not a right or a left, it's a good independent show. But that bothers them, and they keep reminding them of those shows where they can't control journalists. Now they don't have that option – not them, not us. Now we finally get the law and RTV, where journalists will no longer be public officials, but they will be journalists again and editors will be able to operate on the basis of a world that will be defined in a non-political way, where civil society will be the predominant presence. That is why I think there is no doubt, and this debate has also proved that this law is good, that ideal laws are not, but that it is good, especially compared to the previous ones, and that it is starting to, hopefully, a new period for Radiotelevision and also media freedom.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The list of additional applications has been exhausted and I am concluding a full debate on the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The National Assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda and at the latest at 19.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, a proposal for a law on the Nordic Centre of Planes under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education and Sport, Mrs Alenki Kovšca, to complement the explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Members, Members and others present! Planica is the natural and cultural heritage of Slovenia and part of the public interest in sport. For a long-term arrangement and that the Republic of Slovenia's investment in the top buildings of the Nordic centre of Planica can be completed, we urgently need a legal basis. The Planica project is of a complex nature and is of exceptional importance for the Republic of Slovenia, both in terms of the promotion of the country and also in terms of economic and development. Planica is at the centre of media attention at the end of March when the caravan of the World Cup stops in the cradle of summers, and when we read about a number of disagreements about ownership. They're supposed to be a part of history. Before us is a comprehensive reconstruction that will provide a final picture in the form of an elite Nordic Sports Centre. With the purchase of land, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Education and Sport, has entrusted itself with the responsibility to the Planica to burn the final ruin. Moreover, to restore the Planica's reputation and build on an important recognized brand at home and in the world. The complex of the Nordic centre Planica has already served for competitions and preparation of athletes. How important a place Planica has is difficult to measure. The fact is, we Slovenians gathered summers in Planica for Slovenian sports and national holidays. This also made Planica part of Slovenian national identity. The basic objective of the adoption of the law is the implementation of the Nordic Centre Planica project within the deadlines set and thus the possibility of drawing funds from the European Structural Funds is also given. The importance of the adoption of the Nordic centre of Planica law is as follows: for the first time, the concept of the Nordic centre of Planica will be defined, the limits of the area will be defined, the public interest will be defined for construction and operation, the management and functioning of the Nordic centre of Planica or the Sports Institute of the Republic of Slovenia will be regulated, the implementation of interventions will be arranged in a place where, and in what way, the territory of the Nordic centre of Planica can be affected, the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia will be fully regulated in the area where the Nordic centre of Planica will be built, and the implementation of the project will be made possible in the project time frame and the option of drawing funds from the European Regional Development Fund will be ensured. The Nordic Centre Planica Act is urgently needed for the implementation of the Nordic Centre Planica project, which began with the purchase of land in 2008 during the period of the previous government. The adoption of the law will allow the project to be definitively implemented to the extent defined in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u57	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State and Director of the Directorate of Education and Sport, Members and Members! The Proposal for a Law on the Nordic Centre of Planica was discussed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 21st session on 6 October this year. The law dealt with it on a regular basis. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its powers, is consistent with the Constitution and the legal system and with the legislative technical aspects, and has commented on Article 14. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, in its opinion, supported the proposal of the law, had only had doubts about the assessment of the financial resources needed to buy the remaining land in the Nordic centre of Planica. An oral opinion was presented by Anton Peršak at the Committee meeting. However, I would like to point out that you have now also received the opinion of the Council of State on this law. The Committee on Environment and Space, in its opinion, supported the bill and had no comments. The amendments have been tabled by four coalition parties in the course of business, saying Social Democrats, Reals, Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to 12 members. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The Committee was attended by a representative of the proposer, a representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič, the representative of the Law and Legal Service, Marta Briška, and the representative of the State Council, Anton Peršak. Dr Igor Lukšič, representative of the proposers, gave an introductory explanation of the draft law. He said that the purpose of the law was to regulate more legally the area of the Nordic centre of Planica, which included management and operation arrangements, the definition of public interest and the regulation of ownership in the narrow area of the Nordic centre of Planica. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their comments included three sets. In the first, they call for greater clarity in the provisions of the bill; in the second, they point to possible violations of the constitutional principle of infringement of property rights; and in the third, they point to solutions in the draft law which deviate from the established solutions. It considered that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups followed the comments of the first and second sets and that the third sets of comments had already been noted when the proposal for a law on the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance was being considered. After a brief discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, in which the debaters expressed satisfaction at the near realization of the Nordic Centre Planica project, the Committee adopted amendments to the 12 articles of the proposed law. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal, adopted them and, in the light of the amendments adopted, prepared the text of the supplementary draft law, which includes the amendments adopted, pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report and we propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor as part of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u60	Good day to you all! One would expect the Ministry to use more accurate data on such important matters as the Nordic centre of Planica. We can already see in the state assessment that nowhere does it say that the first mountain jumper was made by John Rozman, which was the first jump to carry the name Planica in the world on February 4, 1934, when an Austrian jumped 92 meters away, which was then a miracle in the world. So I believe that the rest of the law is written a little bit more closely and you will have to look very carefully and not "at the first jump" confirm everything together. What is it that bothers a man? With more detailed reading of the bill, one feels that the main objective is simply to force the remaining landowners to have free hands for the simplified writing of any building permits for sports and accompanying facilities in Planica, which means the degradation of the entire territory. The fact that the area of Planica is amputated from the Triglav National Park gives the person a strange feeling that we really do not have enough to preserve the cultural and natural heritage, but that we are subject to some capital that is not exactly the best. The fact is that there will also be no special permanent and reasonable use of the facilities, but mainly for campaign use, because, as Mrs Planica has already said, in a certain period, the world's peak is not only as big and not as global as some would like to say. Skiing is interesting in six, seven European countries and practically nowhere else. Other than that, they're peripheral sports. This can also be seen on the Eurosport or on some other international television network, where it can be seen how high sports industries promote. In the Slovenian National Party, we are also afraid that biotopes will be destroyed, as has been the case.At a time when bulldozers and buggers simply recorded the entire upper layer of the irreplaceable historical hundred-year, multi-year loading of natural sediments there. This was destroyed because of Planica. Of course, we did not have the crime of destroying the biotope in the law at the time, but Mr Kocjančič was in Parliament, who worked very hard not to adopt this amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which sought to introduce the destruction of the biotope into the criminal code. In view of those matters, Mr Kocjančič would be the first to be responsible for this matter. I think that simplifying the procedures for obtaining building permits is unacceptable, and in the end, one wonders what Europe's directives on Natura 2000 and the Nature Conservation Act and, of course, what people feel about nature and the environment in which we live. We fear that the matter will simply be directed to this, as stated in the law,"the area which is intended to regulate the running and rolling routes, walking, cycling and intervention routes and transport and municipal infrastructure and temporary arrangements for the needs of the Nordic centre of Planica". It is difficult to make decisions about a law that also has a positive side. But the government is talking about positive things. And the government praises its products everywhere. However, it is important to note what I have pointed out — that this law might be rewinded, reviewed, processed and sent back to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! In 1935, 1936, the designer Stanko Bludek built a ski jumper named after the critical point K 120 in Planica. In this valley, the jumper did not grow by chance, but because of the excellent geographical and climate conditions that are decisive in the performance of ski jumps. His jumper was a learning center for the construction of future jumps not only in us, but in the wider European and global space. It is written down forever by Planica and K 120 in history that the first jump took place over 100 meters. We Slovenian ski jumpers quickly took over for their national sport and Planica became the most famous sports place in Slovenia. In 1969, a ski industry was established in Planica, where a giant airline with a critical point K 185 was placed in the same space as Brother Gorišek. Primat in this area and the record holds Planica today. With us from year to year, however, we observe how the place of Planica is failing or where we have a rather carefree status. Despite the fact that the Planica applies to national symbols and objects protected also as cultural and technical monuments. Usually we can only patch it up for the annual March World Cup or World Cup. We therefore welcome the proposal of the Law on the Nordic Centre of Planica, which will finally enable the organisation of the area of Planica to a modern sports and tourist centre, which will serve professional athletes, recreationals, visitors, fans of jumping and airstrips and others. Planica as a cradle of ski jumps and flights has to become an orderly and also a future centre for the development of jumping sport in our country, as it is a sector in which Slovenians record great successes and we want to do so in the future. Of course, we expect all interventions to be carried out in accordance with high environmental standards. The Nordic Centre was first recorded in the 2006 national programmes in the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2013. After that, the country began buying land in the valley, but everything did not go smoothly, so a few parcels in the narrower part of the Nordic centre are still privately owned. Since it is an object of exceptional importance for the country and the development and maintenance of ski flights and jumps, the only right decision is to acquire 100 % of the land ownership of state-owned plots in the narrow area of the centre. In the wider area, it is necessary to allow for the normal acquisition of the official right. It was precisely disagreements over ownership that were mostly those that prevented the complete organisation and renewal of Planica. That is why the law brings solutions to the acquisition of real estate for construction and intervention in the area of the Nordic centre. Procedures shall be laid down, as regards buy-in arrangements and service acquisition procedures and the decommissioning process itself. Procedures shall be regulated in accordance with the Law on the placing of spatial arrangements of State importance in the premises. Since this is a sensitive matter for private property, the whole procedure has been carefully examined and the text has also been supplemented on the basis of the opinion and the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the Nordic centre of Planica, additional facilities will be available for training athletes, but they will also be available to locals and tourists, which is extremely important as these facilities will be better used. The comprehensive arrangement of the Nordic centre of Planica will also constitute an additional tourist offer of the entire upper-savina valley and will provide a greater economic benefit to all participants. For the purpose of carrying out and marketing the facilities will be established the Office of Planica, which will take care of the construction and its economy. It will carry out procedures for obtaining building permits and regulating ownership of real estate and, secondly, as a public service, the management of the centre of Planica will be fully under its authority, including the preparation of competitions at the highest level. At the LDS Club, we are particularly happy and hope that a plan will also be made to build a museum that will finally present the development and history of ski jumpings and flights with us, which are part of our sports history. In LDS, we support the Nordic Centre Planica Act and hope for the early regulation of everything necessary in the valley under the Ponca, that Planica will indeed be proud of us as one of the distinctive features of Slovenia in the world. We hope that this arrangement will also take place in conjunction with the living population there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Tom Mencinger will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the Nordic Centre of Planica, which represents another of those projects in the area of infrastructure building that enjoy a broad social consensus. In particular, I am pleased at the consensual debate and the vote on the home labour body, which adopted the bill unanimously. The bill before us is practically necessary and the only possible way to realize the project of building a modern training and competition centre. In addition to defining the area of programming origins and the way in which the emerging centre operates, the main solution is to regulate the ownership structure. In doing so, we want the land situation to be settled on the basis of a common agreement concluded so far with a large majority of the owners, but where this is not possible, the proposal for a law, as a second solution, provides for a classification process. The country is now the majority owner in the area envisaged for the Nordic Centre. However, 100 % of the country's ownership is a prerequisite for the construction of a project, for which only about €40 million of European money is projected until autumn 2013. The Nordic Centre Planica project goes beyond the mandate of this government or one, since the first ideas for it go back several decades. Its importance was also recognised by the previous Government and was ranked as a first priority in the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023, entitled Competitiveness and Faster Growth. In addition to the positive salaries, she wrote that Planica is known for its negative developments related to the regulation and maintenance of buildings, land ownership and the relationship between the association and the organisers. Even though some in the electoral year 2008 optimistically predicted the end of the mountain range of snakes, this has not happened until today. The intertwined ownership structure in the Nordic Centre area, which refused to implement the project, could not be resolved. The current government, together with the Minister of Sport, Dr. Igor Luksic, has accelerated the pace of removing obstacles along the path of a comprehensive update of Planica. Its intention was unequivocally expressed in a coalition agreement where active land policy has been cited as a way to resolve property issues in the provision of national sport infrastructure. In addition, it has established a functioning organisational structure in the Plana to take care of the implementation of investments, performance and maintenance, promotion and other activities in the field of scientific research, educational and educational work. If I can sum it up. The proposal for a law on the Nordic Centre Planica solves a major problem, namely ownership regulation, which is a condition for drawing on European funds by 2013. History is well - known from 1934 until today. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the time has finally come for us to develop the cradle of ski flights into a modern building that will be an example to the rest of the sport world. Nordic center Planica as a training, competition, sports center, jumping, running, snowing, athletic football stadium, preparations that will connect Kranjsko Gora, cycling, walking paths, and could also be listed. All these things connect and I can say that the world-renowned brand of the national related project Planica is also actually a great promotion of Slovenia. It is a great opportunity for all to make this tourism, development, other infrastructure and could also be listed. However, jobs in this area are also an important element. Therefore, as has already been said, we will be happy to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Darko Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! The purpose of the law is to regulate more legally the Nordic centre of Planica, which includes the management and functioning of the Nordic centre of Planica, the definition of public interest in the Nordic centre of Planica, and the regulation of ownership in the narrow area of the Nordic centre of Planica. The basic objective of the adoption of the law is to implement the project of the Nordic Centre of Planica within the project deadlines set. It is some kind of a unique person who complements laws in the field of construction, regulation of premises and others. We don't think it's necessary. All written procedures and obligations may be defined by a decision of the Minister or Government. Procedures for buying-in or disposing of real estate are laid down in the legislation in question. The working methods and powers of the Planica Public Office may be defined in the statute of the Office or in the decision of the Government or the Minister. The law describes the way to achieve two key objectives: to designate a manager of the Nordic centre of Planica and thereby to protect the existence of the plant Planica, to decommission landowners in certain parts of the area of Planica. It therefore defines some kind of operational plan, which is not supposed to be the law, to carry out the land acquisition procedure in the Nordic centre of Planica in public ownership. One of the main objectives is the protection of the newly established plant Planica. Example. In 2005, the Government abolished the Public Institute of Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, then established the Institute of Sport and in 2009 established the new Public Institute of Sport of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore an attempt to control the professional field of sport, which has been the primary domain of the Faculty of Sport and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia for 30 years. In recent years, the public office has been more a place for the employment of administrative staff and service to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. At the same time, they were able to transfer a large package of European money to the Planica Institute, which will be devoted to administration for the most part. The Law basically protects the Planica Institute and its employees, defines the public service of the Planica Institute, which is usually defined in the Statute, the law also speaks of the business operation of the Planica Institute and the amount of the rent, which must be defined in the business plan and not in the law. The law defines even sources of funding. Why exactly is the Planica Institute the most appropriate entity for managing the Nordic centre of Planica? Let us recall the case of the management of investments at the Centre for School and School Activities, led by Mr Jelko Gross. The country had to return a large amount of money to the European budget due to inefficient and non-economic treatment of public funds. Ironically, he's being handled by the same person now. An additional explanation of the acquisition of real estate in Article 14 is also unnecessary, as this is the procedure defined in the legislation in question. In Article 16, for the purpose of the construction and operation of the Nordic centre of Planica, real estate within its restricted area may be decommissioned. The decommissioning procedure shall be carried out as a necessary procedure under the rules of decommissioning of the procedure laid down in the law on the regulation of premises. It is therefore a goal to get to real estate as quickly as possible. The former government has promised dialogue, the current procedures are proceeding without coordination and cooperation with landowners. On the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supported all amendments that followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. We will not oppose the adoption of the law, even though we feel that it is not necessarily necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u68	Your Honor! Planes have held on to the world's reputation for decades. Those waiting for that special March of the year don't have to talk about it. In the early 1990s, Planica missed a lot of developmental opportunities, but she never lost the city of the capital of ski flights. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia correctly responded to these obstacles, which was included in the Nordic Centre Planica project in 2006 as the first development priorities for the development of Slovenia. If the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023 lists what is the subject of the project, then today we are addressing the necessary legal regulation, with an emphasis on public interest in sport and cultural heritage, which is of paramount importance for our country because of the complex nature, in particular the promotion of the country and economic development. If I summarize briefly and perhaps overly, the proposal for a law further regulates the area of the Nordic centre of Planica, defines the manner and form of management of the Nordic centre, regulates the distribution and acquisition of real estate for construction and intervention in the area and regulates the authorisation of interventions to the premises. There is no special secret that there was and there are numerous disagreements about ownership of the main basis of the trip to the complete restoration of Planica to an elite Nordic sports center. It was therefore expected and reasonable that the proposer in the network of a number of rules and conflicting interests in addressing land acquisition and rights issues would serve the principles of public interest domination. The Parliamentary Group is of the opinion that the proposed special arrangement in this area is justified and necessary after all the complications, although initially in the first years of Statehood it was not the only way. It also seems important to us that all actions and activities in this area are carried out in accordance with the rules on conservation of nature, protection of cultural heritage, environmental protection and water, in accordance with the procedures already laid down. In view of the increased international visibility of Kranjska Gora, the implementation of the project will further encourage the development of tourism activities in this traditionally hospitable area of Gorenjska. The Parliamentary Group really supports the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Planica, Slovenian pride and Slovenian shame at the same time. Our first, and in addition to some bright exceptions, probably the world’s most powerful brand, the place where standards were set, broke the record. Planica, a place with a strong connection between a sports worker and a mountain beauty designer, Mr Stanko Bludek. After it is named the biggest annual award in the field of sport in Slovenia – Bludkova's recognition. Unfortunately, everything else has been falling apart in Planica for some time now. With annual global media attention, we read over and over again about a number of disagreements about ownership of the complex, about funding, about purchase disputes from ticket sales and so on. Planica became part of Slovenian national identity. It's time to settle the situation properly. In 2006, the government adopted a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023, which included the Nordic Centre Planica project in the presentation of the project to achieve the objectives of the first development priority strategy of Slovenia. According to the resolution, the project is the subject of the renovation of jumping boats, equipment of jumping boats, construction of a running stadium and accompanying facility for running tracks, a system for artificial snowing, cableways, athletic and foot-and-mouth stadiums, cycling and walking paths, a cultural heritage park and so on. With this development, Planica will also play an invaluable role in the recognition of the country of Slovenia and its general and sports culture in the world in the coming years. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will be happy to support the proposal for a law that gives the country the appropriate legal basis for regulating this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law governs the territory of the Nordic Centre complex and defines the status and use of the lower and wider area. It defines the management of the centre in the spirit of public interest, regulates the acquisition of land that falls into the restricted area and regulates the area of allowing interventions to the premises. All of this follows the fundamental objective set by the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, including the Nordic Centre Planica project. In order for the project to be able to be implemented, a legal regulation is required which will also provide the appropriate legal basis to enable it to be implemented in a timely and quality and legally correct manner in all respects. In particular, it is important to make it possible to draw on European funds, as it would be difficult for Slovenia to cope with the full financial contribution of the project's investment. In this regard, we are almost not already in time difficulties, as European money for this project is expected to be available by September 2013. Procedures for the acquisition of remaining parcels in the restricted area – about 20% of the unpurchased land that must be owned by the State, which is a condition for obtaining European money – can be carried out for quite some time. The result could be the loss of European aid for the region of Gorenje and Slovenia and the consequences could be immeasurable. It is therefore right to talk in peace and in common interest or to talk about a solution to the land that would be needed for the public benefit of all, for the benefit of the Slovenian people and for the preservation of tradition and for the size of mountain jumps and flights. Otherwise, in the spirit of equality, the country also offers all mountain owners the same price to buy land. We do not doubt in our parliamentary group that the proposed solutions and contributions of this law to the development of sport, the economy, the preservation of cultural heritage are undoubtedly a high leap. So at the end of the day, the next. Every Slovenian is proud of Planica. I think there are many of us who know Planica, and when we look at how sad some of the historical objects of this sport, which the Slovenians are really proud of, we want to see the planister fanfares in the world, so we will also support this law in our parliamentary group in the spirit of what I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION LAW, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. A supplementary explanation of the bill will be presented by the mag. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u74	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In preparing the new Law on International Protection, we focused mainly on applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection and their rights. The current law governing international protection has proved to be flawed in its implementation in practice. We were also reminded of the shortcomings of the law by NGOs. This is also why we have decided to appoint representatives of NGOs to the working group that is preparing new proposals. By amending the procedure for the recognition of international protection, by system-wide regulation of the legal representation of unaccompanied minors and by extending the rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection, we will in particular raise standards for applicants for international protection as well as for persons with recognised international protection. Allow me to mention at least some significant changes in the international protection procedure. The period for bringing an action against a decision issued in an accelerated procedure shall be extended from 3 to 8 days. A compulsory conduct of the main hearing shall be introduced in the proceedings before the administrative court if the court finds that the actual situation has been incompletely and incorrectly established, or if a misjudgment has been made of the facts found. The aim of this proposed solution is in particular to improve the quality of decisions in the process of granting international protection, to reduce procedures for granting international protection and to raise the standards of the entire procedure of international protection. Free legal aid is also introduced at the first stage, that is, until the decision is taken in the procedure of international protection. We have taken into account several proposals from non-governmental organisations, including the division of the procedure into a preliminary procedure and an international protection procedure, increased the scope of translation of decisions, introduced additional information from applicants, narrowed the possibility of leaving a personal interview and changed the grounds for dealing with matters in an accelerated procedure. An application for international protection may no longer be rejected in an accelerated procedure solely on the grounds that the applicant has not expressed his intention to submit the application as soon as possible without a reasonable reason. An important set of changes is also in place in unaccompanied minors. The system is governed by the entire area of legitimate representation, by strict representation in the international protection process also on the exercise of the rights of minors in the field of education and in the field of health and the conditions for the establishment of a legitimate representative and the introduction of compulsory training. The standards for the skills of employees to work with minors are increasing, the level of health care is increasing under the same conditions as those applicable to RS citizens, and access to education for minors is easier, and legal representatives of the applicant must also participate. The new rights of applicants for international protection include the introduction of free legal assistance at the first stage, the introduction of a allowance for applicants for international protection who are established in an asylum home, access to the labour market after nine months of application, the current regime talks about 12 months of application, access to higher education and university education under conditions that apply to Slovenian citizens. In the case of persons with recognised international protection, we have resolved the definition of family members, introduced monetary compensation for non-integrated refugees, introduced one-off financial assistance for refugees, extended the period for cash assistance for schoolchildren and introduced notification of conditions for the extension of subsidiary protection. The bill also brings some news about the documents. This introduces a residence permit as a separate document, in the form of a biometric card that will also show the identity of a person, and a biometric passport for refugees whose validity is extended from one to five years. Since the bill brings a lot of positive changes that will improve the situation of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection, we propose that you adopt a proposal for a new law. I also propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision to draw up, as a result of the scope of the amendments, an official consolidated text of the law approved by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 23rd meeting, on 7 October 2010, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and of the comments of the Ombudsman. Representative of the proposer, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior Damjan Lah, in his supplementary explanation of the articles, said that the proposal for a law addressed the shortcomings which have been demonstrated since the implementation of the Law on International Protection in the implementation of procedures for the recognition of international protection and in the implementation of the rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection and are in line with international standards in this field. In particular, the proposed law provides for the following solutions: standards for the rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection are raised; the right of unaccompanied minors to be assisted by a refugee adviser is laid down in first-degree procedures and the scope of the legal representative of a unaccompanied minor is expanded; the scope of family members with whom a person may request family reunification with recognised international protection. Changes in the procedure for the recognition of international protection are envisaged, including the procedure being divided into a preliminary procedure and an international protection procedure. Amendments are also provided for consultants for refugees and interpreters and in the field of judicial protection, termination of the status of a person with recognised international protection and instruments for persons with international protection. In the presentation of their written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that, given the scope of legislative interference in the current legal text, the proposed amendments or additions relate to a large proportion of 142 articles of the basic law, while proposing the introduction of certain new articles. Mr Bogomir Vnučec, representative of the Council of State, also took part in the meeting, who presented the written opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Procedure and supported the proposed law. Ms Cornelia Mrzel, Deputy Ombudsman, also took part in the meeting, who made comments to the Ombudsman. In the debate, members of the Committee asked whether NGOs had also participated in the preparation of the novel. The amendments adopted followed the Ombudsman's proposal to provide free legal assistance at the first stage of the international protection procedure. The representative said that NGOs were actively involved in the preparation of the novel. With regard to free legal aid in first-degree proceedings, however, he said that the bill provided escorts to minors, while others did not, since in such a case they could put Slovenian citizens in an unequal position, and otherwise the applicant did not object to a different regulation. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4a, 10, 12, 42, 60, 72, 104, 106, 107, 108 and 112 of Article 108 and the amendments to Article 99 of the LDS. The Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 12, 13, 102 and 103. On the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, he finally voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary proposal of the law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! We will support the amendment of the law on international protection in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The text of the law changes to the benefit and improvement of the status or position of the applicant for international protection and of persons with recognised international protection and their rights. The proposed amendments systematically regulate the area of international protection, extend the range of rights belonging to applicants and persons with recognised international protection. In practice or in implementation, the law has proved to be flawed, including NGOs that have participated with their representatives in the drafting of the law for the first time so far. They participated in an interdepartmental working group called by the Government, which is why some of the solutions are also the work of NGOs. This is the type of solutions that are drawn up on the proposal of NGOs. I would therefore like to commend the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, who have included NGOs in the drafting of the amendment, since the latter have been repeatedly over-examined and ignored. The shortcomings addressed by the proposed amendments and additions to the law are mainly affected by compliance with international standards in the field of international protection with the aim of ensuring the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Certain solutions are aimed at raising standards set in accordance with European asylum policy and other international standards. Some solutions focus on improving the conditions for successful integration of persons with recognised international protection into Slovenian society, but by maintaining mechanisms and instruments to prevent potential abuses. If I briefly summarize the main novelties of the text of the law. The procedure for the recognition of international protection is changing. There have been problems in the field of unaccompanied minors, in particular with regard to the establishment of legal representatives in determining their roles. The system is governed by legal representation for unaccompanied minors, a range of rights is extended or new rights are introduced for applicants. In our view, this part of the amendment is going in the right direction, as we support and advocate the improvement of standards in the field of international protection at the LDS. The Novela further introduces the extended definition of family members in persons with recognised international protection and adds the reasons for the termination of the status of international protection, amends the provisions on interpreters and amends and supplements in the international protection procedure, which is further divided into two parts: the transitional procedure and the procedure for international protection. Amendments in the field of re-examinations are also being introduced with a view to aligning the legislative provisions with the procedural directive and in the field of judicial protection, it is proposed to extend the time limits for initiating an administrative dispute. An important part of the novelty is the new rights for applicants for international protection, namely the introduction of free legal aid at the first stage, the introduction of a allowance for applicants for international protection, access to the labour market after nine months of application and access to higher education and university education. In view of all of this, the legal text brings about an improvement and an increase in international protection standards, as recommended by European asylum policy as well as other international standards. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are confident that the proposed solutions undoubtedly raise the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, so in the LDS Club we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The proposed amendment to the law on international protection, which we are considering today, is due to identified shortcomings in the implementation of the current law. Contental innovations mainly affect the treatment of unaccompanied minors, as this is a specific population and positive solutions also apply to refugee advisers. It is these advisers who can prevent a wide range of conflict situations by learning the problem, while at the same time increasing the quality of legal aid to applicants for international assistance. By adopting the amendment to Article 12 at the home work body and the terminological corrections at the National Assembly, which also discuss free legal aid at first stage, we are further raising the standard of the rights of applicants for international assistance. In the Group of Social Democrats, we hope that such a solution will also prove to be good in practice. In addition to remedying identified shortcomings, this novelty raises standards in procedures to recognise international protection to vulnerable categories of persons. It introduces allowance and access to higher education and university education. However, in the field of health care, the scope of the rights of health care for minors is widening. All of this will help to bring people into more rapid integration if they want to, integrate people into life and work in our environment, because the law on international protection is based on the principle of integration and not return. The news is also related to documents for persons with international protection who introduce a permit for the residence of foreigners in a new form containing biometric protection elements of facial recognition and fingerprints, but also to the revision of the safety standards of the passport for refugees. All of this is in line with the acquis of the European Union. The proposed amendment to this Act explains why some comments by the Ombudsman and other non-governmental organisations dealing with applicants for international assistance could not be accepted. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have always advocated respect for international standards in ensuring and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, including those who, due to political, economic or other circumstances, are no longer able to live in their own country. We have also always advocated that those seeking assistance in our country be provided with higher standards than those laid down in the European Union Directives. The proposal for a new law on international protection and amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups will be supported by the Social Democrats. Neither is it for us and there can be no question whether we will respect, for example, the Geneva Convention or not. For us, it's simply a contrite son of a qua non. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovska will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that, for the second time in a good year, we are already faced with the consideration of the amendment of the Law on International Protection, which is why we believe that there is so much interference in the text of the law, which is also recognised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, only the backdrop of the Ministry's lack of activity in other more acute areas. In the case of last year's amendment of the law, it was necessary to amend the provision setting out the conditions for the relocation or private accommodation at the time of fulfilling the conditions laid down by law. The purpose of the Law on International Protection adopted at the end of 2007 and entered into force 4. 1. 2008 was a comprehensive regime of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia and replaced the then applicable law on asylum. Such a roofing law was needed for the transfer of the European acquis into Slovenia's legal order, meaning the establishment of a single European asylum system. The Law on International Protection, adopted in the previous mandate, follows illegal acts forming a single European asylum system and therefore applies exclusively to third-country nationals and stateless persons. A single European asylum system has been and is established on the basis of the establishment of a multiannual Hague programme and the International Protection Act has therefore established, in accordance with the Council Directive on minimum standards for procedures for the recognition or withdrawal of refugee status in the Member States, a fundamental guardian of the legal protection of applicants for international protection, namely free legal assistance in judicial proceedings. This is what refugee advisers offer in the proceedings before the administrative authorities and the court. In the SDS Group, we do not agree with the proposal for a solution that introduces more favourable or modified standards for granting international protection. We believe that the current international protection regime in the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions for granting international protection follow directives that form a single asylum system or are comparable and consistent with the arrangements of other Member States of the European Union. With regard to the proposal for a solution in the marriage novel, an example of a proposal for the introduction of a allowance for applicants of international protection established in an asylum home, or of a proposal for the introduction of one-off cash assistance, where, in the second reading of the SDS Group at the home work body with the amendment proposal, we proposed the maintenance of the applicable regime, the arrangements followed by the purpose of international protection and the means to achieve its objectives. In this regard, we have taken into account the considerations expressed by the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that illegal migration must be prevented in accordance with European standards, not due to political persecution and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. At the same time, we agree with the solutions in the field of international protection following the procedural directives and other directives of the European Union that build a single European asylum system, but we oppose the non-critical solutions to asylum rights, as the bill's proposal added with the proposed amendments, so we will abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The bill before us today is primarily about complying with international standards in this area, as the speakers have already said. Its main purpose is to ensure and protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of applicants for international assistance. The Common European Asylum Policy is moving in the direction of raising standards, as this present novel is also envisioned. However, some of the solutions proposed are aimed at improving the conditions for the successful inclusion of persons with recognised international protection in Slovenian society. Thus, the proposed amendments relate primarily to asylum counsellors, interpreters, unaccompanied minors, family members of the applicant, as well as procedures for the recognition of international protection and judicial protection. In the Parliamentary Group, we have proposed amendments to Articles 12 and 13, which is the introduction of legal aid at the first stage. We are pleased that this amendment has been adopted. We have already committed to the coalition agreement to increase the security and rights of applicants for international assistance. In our Group of Members, we believe that free legal aid at the second stage may be totally useless in court, as the applicant is obliged to state facts and evidence at the first stage of the procedure and the right to free legal aid at the first stage will undoubtedly ensure a more effective guarantee of his rights, as the Ombudsman has also pointed out. Access to free legal aid at the first stage will therefore improve the fairness and efficiency and quality of decision-making at the first stage, thus reducing the likelihood of appeal proceedings and their associated costs. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that less and less lawyers are willing to participate in the field of international protection. According to the Ministry, only 9 lawyers are registered in this area, and only three of them are active. We are convinced that this problem needs to be properly addressed, probably in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, and thus to increase the legal security of applicants for international protection. As we say, we are pleased that these changes have taken place, and we will be happy to support the law because it introduces standards in Slovenia that are similar to European standards, and perhaps in some areas we even take the lead and think we can be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 2007, the Law on International Protection was replaced by the Asylum Act 1999. The Constitutional Court’s decision, which found non-compliance with the Constitution in the part of the Act, had already undergone its first amendment in 2009. Today we have an extensive novelism that changes far more than one third of the articles of the basic law, for which a new law should be proposed according to the rules, not its amendment and amendment. The scope of such changes is unclear to us, as the applicant in the explanatory memorandum only says that since the entry into force of the law in 2008 the procedures for the recognition of international discharge and the implementation of the rights of carriers for international protection and persons with recognised international protection have shown certain shortcomings that need to be rectified. The Novela also enforces editorial corrections to the legal text, with 113 articles in the law, which basically has 142 articles. It's a little unusual at least what you might say, even though it's only been adopted recently. The basic objective of the bill is to supplement the existing legal text with editorial corrections in the sense of the terminological unification of the legal text. In addition, the law is complemented by minimum substantive corrections designed to ensure a clearer implementation of the existing provisions. In the substantive sense, the law substantially raises the standards of rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection. Or is this really the right time and if this is really necessary, we should just ask ourselves. The financial consequences of this law are not great, but at a time when we are faced with many major problems, this law can wait a little while and we will not support it in the Slovenian People's Party at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The New Law on International Protection brings some important innovations that will serve to raise the standard of procedure for obtaining international protection and raising the standard of rights for persons under international protection or applicants for them, and to address the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law in practice. Solutions aimed at raising standards followed a common European asylum policy and international requirements. Other solutions are aimed at improving the conditions for more successful inclusion of persons with recognised international protection in Slovenian society. Specific solutions bring about a better economic situation through the introduction of pocket money, one-off cash and a cash refund and a faster possibility of integration into the labour market. The level of health care is increasing and the accessibility of higher education and university education is increasing. There is also a greater emphasis on family reunification. Among the innovations that significantly increase the quality and speed of procedures for the recognition of status under international protection is certainly the introduction of free legal aid and a consultant at the first stage of the decision-making process. Amendments and amendments to the law will ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms both for applicants for international protection and for those who already enjoy this status, so we support the amendment of the law in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u89	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u90	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, Secretary of State! The purpose of the amendment of the Law on International Protection is primarily to address the shortcomings of the existing legal text, which have been demonstrated in the implementation of the legal provisions of the applicable law. It is mainly about compliance with international standards in the field of protection and protection of human rights and freedoms when it comes to applicants for persons who have already been granted international protection in Slovenia. The novel slightly raises the standard, as it requires and sets European civil policy, and also leads to improving the conditions for successful integration of persons into Slovenian society, but without the possibility of abuse in the field of international protection. The bill introduces innovations mainly in the housing of persons with recognised international protection, financial assistance, healthcare and education. The provisions referring to the rights of persons adopted under the quota in Slovenia are also being amended. A card form shall also be introduced containing biometric protective elements, facial recognition and fingerprints. It is a comprehensive transposition of the provisions of the Common European Asylum System into national law and the introduction of effective and rapid asylum procedures when third-country nationals are addressed and the provision of international standards. This is probably not what I think would solve the issue in its entirety, as the citizens of the European Union are not involved in this. On the other hand, new rules of the European Union are being drawn up, which will re-organise this area and again need coordination. In view of the large number of amendments tabled in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it would be better to prepare a new law that would solve more comprehensively and more definitively with the European Union. Given the fact that the European Union is preparing the qualifications directives governing this area, it would suggest that we wait a little longer for the exercise not to be repeated. In spite of everything in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the adoption of amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2010 The SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups tabled amendments to Articles 12, 13 and 106. The amendments are substantively linked, so I am putting them to the debate. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the real property of the State and the self-government of local communities. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Representatives of the Government are from the Ministry of Public Administration, who are on their way, so I am adjourning the meeting for five minutes. We'll pick her up at 12.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the meeting and the 14th item of the agenda. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u93	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members! The fundamental question to which the Government had to respond immediately at the time of the start of its mandate due to the consequences of the crisis was how to halt the rise in costs that the country uses to the fullest extent for its own functioning and the subsystems that we carry out the distribution of public goods, or even to reduce them in order to preserve the state's public finances. We have also drawn direction in the exit strategy. If I sum up the decision of the Government, the essence of the decision could be reinforced by the following words: we will not lower nor the standards nor the scope of public and administrative services that were provided to our citizens before the crisis, before we have a thorough analysis of the situation, we will not answer two fundamental questions. Are all the tasks and procedures, as set out today and for which we exist, necessary in the public interest and in order to protect this? Are the institutions we carry out these tasks optimally organized and perhaps not spending too much on our existence? The analysis of the situation has shown that we are not cost-effective and not procedurally rational in the area of the management of dedicated immovable property that we need for our operations by the judiciary and other bodies, and that the optimisation of business processes can be used to find savings and to increase the efficiency and transparency of truly limited financial resources, as well as the more cost-effective management of real estates or business premises that we buy, build, rent and maintain today's public institutions. The necessary changes, optimisation of business processes, institutional leaps, represent both the rules that you will be considering today. You're dealing with one now. The news of the Real Estate Act and of the Self-Governmental Local Communities has significantly affected the centralisation of real estate management, as well as the response to the shortcomings that have arisen in the implementation of this law in the past. In an important part, however, we are removing individual administrative burdens. The news, if I highlight them in a few points, is: a new regulation of the management plans, here we add a real estate lease plan so that both the local community and the state can see how much money is spent on rentals. The plans of action, i.e. purchases, constructions, leases, will be submitted in a new manner when the budgets of the National Assembly or municipalities are drawn up at local level, equal to those for the purchase of movable assets over EUR 10 000 when the budget is prepared. The news is also that the implementation of these plans will need to be reported once a year when the final account is submitted at local or national level, to what extent and how carefully it has been implemented in a public financial sense. The non-necessary immovable property to be identified will be transferred on the basis of the Government's decision to the Public Property Fund, which will have to manage this property. The new government will no longer decide on the conclusion of more important legal transactions than it has so far, but in the framework of approved annual plans it will be the obligation of individual users, operators or public funds, because it is purely professional tasks, as this will be done on the basis of legally defined procedures. This law establishes mandatory valuation, public auctions and so on. The following regulation updates individual institutions, such as central real estate records, with regard to the free disposal of state property, tighten the conditions and only the decision on this issue is reserved to the Government. I propose that this bill, which has an important part to do with the law below, the honourable Members and Members, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at its 23rd session. Ten. 2010 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on the real estate of the State and the self-governance of local communities submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. Members and members of the Committee received, in addition to the proposal for a meeting, the comments of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the comments of the Municipality of Velenje, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national arrangements. In addition, amendments from SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS members' groups and SDS members' amendments were tabled on the draft law. In a supplementary explanation of the bill, the representative of the proposer, Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs, presented the basis and reasons for the drafting of the bill and the fundamental solutions it brings. The bill provides for the centralisation of real estate management processes and eliminates unnecessary administration. The basis for its preparation was a thorough analysis of the situation in this area and the 2008 Court of Auditors report, which drew attention to an uncoordinated and economically unoptimal real estate policy. For reasons of centralisation of state-owned property, the proposer decided on a new conceptual framework in this area and proposed the establishment of a new public law person of a real estate fund to which the bulk of the property of the State will be transferred. The new centralised management and management of the property of the State must also be adapted to the real estate management institutions of the State and the local self-government communities. The main objective of the bill is therefore to adapt the legislation in force to a new centralised form of State property management, to define a public fund in relation to other state-owned real estate managers, to adapt the State Real Property Management Institute to a new regime, such as annual real estate management plans, internal real estate market, central real estate records, simplification of real property management procedures and so on. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, who said in her presentation that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were largely taken into account in the proposed amendments of the coalition. However, she pointed out Article 41 and, on the basis of that warning, the Committee also adopted its amendment to this Article. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which concluded that the Commission was in favour of the proposal for a law. The Committee also took note of the comments made by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Municipality of Velenje, which were partly consolidated in the amendments to the coalition. The Committee adopted two amendments to Articles 12 and 41, as well as amendments from SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9, to Chapter 4, and to Articles 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 23, 29, 33, 37, 40 and 41. The amendment of the parliamentary group to Article 12 has become irrelevant. In view of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended amended law is before us today and the amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Kolarič, you can just stay for the speaker, because you have the floor to present the position of the Social Democrats' Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much again. When we are talking about the property of a country or of a self-governanced local community, we are also referring to the value of property owned by a state or a self-governanced local community. We also associate good real estate management with whether the state and the municipalities act in such a way as to preserve or even increase the value of these assets. Therefore, we sometimes hear that it is the sale of property or in some other way of estranged property that sells state or municipal silver or treats that property, I apologize as a pig with fur. The applicant specifically pointed out that the adoption of this law is also necessary in order to introduce a new conceptual regime for the treatment of property owned by a State established by the establishment of a public real estate fund. The purpose of the proposed law is to introduce all real estate into the Central Real Estate Register, so that the real estate institutions adapt to the new regime in order to simplify the procedures for the management of real property and the procedures for the adoption of annual real estate management plans. All these measures are intended to follow the principle of economy, remuneration, equal treatment, transparency and the public. In the decision on the country's annual real estate plan, of a single value of more than 300 000 euros, we have just warned Members and Members of Parliament about incomplete records, perhaps not always rational decisions in terms of exchange, surrender or rental of real estate. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that state and municipal property must be regulated as a matter of urgency. If the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities is adopted, the current law on real property of the State, the provinces and the municipalities will be replaced, and we believe that we may be able to improve any provision further. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is a last-minute time for all this property to be regulated and the law to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the real estate of the State and the self-governance of local communities, which we have before us in second reading, is linked to a proposal for a law on public real estate, which we will deal with later, which provides the basis for the establishment of a centralised public fund of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the management of state immovable property. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we believe that caution should also be exercised in the solutions to this law. The Act provides for the centralisation of the real estate management processes and it follows from the proposals by the law-maker that the basis for its preparation is an analysis of the situation in this area and a 2008 Court of Auditors report which highlighted the uncoordinated and economically unoptimal real estate policy. The bill proposes a new conceptual framework in this area, namely the establishment of a new public law person of a real estate fund to which the bulk of the property owned by the State will be transferred, on grounds of centralisation of property ownership. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, within the framework of the state's real estate assets, we support all the solutions that ensure such organisation, which enables faster achievement of the objective and efficient management of funds. But we are opposed to solutions. establishing new persons of public law. which has already become a rule in this term. When a new person is established under public law, human resources solutions and spatial capacity must also be provided. Is this the right way or the right solution at a time when anti-crisis measures should be taken and when the Government and the Ministry of Public Administration are talking about saving in the public sector? We don't think so. Instead of discussing today the content of the area of effective management of the property of the State, we are discussing the form. The new centralised management of the property management of the State is also being adapted to the real estate management institutions of the State and the self-governing local communities, such as the annual real estate management plans, the internal real estate market, and the central real estate records. Whether this represents a simplification of the real estate management process and a simplification of the process of adopting the annual real estate management plan will respond to its implementation. In addition, the question of the appropriateness of the nomotechnic approach should be further highlighted, since both mothers could be regulated in one law. The duplication of certain standards of both laws that we have before us today has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Although we will not oppose the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will monitor its implementation in terms of its effectiveness in the context of the availability of the state's immovable property and the self-governance of local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u101	Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary! According to the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, more than 500 owners of the property of the Republic of Slovenia are listed on the property list, which brings about the unanimity and imprudentness of the conduct while at the same time impeding a coherent and economical real estate policy. The law therefore transfers governance and ownership of state real estate to the public real estate fund, which will ensure a harmonised, economical and economic optimum real estate policy. Thus, the Public Property Fund Act, which is the second point of today's meeting, will be directly linked to the point currently being addressed, transfer of immovable property owned by the Republic of Slovenia to a public real estate fund with certain exceptions. Amendments and additions to the law are not only proposed because of its adaptation to the new design of the central management and handling of real property, but also relate to more effective implementation of the law in practice. The provisions on the jurisdiction of decision-making in matters relating to the real estate of the State and provisions on the regulation of real property management methods, provisions governing the free transfer of real property and provisions on the burden of real property are therefore being amended. The law brings a series of innovations that are needed for a more cost-effective and cost-effective management of state immovable property, and we will therefore support the law in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The Real Estate Act was enacted in early 2007. This was the first general rule on the management and management of the real property of the country, which systematically and uniformly regulated procedures for the acquisition, possession and management of the real property of the State and the municipalities and made it more efficient and transparent to manage and dispose of the real property of the State and the self-government local communities. According to the proposaler, the real estate managers also accepted the law well, had no major comments and its provisions were also implemented in practice. In fact, the proposal for a new law before us is the result of the proposal for a law on the public real estate fund of the Republic of Slovenia and is closely linked to it. The establishment of a new legal entity of the public law of the real estate fund requires certain changes, including legislative changes, in the field of the management of the real estate of the State. In addition, the proposal addresses some of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in practice in the implementation of the provisions of the current law. More than 500 real estate managers of the Republic of Slovenia actually have an unanimity and impossibility of conduct, thus impeding a coherent and economical real estate policy. The management system is thus left to the decision-making of individual operators, which prevents harmonised and economically optimal real estate policy. As a result of this, we support the idea of establishing a system that will help guide the uniform conduct of all law bodies. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, despite the principled agreement on the idea and the theoretical advantages that such maintenance and management can offer, we are not most confident that the proposed concrete solution will produce the desired effects. Are we really not just going to create additional financial implications for the state budget by setting up a new public fund legal entity? Will self-management and control of property really be more effective? We don't have any guarantee that that's what's gonna happen. The government simply cannot be trusted blindly about its well-intentionedness. The words that are beautifully written or spoken are one, and unfortunately, the practice in all areas is quite different. In the Slovenian People's Party, as we say, we will not support the proposed solutions strongly and we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! The reason for the adoption of the law is the centralisation of property management and the establishment of a public real estate fund. As shown in the proposal, the State is committed to the transparency of the particular property data and its indicative value, and is also reminded of the valuable records, which must not be more than six months old on the date of adoption of the annual real estate management plan. Thus, the amendment of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities and the proposal for a law on the Real Estate Fund of the Republic of Slovenia are intertwined in some way, since the basis for both novelties relates to the area of management of immovable property of the State. The proposer shall ensure that so far there has been no political will to undertake centralisation in terms of optimisation of business processes. Both proposals are based on the knowledge that costs need to be reduced. The desired objective is to eliminate unnecessary processes relating to the management of immovable property. That something needs to be changed in this area, the Court of Auditors noted in 2008 that it had pointed out non-conformity and to economically-optimal real estate policy, which was also the reason why the applicant had decided on a new conceptual framework in this area and proposed a new person of public law to whom he would transfer the bulk of the immovable property owned by the State. It is based primarily on the principle of efficiency and the principle of transparency. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the bill is well-intentioned, but we estimate that it is not accepted by all participants in the procedure. In particular, there are congregations here that are also directly concerned and must be heard by them. It is noted that the adoption of the novel would make it very difficult for the municipal administration to operate and to carry out procedures for sales, broadcasts and purchases for investment purposes, which would also have a negative impact on the municipal budget. It would therefore be right not to rush into the adoption of a law to take into account all proposals for improvement, as the current regime is also appropriate from a cost-effective point of view, as it has not been necessary to assess all real estate in the annual plan so far, but only for the purposes of individual programmes. The new law in the Slovenian National Party will not receive support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The fact facing the current coalition has also led to these two laws that are before us today. In the absence of political will to date, this coalition has been able to optimise the business processes that have not been regulated so far, because the proposals of both regulations are actually due to the knowledge of the urgent reduction of the costs that we are currently spending on the payment of the premises necessary for the functioning of the State institutions and to the urgent reduction of the costs that we will achieve, following this proposal and the next novelty, namely the proposal for a law on the public property fund of the Republic of Slovenia, by optimizing the business processes. The basis for both novelties is also a careful analysis of the state-of-the-art property management required for the work of the State administration at both national and secondary levels and of the report issued by the Court of Auditors in 2008, when it assessed the management of this immovable property. At the LDS, we would like to emphasise, although the next provision is to establish a new person of public law, that it is to bring together existing support services today dispersed on all ministries and other state bodies and not to employ new public officials, but to optimise the business processes that existing staff are currently carrying out through various ministries and other state bodies. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the real estate of the provinces and municipalities is therefore the result of the first establishment of the Public Property Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the content is included in the law to be dealt with under the next item of the agenda. The Ministry of Public Administration has carefully assessed all the business processes that have taken place today and has optimised them and tried to respond to all the uncertainties and obstacles that have been demonstrated by the practice of implementing the rules in all these years. Among the first changes in this novel are the new content of plans for the management of immovable property. A plan for the rental of immovable property is further added. We all know that this country does not have a central record of the rental contracts concluded by individual authorities for the purpose of providing space for its work, so this is also being introduced. The procedure for adopting these plans is also different. These will be adopted by the National Assembly or by the municipal council at local level in the process of adopting budgetary documents, as each budgetary user must already anticipate these costs when preparing the current budget for the following year. Individual programmes for the management of the real property of the State shall be abolished, as their content is transferred to the real estate management plan in all its components. The draft law also provides that any real estate that is not necessary to satisfy the spatial and other needs of the public authorities will be transferred regularly from the conclusions to the real estate fund. These new tasks of the public fund shall also be adapted to the records, the provisions on central real estate records to be managed by the Fund. However, it is important to provide that each year reports on the implementation of the country's fixed assets management plans will be accompanied by the final accounts, which means important transparency for the National Assembly as well. So far, these budget items have been hidden in an important document, which is in the final account, and now an integral part of the report will be how the approved plan actually dealt with immovable property. Since we believe that both proposals of the law, namely the law on the real property of the State and the self-government local communities and the proposal for a law on the public property fund of the Republic of Slovenia, constitute progress towards transparency and allow for more responsible treatment of the taxpayer's money, we will support both proposals of the law in the LDS. We are aware of the efforts made by the Ministry of State to prepare both regulations and welcome their work. At the same time, we note that the operation of the Fund will be under the care of the public and this assembly, so we expect that, in the event of any irregularities, it will now be completely clear who are the ones responsible for the errors or irregularities that might occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE PUBLIC NATIONAL COMPOSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much, again for your word. Respected and respected! With a thorough review of the comparative arrangements - if you want - of the Republic of Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, you can see that these are the countries with real estate for the purposes of state authorities and other public authorities regulated by centralised persons of public law. In Germany, this is called a federal legal person of public law, a real estate institution that owns all real estate. In Austria, this agency is 100% state-owned. In Italy, this is a 100% state-owned enterprise. The arrangements we have witnessed in the Republic of Slovenia are cost-effective and organisationally too wasteful. It does not allow real estate management. When individual state authorities do things, rent spaces, build up, invest in these premises, perform tasks that are not their primary tasks, and that is dispersed – we have 500 real estate managers – there is no transparency, as respected Mr Germič has found, there are no central records, leases, and there is nothing else to answer the fundamental question of how the most rational real estate owners are. The organisation of a central person of public law in the way we propose is completely European comparable – from this point of view I reiterate, and this is also reflected in the proposal for a law – and this real estate public fund will come to all the employees who perform these tasks today at the departmental ministries dispersed. Not only are they themselves with their personal income, but the management of this public real estate fund will be among these employees, as there is no funds for new jobs. In the long term, there will certainly be fewer employees for these needs. This is also an assessment of the situation. As there will be no need to replace those who will leave the public real estate fund, it will be possible to organise business processes more optimally. We will go with the people of those ministries from which the most public officials go to this fund. We're also going to lose funds, material costs. Computer equipment and a proportionate part of staff, professional services will go along with the tasks of this central public law person. We will also provide the information system at the Ministry of Public Administration because we draw from the European Structural Funds to establish a central register of immovable property. I reiterate that this is a completely financial, neutral situation. The reason why we do not support this work, that we do not optimize business processes here for a new person of public law or rationalise it by reducing costs, is simply not true. The core tasks of this public fund will be to manage state property in a planned and unified manner and uniform standards for meeting spatial needs will need to be established. In this part it is a clear task of this fund. These standards and criteria will be confirmed uniformly for all in the RS Government. There will be no independent decision-making in this fund, but this will be linked to a plan of rents, purchases, constructions to be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. Only tasks of a technical nature will be carried out professionally, taking into account the Real Property Act on the basis of methods that will increase the value of State assets and actually maintain the value of only that. But what is important is that all of this will be a warning in one place. In terms of austerity measures, I propose that Members and Members support this institutional change, which is aimed at reducing costs for the work of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you again very much for your word. Mr Vice President, Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 23rd session, on 7 October 2010, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee also considered the draft law on the Public Property Fund of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The members and members of the committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and an explanation from the Ministry of Public Administration on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments of the coalition and the amendment of the SDS Group were also tabled for consideration in the home labour body. In a complementary explanation of the bill, the representative of the Minister of Public Administration, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, said that the treatment of the State's real estate was currently highly decentralised, as it deals with about 500 managers, which in practice has a number of weaknesses. The bill provides for centralisation in this area by managing a single operator, the Public Property Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, with much of the property owned by the country. The main reason for the establishment of the public fund is the need for planned and uniform management of the property of the country, which will be transferred either to ownership or to the management of the public fund with as little costs as possible and on the basis of methods that will enable the most favourable results for its operation. The reasons for this are the need for a faster and more effective resolution of the spatial problem of public authorities by channelling resources into priority projects, ensuring legal and real estate management and their entry into official records and central real estate records, decommissioning of the Government and other government authorities and certain indirect budgetary users of real estate management, a single and coordinated action with the potential of real estate on the market, a gradual reduction of management costs and good practice of those European countries which have an established way of dealing with real estate through a specialised person acting as a titler of property rights. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that, in his opinion in the introduction, the PSC noted that the applicant's adoption of this proposal linked the adoption of the Law to the adoption of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. In this regard, the ZPS pointed out the duplication of standards in both laws and the possibility of this matter being regulated in one law. In the context of the comments to the individual article, the ZPS pointed out in some articles the need for additional explanations, to which the Ministry of Public Administration responded with its written explanations. However, the main part of the ZPS comments is also taken into account in the proposed amendments to the coalition. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which did not support the proposal. The Commission of the Council of State considered that there were no valid reasons for requiring the transfer of ownership rights to the public fund, since the objectives of the proposal could be achieved without this measure. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 7, 9, 11, 14, 19, 20, 31 and 37 and amendments to Article 6 of the SDS Group of Members of Parliament. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 20 has become irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you again very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on the public real estate fund, which we have before us in second reading, provides the basis for the establishment of the centralised Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the management of state property. This is a law which, in the opinion of our Group of Members, is at first sight attractive, but only the essence of the law must be examined. The public fund is expected to relieve all those business managers of real estate management, whose real estate will be transferred to their own management of the public fund. The establishment of real estate records and their legal and factual arrangements should ensure greater transparency in the future of the management of immovable property. In the SDS Group, we believe that the credibility of such guarantees should be addressed in the light of the government's previous assurances and decisions in other areas where practice shows a severe deviation from the declared objectives. At the beginning of the operation of the public fund, a large-scale transfer of property ownership owned by the Republic of Slovenia to the public fund will take place. Taking into account the proposed amendments to the Land Book Act, administrators for land register entries will become notaries. This will bring considerable costs to taxpayers' money and large profits to notaries in the event of such a large change in ownership. The parties forming the current coalition have written in their coalition programme the following: we will make the necessary changes in the management of the state's movable and immovable property, taking into account the full cost of the performance of the individual public service or public procurement, and improve the organisation of real estate management. If I look at this in the light of the current operation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the availability of immovable property, there is a huge gap between words and actions. In the first quarter of this year, we saw a lot of information in the media about the sale of properties by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let us remember the sale of the building of the Ljubljana City Children's Hospital for an unreasonablely low price. During this period, we have also dealt with the issue of rents that the Government and its services and other state authorities pay for rented premises. For the new premises of the National Investigation Office, the country will pay rent at the annual level or pay a EUR 1.6 million leasing for a family friend of the Minister. At the same time, he intends to sell the city’s children’s hospital far below the real price. To rent and the cost of managing the building in the new premises of the Commission to prevent corruption, the Commission had previously been in state premises, i.e. without rent, amounting to EUR 37 000 per month for 24 employees of officials and public servants or EUR 440 000 per year. The owners of these premises can, therefore, with great ease, purchase state-owned premises with a one-year lease from the State. In the SDS Group, we believe that in view of the Government's dealings with this fund so far, it promises that it will buy thousands of apartments, which is nothing more than the rescue of the speculators of imported construction companies and bank tycoons. There is also no guarantee that this new public fund will not operate under the political directives in favour of large capital and tycoons. The establishment of new and new funds and similar institutions does not only mean higher costs for government, but the ruling coalition puts its people in leading and influential positions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, within the framework of the country's real estate management, we support solutions that ensure such an organisation that enables efficient management of funds. However, we are opposed to the non-critical solutions by which new agencies and funds are being set up, which is already the rule in this mandate. This is not the right way or the right solution at a time when anti-crisis measures should be taken and when the Government and the Ministry of Public Administration are talking about savings in the public sector. Therefore, the proposed solutions with which the new fund is being established will be opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary! Let me start by reminding you that already in the Slovenian exit strategy for 2010–2013, the government has announced the establishment of a public fund for the management of the state's immovable property. It shall establish records, ensure legal and factual regulation, transparency of revenue over expenditure related to the management of this property and its maximum utilisation. Above all, the aim and task of the Fund is to tackle the spatial problems of the state authorities more effectively and more quickly. There are many reasons for establishing a real estate fund. Let me just list some: the need for planned and unified real estate management, the need for a faster and more efficient resolution of the spatial problem of public authorities, the burden of government, government services, ministries and many administrative units. After the new registration, the real estate will be made through the central real estate records, thereby ensuring the legal and real estate arrangements. It should be pointed out that the Fund will relieve the managers of the real estate management tasks so far. Their assets will be transferred to the ownership and management of the public fund. In doing so, it should be noted that the operators so far will then be able to fully focus on their primary activities. Therefore, clear, professional and more transparent treatment of immovable property, whose main objective is, above all, more cost-effective behaviour, will be ensured. In the Parliamentary Group Really – we will support the law in a new policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! As already stated in the presentation of an opinion on the previous law, we support the idea of establishing a system that would guide the uniform conduct of all authorities in the area of real estate management. Let me repeat, in Slovenia we have more than 500 real estate managers of the Republic of Slovenia, which in fact makes it impossible for a harmonised, economic and economic optimum real estate policy. They are urgent: the establishment of real estate records, the provision of its legal and actual arrangements, the transparency of revenue over expenditure related to the management of this property, its optimal exploitation, faster and more efficient resolution of the spatial problem of the public authorities. In spite of this principled agreement with the idea and theoretical advantages that such integration and management can offer, we remain skeptical and untrustworthy in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Too many questions remain: Will the creation of a new public fund legal person not only cause additional financial implications for the state budget? Will the number of public officials not increase too much despite the transfer provided from public administration departments? And I could even list it. It's one thing to say, practice shows you're doing another. Either way, at the end of the day, no one's answering anything. In the Slovenian People's Party, as we say, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister! The draft law sets out the way in which the establishment, the purpose of the establishment and the fundamental principles based primarily on the sound management of immovable property owned by the public fund. The applicant notes that the management of existing regulations and dispersed real estate managers has not been sufficiently cost-effective and does not follow the rationalisation of the objectives set. This was also the reason why a real estate fund should be set up to ensure uniform management and optimal economic exploitation. The proposal is also based on a faster solution to the spatial problem of public authorities and channelling resources into priority projects. The findings and proposals certainly make sense, since, as the proposaler points out, dispersion does not provide an opportunity to inspect and control assets, since there are 500 managers. It is also noted that asset managers did not register these assets in the central register, which proved to be opaque and, consequently, as an unnecessary burden to sell, rent and thus acquire certain assets, which has not been used in the present way. The proposer shall ensure that the system, as provided by the amendment of the law, will be more transparent for Members, as an added value will be shown from the annual accounts, which will also be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the planned rent. The proposal is based on the optimization and reduction of public administration costs. Employment is not supposed to increase. The best cost structure for the use of premises that the administration and other state authorities need for their work would be pursued. Everything's fine and fine up here. However, as can be seen from the record of the Commission of the State Council, matters are premature and there are no valid reasons for the necessity of transferring property rights to the public fund, as it would be possible to achieve the same objective without this measure. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we are not convinced that there is no impact on the additional financial burden of the budget. Nor does it convince us that employment will not increase, as we know from the practice we know that every boss is looking for an extra round of his fellow workers. And so the number increases rapidly to some 10 well-paid jobs. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are convinced that this is just one of many proposals from the Government, which is driven only by political interest, so we will not support the bill in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Another transition story, the story of government property management finally gets its epilogue. Every year, when we discussed the decree in the National Assembly, we basically opened a bottle with lots of fog and invisible ones, today they were called tycoons, tycoons. Therefore, at the 16th meeting of the National Assembly in April this year in the SD Group of Members, we were very pleased to support the Government's announcement that it is preparing a new concept of centralisation of real estate management. That is why today, when we have a proposal for a law before us, we also support it. We support in particular because we believe that it is essential to eliminate unplanned and unanimity property management of the country. It was high time to provide a central record of all state-owned properties and thus to establish the actual review and, more importantly, the actual value of this property. On the other hand, the Government and a number of other authorities of the state administration and a number of indirect budgetary users will be burdened by the management of these real estates. This will result in a gradual reduction in unit and management costs and an economically viable rate on the real estate market for the resale, rental and purchase of these properties. And what is particularly important is that spatial standards will be uniform for the needs of the different users with which the Fund will contract. There will also be a need for a faster and more effective solution to the spatial problem of public authorities. The public fund will also become the owner of real estate, which will also be entered into the land book on the day of the establishment of the public fund owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Article 39 of the Act also states exactly which properties will come into the property of a public institution and which properties will not and will only be in the management of the institution because of their specificities. In the SD Group, there are differing opinions on the effectiveness of implementation, in our view, in the most demanding article. But we have united ourselves in the view that only the implementation of the law will show and reveal the actual state and possibilities of implementation, which will also lead to the need for a new law later on in this work. In the SD Group, we believe that the main reasons for the establishment of the public fund are put in place through this law. This is the necessity of a planned and uniform management of the property of a country that will be transferred either to ownership of a public fund with as little cost as possible and economic activity. Most importantly, legal and real estate arrangements and their entry into official records and central real estate records will also be ensured. That's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS are 19. Ten. The amendments to Article 11 of the amended law have been withdrawn in 2010, and I therefore conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Indemnification of Victims of Criminal Acts. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Whoever commits a crime must pay his debt, his debt to society and to an individual who may have been harmed by a crime. That is why, among other things, we have the Offences for Victims of Crime Act, which has been adopted in our legal order primarily because of the implementation of the Council Directive. However, the purpose of this Directive is to enforce the right to fair and adequate compensation for damage in the event of violent crimes in so-called cross-border cases. However, in the current practice of implementing the law, it has been shown that such cross-border cases have not occurred in RS so far. The compensation was imposed solely by domestic injured persons and these unforeseen consequences in terms of the application of the law have in fact also led to the unexpected development of the application of this law and therefore this situation requires appropriate amendments and additions. These relate to the material conditions themselves for the enforcement of such compensations, to a more precise determination of the legal basis for individual types of damage, including their level. In this way, we want the citizens of RS to be placed in an equivalent, comparable position with other EU citizens with regard to the enforcement of damages under this law. This comparable situation is particularly appropriate in cases where the individual’s entitlement to compensation for a violent crime is difficult to reach. This shall be taken into account in particular when the perpetrator of the offence does not have sufficient resources to recover the damage, or if the perpetrator cannot be identified or prosecuted. The main news is that a more consistent State compensation scheme has been established, including amended material conditions and precise legal grounds for determining damages in order to prevent claims for compensation from being lodged in tangible cases, such as insolvent beatings and the like. In such cases, the applicant shall not meet the criteria for determining the compensation and therefore shall not be granted that right. More importantly, this novelty in this law leads to a better position for vulnerable social groups. These are especially children, disabled persons, and all the victims of domestic violence. We will make it easier for them to access compensations because they will be able to apply these claims directly from the country. Then the State will be the one to ensure that an appropriate request is made in relation to the perpetrator of the crime. It is also new to establish the obligation to enforce a property claim by the beneficiary when the perpetrator of the crime is known. It is also important to note that the proposal for a law will also allow the enforcement of damages to all persons who have been granted compensation in court proceedings, and the perpetrator of the judgment has not been able to comply. As a novelty, I can also define the reimbursement of costs due to the imposition of compensation, in particular with regard to the health services necessary for the enforcement of compensation under this Act. For example, amendments to and additions to material conditions, including procedural provisions relating to the content of the claim for compensation and the time limit for making such a request. This deadline is set. In particular, it shall be taken into account in cases where the perpetrator is unable to comply with the judgment of compensation. In this regard, the law also lays down which documents must be annexed to the request. In particular, the question of the functioning of the Commission, which is required to provide for a decision on the award of compensation, in the case of a child, shall be addressed to the competent centre for social work and shall ensure that this compensation is used for the benefit of the child. At the same time, the center is aware of what is happening in such a family. This is the main news in the marriage. I suggest you support this law further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! At its 23rd session, on 7 October 2010, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crime, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee was also informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law. Ms Andreja Lang, Director-General of Law at the Ministry of Justice, said in her supplementary explanation of the articles that the Law on Compensation to Victims of Crime provided opportunities to enforce the right to fair and adequate compensation for damage in the case of violent crimes in so-called cross-border cases where victims of crimes would not be able to obtain compensation from the perpetrator, because it was without sufficient resources, could not be identified or prosecuted. In such a case, the compensation shall be paid to the victim by the State defence on the basis of a decision of the competent commission. There have also been no cross-border cases so far. Therefore, the draft law strengthens access to state compensation by tightening the conditions for its enforcement and by laying down more precisely the legal basis for the damage recognised and the amount of the compensation. At the same time, vulnerable social groups, victims of domestic violence, children and persons with disabilities are allowed easier access to compensation by changing material conditions. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, at the time of presentation of their written opinion, drew up comments on Articles 1 and 2 relating to a violent act. The modified meaning of this act means a substantive change. By suspending the reference to criminal signs under the Penal Code, they believe that there is ambiguity in which compensation can be applied, while at the same time lowering the evidentiary standard is likely to derogate from the principle of material truth. The representative of the applicant explained that the compensation procedure had been completed before the end of the criminal procedure and therefore, by lowering the evidentiary standard, the conditions for the imposition of the criminal procedure were followed. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 14, 15 and 19 but did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 2, 4 and 6. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary and Secretary of State! The amendments and additions to the Crime Victims Compensation Act follow the objectives of the Council of Europe Directive on compensation for victims of crime. This Directive provides victims of crime in the European Union with the effective exercise of their rights to fair and adequate compensation for injuries suffered irrespective of where the offence was committed in the European Union. Let me just list some of the news that's brought by the law. More specifically, the material conditions for the recognition of compensation are laid down in particular as regards the evidentiary standard to be met that the person is entitled to compensation. He also added the condition that the victim proves that he is unlikely to receive compensation from the perpetrator. As a result, there is also a legal presumption that a particular suspect or perpetrator will not be able to pay the victim compensation. The presumption of indemnity lays down cases on the basis of which it is already clear from the law when the perpetrator will not be able to fulfil his indemnity obligation. In the Really Group – a new policy, we believe that victims of domestic violence, children and persons with disabilities should be given access to compensation as easily as possible. We are therefore pleased that the law gives these groups the opportunity to claim direct compensation from the State. This amount will then be claimed from the perpetrator himself. Let me finish. The law thus strengthens access to state compensation and, on the other hand, to particularly vulnerable groups by changing the material conditions for the award of personal property compensation and to victims of crimes in the family, allowing easier access to compensation. For all of this, we will really support the law in the Group of Members – a new policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The Council of Europe Directive on compensation for victims of crime was adopted in April 2004. The Republic of Slovenia implemented the Directive in the Slovenian legal order by adopting the Act on the Compensation of Victims of Crime in 2005. The basic purpose of the directive was to provide for the possibility of exercising the right to fair and adequate compensation for damage in the event of violent crimes, i.e. in so-called cross-border cases. In such cases, individual Member States should provide compensation schemes where the victims of the crime cannot obtain compensation from the perpetrator, because the offender is without sufficient resources or because the perpetrator cannot be identified or prosecuted or the identification of all of the offences is made difficult because the victim and the perpetrator are not from the same country. However, the practice of implementing the law should show that there were no such cross-border cases. Since the established compensation scheme is also accessible to victims of criminal offences who are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and reside in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, only such domestic victims have claimed compensation. Unforeseeable consequences in terms of the use of the ZO, only for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should require appropriate changes and additions. The regulation in force is intended to be too broad or too loose and it is therefore one of the fundamental purposes of tightening the conditions for the enforcement of such damages and, on the other hand, to allow particularly vulnerable social groups and victims of the crime within the family to have easier access to compensation. Due to this ambiguity and some serious concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service on the appropriateness of the resolution of the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support and abstain from the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u130	Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law was adopted five years ago to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European legislation on the basis of the Council Directive on compensation for victims of crime, which aims to ensure the free movement of people between EU Member States. The purpose of the provision of the law under this Directive is to provide compensation by the State in whose territory the offence has been committed, i.e. Slovenia, for those cases where the nature of the cross-border nature of the compensation has been made difficult. In the practice of implementing the law, it has been shown that this law applies exclusively to the award of compensation to Slovenian citizens, since the Commission responsible for the recognition of damages has not made a decision since the application of the law in any case where a citizen of another EU Member State would apply compensation for an alleged crime committed in the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of the novel is thus to compare the situation of domestic victims of crime with those of other EU Member States. The practice of implementing the law has also shown that the regulation of the issue dealt with by the law is too loose and too wide. The material conditions for obtaining compensation are not sufficiently detailed and the competent Commission must also refer to the application of judicial practice so that it can decide on the compensation at all. The basic objective of the law is thus to tighten the conditions for the enforcement of damages and to establish more precisely the legal basis for the enforcement of damages and the resulting amount of compensation. The criteria for granting compensation are amended to prevent claims for compensation from being lodged in so-called opportune cases. The substance of the novel is, on the one hand, the narrowing of access to state compensation and, on the other hand, the novel creates comparable rights for victims residing in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia whose compensation is difficult to reach. In this context, it is another novelty of the law that enables vulnerable groups of children, disabled persons and victims of domestic violence to have easier access to redress by the State. In the DeSUS Group, we will adopt amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u133	Once again, everyone, say good-bye! It is a matter of supplementing the existing law of 2005 with the EU Council Directive on compensation for victims of crimes who will be provided with legal protection and compensation, i.e. those who will be criminalized in a foreign country and who will be subject to the legal order in the same way as the nationals of the country where the crime took place. Therefore, it is a matter of providing for the possibility of indemnification in the event of violent acts in cross-border cases where victims will not be able to receive compensation from the perpetrator, since they are persons of different countries. In the case mentioned above, the victim will be compensated by the State's defence on the basis of the committee responsible, but as the applicant points out, so far there have been no foreign cross-border cases. Therefore, the proposal for a law strengthens access to state compensation. At the same time, victims of domestic violence, children and disabled persons are allowed easier access to compensation. The bill covers vulnerable social groups, sets the amount of compensation, prevents claims for damages from being lodged in affluent cases. In short, it follows the objectives of amending and supplementing the Crime Victims Compensation Act. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Well-known Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Hello, Secretary of State, and welcome to the Vice-President of the National Assembly! The Act on Indemnification of Victims of Crime in Slovenia is implementing the Council Directive on the Compensation of Victims of Crime. The basic purpose of the directive is to ensure that the right to fair and adequate compensation for damage in the case of violent crimes, so-called cross-border cases, can be exercised. To this end, Member States shall provide compensation schemes for such cases and shall be included in a system of cooperation between countries to facilitate access to compensation. In the current practice of law enforcement, such cross-border cases have not been found in the Republic of Slovenia. Only domestic victims claimed compensation. The main novelty of the bill is that vulnerable social groups, children, people with disabilities and victims of domestic violence are allowed easier access to compensation, which is more difficult to enforce because of their personal characteristics. The draft law also allows the enforcement of compensation under this law to those persons who have been awarded compensation in judicial proceedings but who have been unable to comply with the judgment. Reimbursement of damage to the destruction of goods shall be limited only in cases where the damage is caused by medical devices, if the person is not entitled to them under the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia governing health care and health insurance. The law is in line with the directive on reimbursement of compensation costs. Procedural provisions are also complemented with regard to changes and additions to material conditions. A new deadline is set for the lodging of an application for compensation if the perpetrator is unable to comply with the judgment of compensation and for the document to be submitted to the case. The Commission is obliged to forward the decision on the award of compensation to the child to the competent centre for social work, which shall ensure that the compensation is used for the benefit of the child, while at the same time informing the Centre of this and of the developments in a family. Since in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that the bill brings positive news to the legal order and in some ways also provides greater security for the injured, we will also support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary! With the proposed amendment of the law, the Council of the European Union Directive on compensation for victims of crime is incorporated into the Slovenian legal order. The European Union wishes to provide compensation to victims of crimes in so-called cross-border cases where the damage caused by a crime in a foreign country is suffered mainly by tourists, visitors to various events, businessmen and the like, which do not occur in their country of residence. However, according to the offence committed, victims generally return to their country and have to apply compensation elsewhere. The new law therefore aims at enabling vulnerable social groups, victims of domestic violence, children, persons with disabilities and the elderly, in particular, to have easier access to compensation for criminal offences committed under the circumstances. In order to establish a compensation scheme whereby the Commission may decide on the applications submitted by victims of crime, in order to prevent, at the same time, the lodging of claims for compensation in opportune cases which do not meet the criteria for the award of compensation and in cases where the compensation scheme is not envisaged for victims of crime. We believe that the solutions proposed will help to address the issue of compensation in so-called cross-border cases, although our authorities have so far not seen cases where such compensation would be required in Slovenia. In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that the Commission's four and a half years of operation has brought some knowledge of the appropriateness and shortcomings of the existing law and that the proposed solutions will contribute to a better and more effective work of the Commission, as well as to greater rights for victims of crime. That is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a new law on compensation for victims of crimes. The Act on Compensation for Victims of Crime, adopted in 2005, provided for the right to compensation for victims of violent acts and their relatives. It also established a procedure for the exercise of these rights and identified the bodies that decide and participate in the decision-making process on those rights. The Act transposed the content of the Council of the European Union Directive on compensation for victims of crimes into the Slovenian legal order. The Member States of the European Union have thus had to ensure that the victim has the possibility, if the offence has been committed in her territory, to seek compensation from the competent authority in the country where he has his permanent residence. The proposed amendment to the Act on Compensation to Victims of Crime states that one of the fundamental purposes is to tighten the conditions for the enforcement of such damages and, on the other hand, to specify more precisely the legal basis for damages recognised both by compensation and by their level. The amendment to the Act provides for the full application of the compensation scheme only for those victims who need to facilitate access to compensation, which should otherwise be imposed abroad, against a national of a foreign country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, however, we oppose certain non-critical solutions, such as the fact that the amendment violates certain rights, such as the exclusion of compensation for bodily harm, which temporarily affect or impair health. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we welcome all the solutions followed by the principle of social state, the principle of fair monetary compensation, equal treatment of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and citizens of other Member States of the European Union, the principle of the protection of the child under Article 56 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter would point out that, by modifying the material conditions for the award of compensation for personal characteristics and victims of a crime, the violence within the family provided for in Article 191 of the Penal Code makes it easier to access compensation. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed, in the context of the second hearing on the home working body, on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice with the amendment, the deletion of a solution that introduces a standard in the exercise of rights, which constitutes a derogation from the principle of substantive truth and provides that all the facts relevant to the legal and correct decision must be established in the process, which represents a higher standard than the one proposed by the Government. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In our view, the current regulation of the procedure under this law should not derogate from the fundamental principles of the general administrative procedure which provide procedural and substantive legal protection. We will support the proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, stressing that the proposed derogation from the principle of material truth will require the active monitoring of the implementation of the law and the correction of solutions that may later be demonstrated by practice that they have not proved appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to 21. Agenda item – First of all, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on remedies. The draft law was tabled by a group of twenty-seven Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-seven Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of Ms Alenka Jeraj's bill for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I'm a good-bye! The draft law, which we have tabled Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the legislative process, follows the decision of the 55th urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice of 9 July 2008, which provided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepares such a change in legislation that will prevent the direct transition of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, a so-called competitive clause as it is regulated in certain other areas. The Law thus stipulates that anyone who has served as a judge or a state prosecutor in the past four years cannot be a lawyer. The proposals for solutions to the legal amendment in question concern the restriction of legal activity in legal cases not only in relation to representation but also in relation to the legal advice and defence of parties before courts and other state bodies and the prevention of the direct transfer of judges and state prosecutors between lawyers. The proposal for a legislative novel also proposes a change in terminology, as reintroduced by the 2009 amendment by Justice Minister Zalar, and we still use it as an expression of "internal affairs bodies". This term in law and in law changes according to what is in the Police Act, the term "police" instead of "internal affairs bodies". The most important reason for the inevitability of the amendments proposed in the amendment is the fact that, without a certain restriction on access to a legal profession for former judges and state prosecutors, it is impossible to effectively exercise the individual's right to a fair trial, as defined in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the right to a fair trial. Of course, it is not only that the trial is actually fair, but also that everyone who is in such a process must have the sense that the trial is truly fair. Our common task and concern as a legislative body is not only to ensure a fair trial but also to exclude all elements that could raise doubts about the fairness of the trial. This position was specifically stressed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its decision of 25 May 2006. It follows from the explanation of that decision that, in exercising the right to an impartial trial, it must also be reflected outside. It is the so-called appearance of impartiality of the trial. It is therefore important for the Court to create or maintain the appearance of impartiality in its case-by-case representation. Otherwise, the public’s confidence in the impartiality of the courts in general as well as the confidence of the parties in the impartiality of the trial in a particular case may be compromised. In cases where a former judge or the prosecutor of a court or another court is acting as a lawyer, the judge’s position may raise a question of the appearance of impartiality if the lawyer is his former resident colleague or former associate. The proposed restriction on access to legal activity is infringed by Article 49 of the Constitution, which defines freedom of work and is exercised in accordance with Article 15 directly on the basis of the Constitution. However, under the third paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, restrictions are permissible for the protection of the rights of others, resulting from Article 23 of the Constitution, which ensures, inter alia, that rights, duties and charges against everyone are decided by an impartial court. It is inevitable that due to legal protection and the right to a fair trial it is necessary to ensure the right to a fair trial not only of appearance, but of the actual sense of fairness of the trial, so we propose a new law on legal counsel and propose that you support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u143	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members, welcome! You have before you a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Lawyery, which was sent to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The bill introduces two novelties. The first is that, in the cases referred to in Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Law on Lawyers, the lawyer should reject not only representation but also legal counseling and defence. However, another novelty is that an additional condition should be laid down to obtain the right to pursue a legal profession, according to which a person who has served as a judge or a state prosecutor would not fulfil the conditions for obtaining that right for four years from the end of that term. The same should also apply to legal candidates. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed additional determination of the duty to refuse legal activity in the work relating to the defence of parties before the courts and other public authorities is unnecessary, since this prohibition or this duty is already covered by the current regulation. This is a specific form of representation, which is already prohibited in such cases, and therefore the prohibition of representation, including the prohibition of defending the party before the courts and other State authorities, already includes the said restriction. This is also based on the systemics of the entire Article 5 of the Law on Lawyers, which uses the concept of representation as a broader term, including advocacy. However, we believe that the proposed additional determination of the duty to reject legal counseling, i.e. legal counseling activities, may be appropriate, as lawyers can also offer legal advice as a type of legal service completely separate from representation. With regard to the second proposed novelty, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the proposed restriction on the direct passage of judges and state prosecutors between lawyers. This is also the central content set of the proposed novel. In our view, this is a disproportionate intervention in Article 49 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines freedom to work and whose limitations are permissible only for the protection of other rights. The proposed amendment to the constitutional provision on freedom of work justifies that it protects the right to judicial protection provided for in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but the Government considers that the applicant does not demonstrate either the necessity or the appropriateness or proportionality of that intervention. In addition, the proposed four-year period following the termination of a post, during which former judges and state prosecutors could not obtain the right to pursue a legal profession, may also require the determination of the financial advantage of the State by which these persons would be adequately compensated. However, the determination of such a distinction would once again trigger a series of dilemmas related mainly to its public financial and ethical acceptability. Given that the requirement of impartiality and independence set out in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia applies to judges, the restrictions on crossings, if any, should apply to a larger degree in the opposite direction, since, in particular, the transition to the function of a judge could create a form of bias. For all of this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not agree with the content of Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed law. Article 1 is, however, partly acceptable, but this raises the question of the meaning of the novel, which would contain only one article in addition to the transitional and final provisions, which is not even necessary in substance. Finally, the Council of Justice and the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia also gave a negative opinion on the proposed law. However, the Supreme Court did not make specific comments to the proposal for a law, but it noted that the Constitutional Court had already defined the limits on the transfer of judges between lawyers to the substantive level, but even the minor legal restrictions on the transfer of judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Lawmakers note that in practice there are more and more cases of the transition of judges or state prosecutors between lawyers, which in some cases raises doubts about the fairness and impartiality of the trial. The bill therefore proposes that the direct transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers should be prevented, thereby eliminating the risk of an effective exercise of the individual's right to a fair trial. It is not only about whether the trial is actually fair, but also about the fact that everyone in the trial must have the sense that the trial is truly fair. In cases where a former judge or the prosecutor of a court or another court is acting as a lawyer, the judge’s position may raise a question of the appearance of impartiality if the lawyer is a former resident colleague. In recent times, such informal networks and links could be fully agreed upon. However, it is also likely that the proposed solution is a substantial intervention in the right to freedom of work guaranteed under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its restriction is permissible only for the protection of the rights of others. This restriction is also permissible only if it complies with the principle of proportionality. On the other hand, the duty to ensure the right to a fair trial applies mainly to judges and not to lawyers, and this may also be the case. Despite various aspects, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Hello again! Again, we have before us a text which aims to amend the Law on Lawyers in the sense of a new regulation regarding the transition of judges and prosecutors between the legal professions. Why I would point out, again, because this is also a text that was not first introduced into the legislative procedure by the same proposer. Indeed, on our tables today is the third time — the first time since the end of the previous term — that is when the legislative process of this proposal was completed due to the end of the term of office of the National Assembly, the second time in the autumn of last year and now we have it here for the third time. The basic idea of this proposal, which is to prevent the direct passage of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, has already been the subject of hot debates in these premises, and the reason for such a measure has been the case with Penk. For a little while. The proposer proposes to prohibit the performance of work to those who wish to leave the court and to go to the lawyers by also prohibiting their right to counsel. The position of DeSUS Members is clear on this. Members of the DeSUS do not support such a proposal, which we consider to be extremely radical. Indeed, the incompatibilities of the performance of functions are already adequately regulated in existing legislation – both for lawyers, prosecutors and judges. Of course, we agree that the State must have a judicial system that ensures fair trial, impartiality and independence of judges and respect for constitutional rights, but such a solution as is proposed that is essential to the system of both the judiciary and the judiciary will certainly not help to achieve the objectives of the proposal. As an additional argument for not supporting this proposal on our part, we also see in the insufficiently substantial and reasonable arguments presented in the explanation, which would convince us otherwise. Therefore, we believe that the proposed restriction on the transition to legal types is not designed in a comprehensive manner and will not satisfy the purpose pursued by the applicant. It is interesting to point out that the applicant does not consider the switchover inappropriate, i.e. the transition of lawyers to a number of judges, which is an additional reason which raises doubts as to the appropriateness of the proposed regime. In short, we do not support the proposed non-constitutional restrictions on freedom of work, since it is neither necessary to protect the rights of others nor does it comply with the principle of proportionality or the necessity of such action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u149	Good-bye to all of you again! In May 2009, the Law on Lawyers was passed, but apparently proved to be flawed, although it was confirmed by the majority in the National Assembly, but it did not convince the members of the opposition at that time that it was also in practice optimal for implementation. He must have been suitable for lawyers who were able to maintain a decision on tariffs, disciplinary infringements and the disciplinary procedure itself, which was given to the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. The applicant for the amendment in question notes that an increasing number of judges and prosecutors are taking a decision to leave the judicial line between lawyers, which certainly raises doubts as to the impartiality of the trials in which he is present as a lawyer and an ex-colleague. However, it is a powerful marketing move that draws because it gives hope to a party in a procedure that may be blinded, that it is an advantage for a trial in its favor. The proposed provision aims to ensure the right to a fair trial, but it must not raise any doubt that the trial is not fair. The legislator is obliged to ensure that the feelings of doubt are excluded, which, in the case of a misdemeanour of judges, cannot be guaranteed overnight into a number of lawyers. In 2008, the Internal Policy Committee proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend legislation that would prevent the direct transition of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, but that argument was not convincing enough. The Law on Lawyers provides that a lawyer must refuse representation if he represents a counterparty in the same case, if he represents a client who works in the same lawyer's office, or if he has worked as a judge or prosecutor in the same case, but, as the applicant points out, the law of that restriction only applies to representation. It should also include restrictions which are necessary in particular to prevent conflicts of interest between entities. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Hello again! The Group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyery. First time. In our view, the proposed additional determination of the duty to refuse legal activity in the work relating to the defence of parties before the courts and other public authorities is unnecessary, since this duty is already covered by the regulation in force. The proposed restriction on the passage of former judges and state prosecutors between lawyers constitutes an intervention in Article 49 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed intervention in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is disproportionate in our view, since it has not been sufficiently demonstrated that the objectives of a fair trial can justify the proposed intervention into the right under the Constitution of Slovenia. Third time. The proposed four-year period following the termination of a post, during which former judges and state prosecutors could not obtain the right to pursue a legal profession, may require the establishment of a financial distinction by the State by which these persons would be adequately compensated. However, the determination of such distinction would also trigger a type of dilemma. In particular, in view of the fact that the requirement of impartiality and independence referred to in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia applies to judges, the restriction of crossings, if any, should apply in reverse terms, since, in particular, the transition to the function of a judge may create the appearance of partiality of the court. Because of everything mentioned in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will not support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State! It is right to point out that this time in the National Assembly, for the second time in one year, we are dealing with the content of, in fact, almost literally the same proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on Lawyerry. It is interesting that in doing so the applicants are the same – both did so by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members – and the content is in fact the same. The aim of this content is to prohibit the transition from the function of a judge or a state prosecutor to a position of lawyer — only after a certain age. The first proposal put forward three years as a condition, the current proposal, which we are discussing today, has exacerbated this condition and requires a four-year period where it is not possible to move from being a judge or a state prosecutor to being a lawyer. In all other cases, there are similar or very similar proposals to distinguish the activity of a lawyer from the possibility of participating in a judicial function, which is already impossible and prohibited by law, and which should specifically distinguish as a lawyer's activity from cooperation, but not only advocacy or representation, which is possible, but not particularly important. The proposal is acceptable, as it would mean harmonising with existing legislation, that the word relationship "authorised official of internal affairs bodies" is recorded as "police" – in other laws it is so regulated. The question is whether it is only for this reason that the law is right and necessary to change. The actual content of the bill is therefore not a change in the name or personal activity of counseling, but an inability to switch from being a judge or a state prosecutor to being a lawyer. Why, it is not clear, because it is certainly not related to the possibility of an independent trial, since an independent trial is reflected and expressed at a time when someone is a judge, but not at a time when he becomes a lawyer and does a completely different job. It can therefore be understood that this can only be a restriction on the profession. However, with regard to the restriction on the exercise of a profession both in a judicial society and in similar cases in the Constitutional Court, they consider that such a decision on the inability to carry out a profession before certain years, in which case four, could be constitutionally contested. All of these are the reasons why the Group of Social Democrats agrees with the opinion of the Council of Justice and the opinion of the Government that essential substantive proposals are not acceptable and that they could also constitute a violation of the Constitution on the freedom to carry out legal activities and that we will not support the law as a result of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. We are therefore meeting again in this mandate with the amendment of the Law on Lawyery, which we have tabled in the legislative procedure of the Slovenian Democratic Party Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. These are proposals for solutions relating to the restriction of legal activity in legally defined cases. The solutions proposed are in relation to the representation of the parties, the legal advice and the defence of the parties before the courts and other national authorities. Certainly, however, one of the most important solutions within this law — and many times my predecessors have mentioned — is to prevent the direct passage of judges and state prosecutors, overnight, between lawyers; in particular, given the fact that we have witnessed some rebuttal cases in the past, for example, when the prosecutor became a lawyer overnight and then, in fact, began to represent the one who had previously dealt with in the context of his prosecutorial work. Here, of course, are the most famous examples of Penko and Mr Zidar's case. We cannot go beyond the recently published information about a lawyer who was also once a state prosecutor and also the head of the economic department, whose investigative judge did not order the detention, since the prosecution is not well enough to justify the reasons for determining the detention, which may also indicate that there is a link or conflict of interest between those lawyers who were formerly prosecutors. Therefore, this needs to be changed legally. Thus, the proposal for a novel law on legal counsel provides that anyone who has served as a judge or a state prosecutor in the past four years cannot become a lawyer overnight. The most important reason for the inevitability of the proposed amendments is the fact that, without a certain restriction, there is a risk of an ineffective exercise of the individual's right to a fair trial in the exercise of a lawyer's profession for former judges and state prosecutors. This is, as you know, set out in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this is not only about the fact that the trial is actually fair, but about the fact that everyone in the trial must have the sense that the trial was truly fair and fair. The task of the National Assembly, as legislator, is not only to ensure a fair trial by law but also to rule out all elements which could in any way raise doubts about the fairness of the trial. This view was also highlighted by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its decision of 25 May 2006. The 42nd recital of this decision, in which the Constitutional Court referred to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, highlights the following point. According to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, the existence of an impartial trial is determined by such a subjective criterion as to determine the personal conviction of the judge, which sets out in a particular case, as well as the objective criterion for assessing whether the judge in the proceedings ensured the exercise of procedural guarantees by excluding any question of his impartiality. In exercising the right to an impartial trial, this must also be reflected outwardly. It is the so-called appearance of impartiality of the trial. It is therefore important for the court to create or maintain the appearance of impartiality when dealing with a specific case. Otherwise, the public’s confidence in the impartiality of the courts in general as well as the confidence of the parties in the impartiality of the trial in a particular case may be compromised. In cases where a former judge or prosecutor has been brought before a court as a lawyer, I have already mentioned the Penko case, one or the other court, the position of the judge who is a judge may clearly raise the question of the appearance of impartiality if the lawyer is a former resident colleague or a former associate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that it is necessary to guarantee the right to a fair trial – not only of appearance, but of the actual sense of fairness of the trial. We will therefore support the proposed solutions to the amendment of the Law on Lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr Franci Kek will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. The draft law governs the situation where a lawyer in the same case represents a counterparty when the counterparty is represented by a lawyer who works in the same lawyer's office or works in a lawyer's office representing a counterparty, whether as a lawyer, a lawyer or an employee lawyer in that office. In the opinion of the applicant of the amendment to the law on the legal representation of the party, he should not have acted as a public prosecutor, an authorised official of the internal affairs authorities or an official of the legal proceedings. In all of these cases, those entities should reject not only representation but also legal advice and provision of parties before courts and other state authorities. The proposed novelty regarding the duty to reject the defence of the parties before the courts and the public authorities is unnecessary, as this is already regulated in the applicable legislation. The prohibition of representation already in force also includes a prohibition on the defence of parties before the courts and other public authorities. Further proposals in the law propose additional conditions for obtaining the right to pursue a legal profession, namely that a person wishing to become a lawyer should not serve as a judge or a state prosecutor in the last four years. In the Zares-New Group of Members, we believe that the applicant intervenes with this novelty in Article 49 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where the right to freedom of work is defined. This right shall, however, be exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution. Such a right, however, can only be limited to the core of the protection of the rights of others, while also respecting the principle of proportionality. This action is justified by the right to judicial protection, i.e. the right to an independent and impartial trial. And it is this right, the right to a fair trial, that applies primarily to judges. The lawyer must be impartial by the nature of the matter and must act for the benefit of the party representing him. He is also obliged, in accordance with the principles of professional ethics, to act with care, conscientiously and honestly in representing his party. As a result, we do not recognize the actual dangers pointed out by the applicants. In short, in the Group of Members, the arguments that the proponents justify and justify a serious intervention into the constitutional right to freedom of work have not convinced us, so we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Zanoškar, Györek, Urh, Jelinčič – none. Mr. Rezman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This law, which we now have in mind, stems from those who have proposed it, from the sub-theme that there is a strong mistrust in the rule of law, in the system, in the judgment that there is a lack of confidence in efficiency and so on. And, of course, we couldn't throw it all away. Surely there are a number of shortcomings that many have also experienced in political disputes between different parties who like to use cases to reinforce their right. But the fact that the proceedings are quite long, the fact that they have been created and the backlog of the trial has not yet been removed, that the trial is very often also ineffective, and in particular that some highly identifiable cases have not been properly sanctioned, reduces confidence in this system and therefore the proponents of their proposals have relied on this vague trust, which should be based on the fact that the judges do not judge independently and that the judges are those who should have greater independence and thus ensure impartiality and fairness in the trial. As far as their proposals are concerned, we understand both; one proposal is to restrict the activity of a lawyer at that time – this is in which cases – and to extend this, except for representation also to legal advice and advocacy before the public authorities or before the authorities in justice, which I understand and do not think is so special that it would not be worth considering and possibly even supporting. However, this is not what was particularly wanted with this proposal to be complemented and amended. What they wanted to achieve was the fact that some, as they say, transitions from one species to another have left confidence on the basis of citing: "always more such cases of transitions", which are not documented statistically or otherwise, that they could say that this is so much to be truly imagined, nor are they compared with other practices in other countries, that we might have concerns about the fact that this is a particular feature of us. So these arguments were not listed. Furthermore, the quotation below states that in some cases there is a suspicion of whether this transition can be corrected or not. From the fact that something like this can ever happen that we would not support, which we would not approve, it is impossible, in my judgment, to impose an absolute ban on all those who would like to move from one profession to another. First of all, not because one reason, or case, or two or three, or individual, cannot be sufficient proof that we should introduce some kind of Berufsverbot so that those who have done some work properly and honestly and want to change it and move into some other kind would have the forbidden. What's more questionable about this, at least for me, is why these passages are happening, why someone from the courts, from the prosecutions and other types is more likely to go to lawyers. This question, which seems more essential to me, has not yet been open to debate in this proposal. I think that we will do more if we prevent the possibility of moving from these kinds of things that we are talking about into types of lawyers just because there is more freedom of work, because there is more money there, because there is more money there and there are other advantages, so I think we need to return, but in a different way, solid confidence in justice and thus prevent what is happening to us now repeatedly: doubts as to whether the trial is right and fair. Well, I won't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr Barovic – he's not here. Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u161	See, the topic raised by this bill is an extremely important topic in today's Slovenian society. These are some competitive clauses in different professions, and today we are dealing here with the legal profession and the appearance or the transition to legal office. I think we all agree that there should be some limits, some restrictions, because such an unlimited transition actually leads to a conflict of interest. We probably agree on that. I will not say that the time dimensions of these limits are best written here, it is a matter of discussion that we will regulate this further in the process of enacting the law. But what happens in a society where there are no competitive clauses or do they not respect each other? You know, in the regulated countries, there are certain professions that have very strict competitive clauses, when you can start representing the same activity as another company, if I say so. In various areas, we have been summarized, but this is not respected. And so, in the legal profession, in the judicial profession, in the prosecution profession, there should be some distinction, because such a person is in conflict, in conflict of interest. And so it should be in other professions. It's understandable to me that you coalition types are not in favor of this. Today I read in the newspaper Delo a tribute to your director Toplek of the Talum. That reporter has reasons for writing a thank-you note, I know that. But thanks also for being the silent owner of the silent owner – here we should all have an individual contract and a certain competitive clause. But so far only the co-ownership of the director of the state-owned company in two companies operating with the state-owned company has been revealed. It does not say, as in other data, that he is also co-owner of the Factor Bank and so on – I receive notice that there are many others – and this journalist writes a tribute only for the company, state work. And I know on my own that he worked primarily for himself, especially for himself, all the time, when I was in the company for 20 years, and that a state-owned company under other leadership, or a country, would substantially keep more money and reinvest it. And there's a similar situation. We're moving. For this particular area, I do not say that this is the most optimal form, but it is clear – both from the judiciary and elsewhere – that you do not want a clear distinction. And also what is stated in Article 4 of the Law on Lawyers would require respect for whether, at the same time in one case, you can advise and represent the counterparty, and then immediately the other. These are non-transparent transactions, non-transparent matters, and therefore I believe, for principle reasons, that the solutions that are written here are fundamental. Whether they are dosed with pharmaceutical precision is a matter of further processing of the law and therefore needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj spoke as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Maybe a few more points I haven't been able to say in that first part. Our citizens and citizens are assessing the rule of law very low. In surveys when asked whether Slovenia is a legal state, they answer no. Most likely because their procedures also last for a long time in the courts. In addition, they estimate that lawyers who pay dearly are always a few steps ahead of the police, prosecutors and ultimately judges. That's why we pay expensive but often inefficient legal states, we pay long-term procedures, judges' salaries, material costs and so on. This, however, all belongs to the rule of law and it is normal for the public sector to be so financed, but we are at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy 9. Seven. 2008 adopted conclusions and allow me to read one of these: "The Committee for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare such a change in legislation that will prevent the direct passage of judges and prosecutors between lawyers [[Competitive clause]] as it is arranged in some other areas." And I ask the Government what it has done in this area at that time, because the decisions we take in the National Assembly, that is, as a legislator, should somehow be binding or some guidance, here is really just a proposal, but we expect the Government to take our proposals seriously. I'd like to know what you've done about it at this time. But if, because some of you are simply telling us that we proposed a similar law a year ago, perhaps you can tell us what you did from our first proposal a year ago when we introduced this law. To this day, there is no change, even though we are all aware that this is a problem and that things should be resolved. The government says in its opinion that we are interfering with the bill's proposal to protect the right to work, but there are no such problems when such work is limited to police. Indeed, 10,000 Slovenian police officers, also four years after they cease to serve as police officers, must not be employed in security or detective organisations. Then why are we restricting their right to work?Oh, my God! They have the right to work, like everyone else! Some of you asked us why we don't suggest that the lawyer can't become a judge. For the time being, there are no such cases, but we might want to discuss why. I've said something about this before. But there's probably a problem with the money and probably somewhere else. As legislators and as an executive, we should be interested in restoring the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law. In doing so, we can imitate the nations that we still like to set an example and sometimes copy some of them. The first time we proposed this in September last year, we mentioned these cases. My friend Rezman said we didn't make any cases. That's not true. In our proposal, if you read or explain the bill, we have made this clear. Swedish legislation says: 'Judges and prosecutors cannot become lawyers'. Never, not after four years, not even after how many years! Similarly, Germany: "The application for entry between lawyers must be rejected by the judge and the prosecutor." These are probably not just some countries we wouldn't be interested in. And why do such provisions in Sweden and Germany, for example? There is probably also a right to work that is not meant to be restricted to anyone, but is obviously a more important right of the citizen to a fair trial. They have such a rule and it is enforced that the judicial or judicial system is effective and that the rule of law is working; what we keep talking about is a problem. So much for not listing the arguments and not comparing them. Furthermore, it should be stressed that we are not talking about an absolute ban because our amendment to the law proposes that it should not be able to do so for four years, but then it can, because we estimate that it is still so far away from the files that it has previously dealt with and from the things that it has done before, that it may be less controversial after four years. Someone mentioned that we must trust that they have done what is right before and that they will now work as lawyers honestly. Normally, because we also trust cops to do what is right when they're cops, and maybe in a month when they become detectives! It's supposed to be a principle if they swear to do what's right. The case of Penko was mentioned today: until yesterday, the prosecutor in a special group, which also investigated the construction business, including this company and this director, who was then employed. In the night, he became a lawyer for this company. Until then, he had access to the files, maybe he got the documents; I'll say "morda," because I don't know, even though some documents were seized at the time of the arrest, on which he'll certainly be building the defense of this gentleman when the matter comes to trial if it comes at all. Perhaps that is why she has not yet experienced any epilogue and nothing has happened since we know that this company, the director and the owner, even the state and the prime minister themselves are helping to do business. It is obviously so important for this country that we all have to deal with it, despite the fact that EUR 800,000 has net wages, that is, on a working day of EUR 3 000 200, which means there is probably no problem in hiring any lawyer in this country, even better than a prosecutor who already knows the file on the other side of the bench and will be able to prepare a good defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you very much. You want a word? Please, Secretary of State, Mr. Shkrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that, in addition to what we have already said in the opening presentation, there is still more to be said about the proposal before you today. In the debates, it was often heard that the existing system somehow does not have a protector to prevent a person who was a prosecutor or judge yesterday from acting as a lawyer in the same way tomorrow. In this regard, it must be made very clear that the existing Law on Lawyering prohibits such a situation. Article 5 of its second paragraph states that a lawyer must refuse representation if in the same case there has been a judge, a state prosecutor or an authorised official of the Ministry of the Interior, meaning a policeman. Therefore, it is not the case that such situations are not entirely regulated in any way and that the current situation would require as radical an intervention as it is proposed. In fact, this means a four-year moratorium on the profession, which is probably one of the rare choices for those who were former judges or prosecutors. Why do people decide to go from the judicial and prosecution types to the lawyers? There's probably as many reasons as people. I can say, even from my own experience, that in the judiciary, people who are driven by a desire to earn money do not work, so I fully doubt that they do it because of their desire to earn money. It is more likely that the difference between lawyering and judicial work is both in the nature of the work and in the organisation of the work and in the sense of a personal challenge in this mission, which is certainly a judicial function. If we prevent persons who are judges and prosecutors and who for any reason no longer feel the desire or motivation or personal challenge in carrying out this challenging mission from leaving this work to another job, then I do not know if we are doing a service to the rule of law. I'm afraid it's the opposite. Otherwise, the argument that there have been many recent transfers of judges to the lawyers and prosecutors, I fear that it is not in line with what the data show. Perhaps this argument was in line with the situation in 2008, at which time we know that justice has been shaken by developments in connection with the wage reform, which was adopted into force, which was suspended twice at the Constitutional Court, which did not indicate that an agreement with the Government will be reached, and at that time the departures were more numerous than today's. If we look at the data only in 2008 and 2009, we will see that among those judges who left for other reasons as pensioners, this does not mean that they all became lawyers, there were 9 judges in 2008 and only 2 judges in 2009. Even if we were all and became lawyers, I doubt that this is the reason for the adoption of such fundamental restrictions as are proposed in the proposal for a novel. The comparative analysis prepared by the drafter shows that there is no such prohibition anywhere. The laws of the countries you mentioned, Sweden, Germany, Austria, speak about the fact that a judge must not become a lawyer, but let me remind you, even in Slovenia a judge cannot be a lawyer. If a judge wants to become a lawyer, he has to stop being a judge and then he can become a lawyer. I don't want to be understood as a lawyer, but the fact is that the laws of the countries you mentioned speak of judges who can't and can't become lawyers, and not about people who were once judges and prosecutors. The proposal we have on the table is, of course, talking about people who were judges today, and we want to ban them from doing this job for the next four years. In this regard, let me mention the German case, which is also mentioned in the draft law or in the draft of the novel. That's where a judge who decides to become a lawyer even rests his rights as a judge. That means when he ceases to be a lawyer, he automatically returns to court. So, there's no problem with that, either, that a lawyer becomes a judge, let alone have a problem with a judge becoming a lawyer. I am convinced that the transition of the judiciary from the prosecution to the judiciary, from the judiciary to the prosecution, from the prosecution to the lawyers, from the lawyers to the courts and from the judicial types to the lawyers will only bring better quality of work. The better quality of the work of those who want to carry out the mission they choose, and this freedom is now possible. However, this freedom is limited, as I have already said, in Article 5 of the Law. The lawyer can't represent the case the prosecutor was in before. It's clearly in the law right now. The appearance of impartiality that the proposed novels are supposed to protect. I don't know how impartial the court's appearance has to do with who's going to appear in court. I think that the appearance of impartiality has much more to do with how the court acts and how the judge acts. And the impartial judge is one who is personally convinced that what he is doing is his mission, which performs this mission fully committed and responsible. And if we no longer feel that way, it is necessary to allow this mission to cease and continue its professional challenge elsewhere. If I conclude, the existing regime prohibits situations which are at issue; it prohibits a lawyer from representing a client in cases where he has previously acted as a judge or a prosecutor. The existing law on procedural laws applicable in the courts commands the judge if he feels that he may be biased in order to be expelled. If the parties consider that the judge may be biased, they shall have the opportunity to request his appointment. This instrument is well tested in practice, perhaps even too. I do not think that the existing regime is required for the establishment of a greater independence of the judiciary of a regime that would restrict and violently hold people in court. This will be the consequence of such a ban; a four-year ban means professional death if I express myself a little graphicly. A two-year-old means the same thing. After one year, a lawyer who is used to working in a courtroom, if he does not do so, is severely handicapped in reactivation. And not only will this measure not only contribute to a greater sense of impartiality, but I fear it will also contribute to making the functioning of the judiciary completely less quality. As far as the restriction of competition is concerned. It is by allowing for a transition that competition opens up and competition means quality. That's how it's supposed to be. If competition does not create quality, then there is no reason to close competition. But as has already been said, there is no basis for arguing that the existing regime leads to the inquality work of the judiciary. If we want to analyze the reasons why judges decide to come to other legal professions, as I said before, the numbers don't call for an alarm. They do not call for some really half-inventory measures to prevent this freedom of passage. Finally, this restriction of this freedom would also be unconstitutional, but it seems even more important to me that it would not contribute to a higher quality and would certainly not affect the feeling of a better rule of law in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you very much. You want me, Mrs. Jeraeva, as a proponent. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I would then like to hear from you once, Mr Secretary of State, that the regulation concerning the lawyer is appropriate and that everything is as it should be, which means that we will probably not change that for the next period if you claim that this is true; therefore that things are as good as you say. However, I would like not to say that we will prevent anyone from doing anything because we are not preventing them, but we are restricting them for only four years. And if it's a professional death for lawyers or judges or a professional death for four years when they can't do what they're trained to do and what they know, what does that mean for a cop who's not a cop anymore? What should he do as a merchant for four years and then be a security guard in four years?Oh, my God! So these are very such arguments. [[...]] We have just estimated that a period — that is, we do not limit it forever, but in some way, in the previous novel, we have estimated that three years, now four years, because otherwise we would have been told that we literally wrote everything the way it was. If someone is away from what he used to do, for example, there will be no exploitation of the data he has and of the things he has been working on. There may be some restrictions, this is always so, they are already in the Law on Lawyering, I agree with that, but we are also extending the proposal not only to representation but also to counseling. [[...]] This seems important to us, so we have tabled such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. You want the Secretary of State? If you want to, of course. Please, Mr. Boštjan Škrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. With regard to the comparison of police status after the termination of police duty and judicial status, I believe that the essential difference between the work carried out by the police officer and the information obtained by the police officer is that of those obtained by the judge. But above all, it's something else. The point is that the existing legislation restricts the lawyer, if he comes from judicial or prosecutorial types, to his activity. As I have already said, Article 5 limits his right of representation. He limits it to cases in which he had not previously participated in his previous ministry. So, for example, in which, if I may say so, he is clean, unobstructed with work in his previous ministry. This Article 5 already provides. However, the situation in the bar is such that we can neither create nor want the better, and I do not want to make such a statement nor can I. We're always trying to improve the system. And the legal profession is certainly one that is, because of its specificity and difficulty, as well as the exposure of the situations in which lawyers take place, so that it arouses many perceptions, often unjustifiable, sometimes justified. Improving such a system is the way, but the current arrangement gives answers to the dilemmas you have highlighted. The current arrangement gives you that. For such a radical intervention, according to our assessment, there is no need or basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. It's more about repeating some of the findings than saying new ones. But since it creates the feeling that the actual situation as it is today, unlike what is true, I think it is right to repeat this: it is not true that a judge who has tried a particular case could represent a client as a lawyer. It is not true that someone who was a prosecutor could later carry out the same matter as the client. It is not true that someone who represented one client today can represent another client tomorrow. There are already prohibitions in this direction. I know it is very pleasant, but "nice" is not the expression that it is very kind to people at all if we are critical of judges and lawyers, many times for a reason as well as many times for no reason. A little less to the D.A.'s office. More so when it comes to wrong family ties or false accusations, it is against the judges, and lawyers usually feel that they are doing something wrong. It is right that we are critical of this work, but let us not simplify matters. The comparison is also with the police, after what I understand and read, but there is a big difference in the fact that anyone representing a client as a lawyer represents a client – except in counseling that cannot be ascertained, because counseling is a different personal relationship – representing before a court, before a public authority, and seeing that representation there, the opposite party may, if he finds out that he has previously represented someone else, object to this. There's something completely different about police work. The police officer who left the detectives is carrying with him the information he had. And this information can be transmitted to someone who is useful to the other, but this third simply does not know because it is not revealed in some procedure. Therefore, this situation is different and it is now envisaged that for a certain period of time the transition from the work of a police officer who, by his nature, received some information that is not for everyone to the work of a detective in order to be able to use these things as a detective. I don't think there's really any need to adopt this law. I do not understand the arguments unless the arguments are based on incorrect facts. I hope not, because otherwise I see no reason why someone who is not allowed to represent another party now if he has participated in a previous trial as a judge, as a prosecutor, or as a lawyer, who has performed representations so as not to go from a judicial to a legal profession and engage in legal activity for someone who has nothing to do with it. You know well that the issue of the constitutional dispute was actually linked to a much narrower and simpler question of whether you should represent a party or pass through in some environment, and it was said that this restriction could not be anticipated. At that time, the Constitutional Court did not judge whether a ban on entering another profession was possible. What would be the decision, it is not known, but to refer to the fact that the Constitutional Court has given the opportunity to ban this activity so far is simply not possible. The other way around! That is why I would really like if there could be a stronger argument on the day to discuss it, because those who are now given, in my opinion, I am trying to evaluate them objectively, do not meet the objectives that the proponents are trying to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants to speak to the proponent? Mrs. Jeraeva, would you like another word? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u173	Well, I do not think that Mr Secretary of State has replied to how he assesses the decision adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy and by the members of the Committee, who have found or assessed two years ago that this may be a problem, a transition in this way. In addition, if there is only so much, 9 and 2 — or as much as you said, I apologize, just to find — it is probably not such a problem or we should really ask ourselves why they are going through, in what way, and in what way. We may have the wrong impression, but of course we have the impression on the basis of some very receptive cases that I have already mentioned: Mr Penk, now also Mr Ironman, for whom no detention has been imposed. We can rightly doubt it because it comes from and comes from certain kinds. I don't know what made the judge decide as it is, but the ordinary citizen will say that the crow is crowing and so on. [[...]] There will always be doubts here, and we will all together question honesty and correctness if we have such cases before our eyes. Even if there are few, they are so obvious to you that it is difficult to say that this is a matter of coincidence and that we cannot all judge on some of the most problematic and receptive cases. I still think our proposal is correct, no matter what. He doesn't take forever to get a job as a lawyer, but he does specify a period in which he can't. And I think such a proposal would be acceptable. I was also not convinced by my colleague Potsch's argument that a police officer who directs traffic there has enough information to abuse them as a detective. Well, that seems a little oversimplistic to me. It seems to me less harmful or problematic when he works as a detective than in the cases that I have already mentioned, that is, the Attorney General, who does have much more information and access to many more documents, then becomes a lawyer and represents someone. We know that things are not going in such a way that restrictions are normal, and it is unlikely that Mr Penko will appear in court, but a law firm will appear in which he is employed and worked by his colleagues. But the instructions, we know where they'll get those who will then represent Mr. Zidar in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u175	Very briefly. I'm used to being given terrible rude simplifications and insulting simplifications. I'm not talking about traffic cops, Mrs. Jeraeva. And that's all about the transition. Without reading anything, the minister in the previous term was categorical as to the transition of judges to the bar profession, as is now the current government and the ministry, either categorical or clear. See, in an answer he said – when Dr. Šturm answered the question of the referral of judges to the law firm, it was a case in Cyprus – he replied as follows: "In relation to the departure of the President of the Court of Cyprus" – I will not mention the name, but here it is said – "in a society of lawyers" – the name is also mentioned – let me repeat the already well-known position that this is not unusual, it has already happened and there is nothing illegal." [[advertising from the hall]] I know, but there's nothing out of the ordinary. And in support of the fact that this act cannot be seen as a legal irregularity — like the illegals can change jobs, lawyers can also use these rights. There's no issue here. I just want to say that it is not true that this is a political view, but it is simply a fact of what incompatibilities means, what a competitive clause means, what are things that are such an explanation and such an objective, according to our assessment, go beyond. And that's what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u177	Yes, otherwise he could not have answered Mr Sturm at the time, because such a law is valid and there is really nothing wrong with this moment, as this is why we are proposing a change of law. Until the law has been amended, however, this is allowed and anyone can do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? It's a request for a debate. Anybody else want some? The ones you want to discuss, please apply. So, one report that has five minutes of time. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I tried to justify why I would not support this law, especially in that part that does not speak of this universal prohibition, I wanted to say the following — and I hope that this was understood, at least by most. Firstly, I said that there are no analytical data to talk about what the material says, that we have more and more cases of transitions between judges and state prosecutors between lawyers, which in some cases raises doubts about fairness. If I have correctly understood the Secretary of State, he has also denied this claim by absolute numbers and said that the trend is different. So that what the proponents list in their argument is talking about exactly the opposite of what is actually happening. So, not that there are more and more of these cases, as I understand it, there are fewer and fewer. And that's why I've been missing analytical data to talk about how many of these prosecutors and judges have been turned into lawyers in the last period. Since this is the last period, it is in this argument of the applicant. Another time. The current regulation limits the representation of a single lawyer in three cases, and we will not now list. The taxi is listed when someone can't do it. The new proposal, which is now proposed, is absolute for all representations for four years. So not only must he not represent the one where conflicts of interest could be identified, but no one. And if you're not allowed anyone, it's an absolute ban, which is limited in your proposal to four years. When I mentioned that there are no international comparisons that are in favour of the proposed law, it is only necessary to read again what you yourself have stated. So, in any of the cases that you mentioned, there are no arguments to support your proposal for such restrictions. And I also wanted to say that I also lack analysis or some statistics that say that there are no such transitions in other countries, but that we have enormous numbers and that we need to raise our voices. So, because of what I have been challenged in one of the replicas, I believe that these my indications, which I am now talking about, are correct and that, on the basis of these findings I am now making, it is entirely reasonable to be against a proposal that limits, which provides that Berufsverbot is for four years for all judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item, which will be suspended at 16.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u181	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Alexander Zorn, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We will vote against this institution sui generis of public law, because it is inconsistent, it will bring a lot of problems, TV will continue to deal with itself and the program will not be any better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? He doesn't want to. Please apply for explanations of vote in your own name. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Andrej Magajna. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u184	Yeah, I'll explain my voice. In the debate, I had 7 seconds at my disposal and, as you know, I couldn't say much, except that I had pointed out the position of the cultural workers' union, which I am also standing behind, and I will say that I am summarizing their words, which are also an explanation of my vote. Public RTV and public services in general are not intended for marketing, i.e. for widest, widest viewing, for cultivating relations between people, people, nature and ideas, opening up content in the domestic environment and the world between selected and known creativity and search on social, artistic, human boundaries. The non-systemicity, legal inadequacy and deviation from the true purpose of national television are the ideal basis for the financial and substantive degradation of the public service RTV Slovenia. And as I add, the model for decommissioning other public institutions as well, as we hear from public companies, hybrid models that will introduce marketing and profit opportunities through public funds. I will vote against the law, despite the threat I received last Thursday at 4 p.m. and I will also announce it next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So I will be against it, too, from the following point of view; today we have heard much that this law will allow for a new quality of governance. It was catastrophic, the new programming board was supposed to appoint a new director-general and it was written in all the rules that the majority of the fifteen were required, but there were only fourteen. But this did not disturb the President of Mr Pikal's new programming board, otherwise he claims to be a great media expert not to issue a regulation appointing a new director-general. This work, of course, had to be prevented by the Labour and Social Court, which told him that fourteen is not the majority, that fifteen is the majority, and this majority must also apply to the new authority. This is a very bad travel for management and also for this law on RTV, which is supposed to add some more things. This is because you are obviously in the position that "we are not subject to the law" and "if we say that the fourteen is the majority and not the fifteen, then that will probably be enough". And that's supposed to be the new paradigm and the new pattern that they're working on. The coalition knows better and better, but I wonder how and for whom better and otherwise. If this case is one of the characteristics of how it started on RTV that "for us" – you, of course – the laws do not apply and if we say that fourteen is enough for fifteen, then I am very afraid of how this law will work too. Even in this law, you obviously didn't have to tell yourself some of the things we've warned about, and I'm afraid there's going to be a court here to tell us something and prove to us that you too are considered to be fourteen. That is why, of course, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot support the law alone because the law is not in the public interest. It is not in the public interest, however, because it enables commercial activities to be carried out to the detriment of the public service, which is inconsistent with the purpose of establishing the public institution RTV Slovenia and its public funding. This is confirmed by the content of the law, a study on the status of radio broadcasting in other countries, including the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, as well as various magnetograms of meetings. Although the Minister consistently repeats the facts about the content of this law, as was the case with her final speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much. So we're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 21. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for the Nordic Centre Planica Act in the context of the regular procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 12. In doing so, I would point out that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 13 and 106 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, DeSUS, Res and LDS to Article 13. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 106. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item We continue with the end of agenda 14 – the third is the proposal for a law on the real estate of the State and the self-governance of local communities under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda – third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Property Fund of the Republic of Slovenia under the ordinary procedure Because the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS are 19. Ten. 2010 has withdrawn the amendment to article 11 of the amended bill, and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 17. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 16th item of the agenda – the third is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Compensation of Victims of Crime in the framework of a regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda – the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyers is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I said earlier in the introduction that the rule of law and the functioning of our citizens and citizens are assessing the low and many times the question whether Slovenia is a legal state, they answer with a 'no'. They estimate that lawyers are always a few steps ahead of the police, prosecutors and judges and that, therefore, we all pay together for the rule of law, which is often quite ineffective. At the 55th meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, a decision or proposal was adopted by the Government to amend the legislation which would prevent the direct transition of judges and prosecutors between lawyers. This Decision has already been adopted in July 2008. Since then, last September, we have proposed the amendment of the law for the first time, and we are now proposing this for the second time. Therefore, we believe that, by restricting the transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers four years after they cease to be judges or have served as a judge or a state prosecutor for the past four years, they cannot become lawyers for four years. We believe that it is not enough to say that we believe that the trial is fair and that every citizen has the right to a fair trial, it is also important that they have such an impression of citizens and citizens. Similar examples have been cited in other lands. Although the Secretary of State has previously challenged this, we estimate that in these countries which have such an arrangement – we have mentioned Sweden and Germany – they have decided to take such a step in order for their legal state to operate. And what is the main argument that the Government rejects this law is that it limits someone's right to work. There too, people have the right to work, but they are putting before them the right of citizens to a fair trial. That is why we believe that the law is appropriate and that it is right to support it. We will, of course, do so in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u191	Hello?Oh, my God! Anybody else want to explain their voice? I called you with the word "hello." I hope you understand that. I see there's no response. In your own name? On behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf? Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? In your own name, anyone else? Please, in your own name, Dara Lavtizar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm responding to your hello.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u193	You don't have to. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u194	[[Laugh]] But what's done is done. Of course, we cannot support this bill because it seems to me that it was put in for some other reason than we would expect it to be. Although it has been said that the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has already adopted a decision in July 2008 that would have sent the National Assembly to make such a change of law – that is to say, direct transition from one service to another has been prevented so far, and what we are facing today is totally inappropriate. More. I think it's about mixing apples and pears. And in this sense, this bill is very dilettarian and cannot be supported in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item – Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on one side and the Republic of Serbia on the other side with a summary list. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Members of the Social Democrats have always advocated the further enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkan countries, aware of the fact that the convergence of these countries with European integration must take place in full compliance with the terms of association. Since Slovenia has made an important contribution in this regard to bringing the Republic of Serbia closer to European-Atlantic integration, which is not the least evidence of today's visit by Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic to Slovenia, we support the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia. Although the agreement was signed two years ago. However, its ratification was delayed until June this year in the Member States of the European Union due to Serbia's unsatisfactory cooperation with the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague. Today, however, we can see that Serbia has made progress since 2008 and that only a few issues remain pending at this time, including the extradition of two citizens of the Republic of Serbia accused of war crimes in the Hague court, and the arrangements for relations with the Republic of Kosovo, but now is the time to further encourage Serbia to continue constructive dialogue with the authorities in Kosovo. We will therefore support the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the Group of Social Democrats, as it is an incentive for European forces in Serbia to insist on approaching the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – IT'S ON MANATE VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We will first consider the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President and members of the Management Agency of Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for appointment was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission, as the working body of the Member State which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group, the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be presented by Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! In the SDS Group, we voted against the law that made the said amendment because it strengthens the para state and, in particular, because it strengthens the imprudent back-to-back political decision, as has been shown in the recent discharges of energy supervisors and the Post of Slovenia. The objective of this change is the remainder of the State assets in Kad and in the Court and in companies to be transferred under the auspices of the Agency, for example, energy, which will be proposed by the Agency's newly appointed and seemingly independent management and proposed by the Board, in the interests of the new policy, from the portfolio to the portfolio, exchange or sell. All of this will be packed under cover of expertise and independence. How this will work is well explained by Prime Minister Pahor when he said that the Government in many of these companies is also not responsible for managing state shares. That is why various lobbyists can graze there, there can be reckless and unsupported and politically motivated personnel change beyond President Pahor's paradigms. He at the end, when it was all over, only dedication and blessing. Many companies owned by a majority of the state are swindled by silent companies, where silent shareholders of directors of state-owned companies, who secretly, untransparently channel money from these companies into their own or other private accounts. The authorities that are required to act on an official duty shall do nothing, the Government shall not respond as a assembly and shall not dismiss the supervisors, they shall not dismiss the directors, no proceedings shall be instituted: neither investigation nor criminal proceedings shall be instituted. Anti-corruption or investigative authorities shall be silent, any proceedings in the courts shall be blocked. The President of the Government, however, responds or does not respond, which means that the Government protects or supports such money laundering and money-laundering. It will or will be the same in the case of an apartment house in Murglah, under the birch 7. In recent times, the Government has even changed its rules of procedure, which will not even make the debate of ministers arguing on disputed issues recorded in the magnetograms. The government is becoming such a secret box. In particular, it is excluded from the control of state property that we do not talk about the opposition in the National Assembly, but even the young coalition parties are involved in the looting, which shows how deeply ours are, that is to say, yours have intervened in the rest of the state property. We will, of course, vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of the Member of Parliament. The word is Dushan Kumer. He gives up his word. We have concluded the debate and are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to be taken for President Procedural? [[....]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I request a half-hour recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u201	Right now, just to read this announcement, then I'll put it to the vote. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Dagmar Komar as President of the Management of Capital and Investment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia; they are called mag. Danilo Grašič and Marko Golob. The proposal for a decision will be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 18 of the Law on the Management of Capital Companies of the Republic of Slovenia if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Before that, we need to make a statement on the vote. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. In your own name? Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. I must admit that in this case there will be one fact in the eyes, and this is that the National Assembly has ways of making such appointments in fact with relatively tied hands. Let me start by saying that I will support the decision because I want the new institution in this area, which is necessary to implement the new corporate policy of the country, so that I will support the appointment of the authorities precisely for the reason that we get to the relevant persons as soon as possible. At the same time, it is surprising, however, that Members, with unquestionably confidence in the Government and the human resources decision of the Government as a candidate in this case, do not in fact have the slightest opportunity to ask these people, with our confidence, to decide how state assets will be managed, not a single simple question. Because I believe it is time for the Agency to come to life, to get all its organs as soon as possible and to bring to the National Assembly the announced capital investment management strategy of the country as soon as possible, I will, however, support the proposal, as the Government has put it before us today in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Any more explanations for the voice, in your own name? I guess not. I'm concluding a vote. I'm relieving the interruption. The meeting of the National Assembly will continue with the vote at 5.05 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u204	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. We are at the 31st item of the agenda – Mandate-voluntary matters, under point A. We are voting on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a President and members of the Management Agency of Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Since there was a desire to interrupt, would you like to speak with Mr Kontic? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 13. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the President and members of the Board of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for appointment was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Borut Saiovic wants to introduce [[...]] [[He doesn't want to.]] The panellists are not present for the debate, so we conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and Members. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the President of the Council of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Alja Markovich Time and as members are called Dr. Tomaž Kerestes, Mitja Močivnik, Dr. Otmar Zorn and Mag. Mojca Majerich. The proposal for a decision will be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 18 of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 14. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the decision appointing a representative of the National Assembly to the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The debate of Members is next. Does Bojan Kontic want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling him a member of the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO Samo Bevk. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a discussionThe proposal for a decision appointing a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. The SDS opposed the recently adopted integrity law, which abolished the only control over the so-called Kosovo, now Klemenčič's anti-corruption commission, implemented by Parliament under the previous law. The reason for the abolition of parliamentary control was the request of the State-level assembly commission requiring the completion of the report on the work of the so-called Kosovo Commission for 2008 with the activities of Kosovo and its members in the Patria affair at home and abroad. Since the pressure of the coalition Members on the President of the Marinič Commission did not bring the required resignation of Marinič, and because Kos failed three times with his demands for the annulment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Commission, which he supervised, in the Constitutional Court, the Government and its obedient coalition voting machine adopted a new law which had abolished the National Assembly. The new commission led by Goran Klemenčič will work completely without supervision. Since the current Commission is acting completely contrary to democratic standards without supervision, we are also opposed to all the human resources appointments that have been made on the basis of this law. However, that the staffing does not take place in line with the expectations of the President of the Republic, the President of the Government and the coalition shows the resignation of one of the already elected members of the new commission, Jožet Končan. In fact, it is a great embarrassment for all those who participated in the selection process, from the President of the Republic to the members of the electoral commission. He concluded in his resignation statement that, when he was running for this job, he had set up an appropriate composition of the Commission as the main criterion under which he would accept this function and that he wanted to work with professional people who were not burdened by politics. However, he noted that the remaining members of the Commission in the public eye were politically highly profiled and that they were accepted by politics and the general public very bipolarally. He concluded, therefore, that the appointment of members of the Commission had already violated the fundamental principle of political independence and political equisistance to persons who would be involved in corrupt and clientistic stories. The replacement of Dusan Kumra, appointed by the National Assembly as a member of the National Assembly to a transitional commission with a new member, although from the opposition, will not change anything. The problem is the concept. And in the SDS, we will vote against the concept.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this proposal myself. I heard a lot of questions about the current regulation at the parent’s working body meeting today. In recent years, I have also heard that the previous arrangements were not good, they were not satisfied with the President of the Commission, and the current arrangements are not good. It would only be good for Members to supervise themselves. I believe that the arrangement regulated by this law is such that it endures a critical judgment. With regard to appointment, which is the point of the agenda, i.e. the appointment of a member of the selection committee for the selection of suitable candidates, let me say that the Commission has done a good job in its previous composition, that it is not possible for the work of the commission to be evaluated after someone has resigned after the completion of the procedure and does not wish to perform these functions, that is the right of anyone who can run. That is how he decided, and I also respect his reasons, which he listed, although I can say that I fully understand it not. At the time when we selected the candidate for this commission, Dusan Kumer was the only one proposed and a lot of controversy was in the direction: because we have nothing against Dusan Kumru, but we are against the fact that the coalition has a member in this election commission. And no one else was reported. We have now had the only proposal from the Slovenian People's Party and we will support it in the parliamentary group, but it is not a coalition, it is an opposition. Now, too, these arguments that this is a coalition man, the coalition MP, are out. So, we would like this Commission to be more successful in choosing one who will also be a member of this committee, and I will also vote in favour of this proposal for such a trip. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer. [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Guido Kres as a member of the selection committee for the selection of suitable candidates for the appointment of the Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for appointment of the two commission of inquiry. If you agree, the addresses of these investigative committees would not be read entirely, only to the extent that they are known, because this is more appropriate. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternates of the Committee of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion that the official position of the holders of public functions has been misused in order to influence the outcome of the elections in the 2008 National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Here comes the debate of the Member of Parliament. The word is Melita Župevc. [[He's giving up.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions on the suspicion that they have been involved in financing disputed management acquisitions. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the request of the Maribor District Court for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against a judge of the Lenart District Court. The request was referred to the State Assembly by the Court of Justice in Maribor. The case was dealt with by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act, relating to the request of the Court of Justice in Maribor. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I Kpr 4257/2010 of 9. 6. 2010 to decide whether to initiate criminal proceedings against a judge of the District Court in Lenart Mirjana Pintarič for the suspicion of a crime of abuse of an official position and of official rights under Article 261, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Code, in respect of the suspicion of a crime of abuse of an official position and of an official right under Article 261, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Code, and not to allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Article 214 relating to the 207th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. 61 Members and Members attended, 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the District Attorney's Office in Kranj for a criminal prosecution permit against a Member of the National Assembly. The request was referred to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Kranj for consideration of the assembly. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members in relation to the request of the District Attorney General in Kranj, No. KT01373/098RV/NP of 8. 9. 2010 for a criminal prosecution permit against Member of the National Assembly Branko Marinič on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a crime of inciting a crime of document counterfeiting under Article 206(1) of the Penal Code relating to Article 26 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of Member of the National Assembly to Branko Marinič and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, concerning the indictment of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office's proposal in Ljubljana against the MP of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, Article 2K2457/2010 of 23. 9. 2010 on an action motion against the Member of the National Assembly, Janez Janša, for reasons of reasonable suspicion of the offence of accepting a gift for unlawful intervention under Article 290(1) of the Penal Code relating to Article 95 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly, Janez Janša, and authorises the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Yesterday, in the context of the vote on the 1st item of the agenda, the National Assembly did not vote by mistake on the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the Member State. That's why I'm reopening the 1st item of the agenda. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the question of Mr Pojbič's question on the protection of workers' rights. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u209	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Before I begin my discussion on this subject, I must say that today I am going to throw up to sit in the National Assembly. Really. That's what I have to tell you. I'll write that, too. Dear President, the reason I have decided to propose a broader debate on this subject that you have discussed is as follows. Mr Minister answered the question I raised very unsatisfactoryly, and I thought that the topic I was talking about when it came to setting up straw companies was so important that this issue should be discussed more widely in the National Assembly. Mr Minister replied to me that, on the basis of a decision taken at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs convened by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Government was committed to a certain point in preparing appropriate solutions within three months, but, as the Minister answered the question, the representatives of the Government spoke to the Economic and Social Council about the issue but found no solution to the problem. However, it seems to me that this issue is too important; this is about the exploitation of employees, i.e. the most vulnerable groups of workers, groups of people in our country and their ministry in three months, together with the social partners, has not found the right basis to resolve this issue in favour of the employees. Here one of the very resilient SCT subsidiaries was very exposed, where 120 employees were transferred from the subsidiary to the straw company and then that straw company went bankrupt after a while. Those workers, because it was a company without any assets, could not turn to anything after that, because they were simply deprived of their rights in terms of paying back their wages — about six months they did not receive salaries, not regress, not departures, and so on. And because that straw company didn't have any assets, they couldn't turn to anything and they lost everything. That's what these questions are, and there's still a lot of problems. That is why I felt that there was an urgent need to speak more broadly in the National Assembly, and I also proposed that we vote on this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary group would like to explain their vote? He doesn't want to. Ambassadors? Mr. Petan, in his own name. Anyone else? First Mr Rudolf Petan in his own name, then Mr Marijan Pojbič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support this proposal. These straw companies didn't grow up yesterday, but they're still real and it looks like they're more up to date every day, because we probably haven't reached those peaks yet. My speaker mentioned one, this is SCT, where unfortunately the workers found that they were in fact employed in a straw company when they were on the road without all rights and without any social protection. Given that judges are now immune to the fact that an investigation against them is not possible, we have done this for the first time today, then it is all the more important that we hold this debate. Of course, such an example was very striking in the case of Pivovarna Laško, where even the director of a straw company received some big management award, says the manager of the year, if I am not mistaken, she was even. Thus, it is not such a lonely innovation that has emerged recently, but I am afraid that it is possible to conclude that some straw company has also been created in connection with Vegrad and that those workers who worked in Murgles Under the Beehives 7 may not have been so coincidentally, and that everything was probably well studied. Of course, the workers are not guilty of anything; they stayed on the road; they worked there for the benefit of an individual; the managers sent them, which are now moving, with material that should be embedded in some apartments that some other citizens have already paid for. That is why I believe that such a debate is very necessary and even necessary, so of course I support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Marian Pojbich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u213	So, Mr President, because I have proposed a broader debate on this issue, I will explain why. I'm sure the workers are the most vulnerable group in this country, and we've had quite a lot of opportunities to see these recently, and we've been warned by all the officers, the unions and so on about how the workers in this country are being exploited! How unprotected they are in this country! It's something amazing, something amazing! And this government, this coalition has time for everything, has time to prepare a way to freeze pensions for pensioners, how to freeze social assistance, and nothing to do to protect employees in this country. Nothing, absolutely nothing! And for three and a half months, the government had time to prepare appropriate solutions to prevent or disable all those who abused legislation — and it did nothing! And even when Mr Minister answered my questions, he said that they had received five times, but I don't know what else, they were spending tax money, but there are no results. Because the social partners disagreed with the Government's proposal, they did not find an appropriate solution. I have made it very clear to the Minister that they should find new ground for discussion with the social partners and will certainly find an appropriate solution for the benefit of the employees in this country. We have time for everything else, for everyone else, so I won't make an ugly statement, because today I am very sad about one of the events that happened here today. It's amazing, but for the employees, for those who barely survive, who can't live, for those of us who have this power, this government and this coalition don't have time. You don't give a damn about those. You're interested in elites, you're interested in lawyers' stories, you're interested in everything because those elites are on the sidelines, because I'm sure it's a story that's connected to each other, and I'm not going to say in any way [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-20-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm also informing you that you received the order of discussers for tomorrow on Thursday 21st. Ten. I merely stress that tomorrow the National Assembly will not vote on the proposals; this vote will be held in the context of the scheduled vote on Tuesday, 26. 10., in the context of the votes envisaged. I'm adjourning the 21st meeting of the assembly, which we'll be making tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you very much and good-bye.
