ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Marijan Pojbič and Jakob Presečnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 35. Agenda item – Defence of Interpellations on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Education and Sport of Dr. Igor Lukšič. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 31 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. To Andre Visiak for an explanation of the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party, we signed under the interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšić, due to: for the first time, the suspicion of preparing the terms of the invitation to tender for the selection of co-financing operations for investments in sport and recreation infrastructure, so that these conditions correspond to only one provider; the suspicion of abuse of official position or abuse of official rights under the Penal Code and the suspicion of the abuse of the Ministry of Education and Sport to distort the terms of the invitation to tender for the selection of co-financing of investments in sport-recreational infrastructure – to suit only one applicant – and, of course, to create inequality before the law. I will continue to scrutinise the reasons thoroughly and, last but not least, to specify the infringements of the legislation and of all sub-legislative acts. In the introduction, however, let me point out that this is not an interpretation of the sports object Stožice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were convinced and confirmed by action in the past that the Slovenian capital Ljubljana needed a modern sports complex, a modern sports hall, a modern football stadium, and we also included these projects in the resolution of national projects, already during the previous government, and we have already provided the necessary resources in the budgets; of course, then there was no realisation. I'll also tell you why it didn't come true at the time. Well, we're sure we need a sports park like this. We believe that it is crucial that sport infrastructure develops in Slovenia and also in the capital, but at the same time we are convinced that no minister should devote any resources to this objective. Therefore, the objective does not focus on the means to violate legislation, to implement it in a non-transparent manner, to violate the principle of equal access to public funds for all and the like. This principle advocates both Slovenian and European legislation. So that there will be no confusion, I stress this once again: this is not an intervention against this sport park, it is an intervention against a minister who has crossed quite a few specific provisions of legislation and regulations and, of course, European regulations in the final stage of the implementation of this project. Let's go in one order. On the basis of the three decisions previously read in the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party, we propose, on the basis of Article 18 of the Constitution and Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly, after having concluded its discussion on the interpretation and work of the responsibility of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić, should decide to dismiss Dr Igor Lukšič from his office as Minister for Education. Under a number of specific provisions, I will first prove that the terms of the invitation to tender, which was of course published on 2 July this year, were limited to one project and only one possible tenderer. If you listen carefully and if you do not already have a pre-programmed way of dealing with this topic, you will probably also recognize convincing arguments in this regard to support the decision we are proposing; therefore, after the discussion, the Minister will be resolved. Firstly, by letter 6710-3/2010 of 9 June this year, the Minister of Education and Sport informed all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia that there is no funding in the 2010 State budget for the implementation of co-financing in the tender for selected projects and that co-financing will be carried over to 2011 and thus cannot be implemented in 2010 for the co-financing of sport infrastructure. In particular, he stated the reason that, due to restrictive austerity measures in the 2010 State budget, "sadly, it was not possible to provide funds for the implementation of the selected projects and that co-financing of these projects was carried over to 2011. Thus, funds for 2011 have already been allocated and we cannot implement the call for proposals this year. The next call for co-financing of sport infrastructure can be expected in the first trimester of 2011". And, of course, in the hope that they understand these unloving situations, all municipalities in Slovenia welcome the Minister of Education and Sport. See, a bad month after that, a bad month after that, the same ministry published a call in the Official Journal for the selection of operations to co-finance investments in sport recreation infrastructure, which is, of course, partly financed by European funds and partly by the budgetary or integral resources of the Slovenian budget. So, less than one month after informing all the mayors that there is no money for the call for municipal sports infrastructure projects, the Ministry shall call for a call focusing on important national projects and – as we will see later – it shall exclude much or all municipalities in this country through the criteria and criteria, since it deals only with regions with criteria, not at all with municipalities, and it is a completely changed course of all previous calls where municipalities can apply, depending on the needs of the municipalities and the specific nature of the sport infrastructure in the specific municipality. All in a row – we'll prove everything. Therefore, the purpose of this call was to co-finance facilities of a national or regional nature. So that municipal sports infrastructure projects are financed, because the municipalities to the municipality within the regions are very different. For example, I know in particular that Posavje, in particular Krka, is well covered with sports recreation infrastructure; it has some sports halls – in Brežice, for example, we do not have one and we have now started building it with our own municipal resources. Therefore, if we follow regional criteria, then certain municipal projects, although very necessary and important, cannot be taken into account at all. So, a completely targeted first provision. Second provision. The value of an investment without tax must exceed EUR 5 million and must not exceed EUR 45 million. In short, these are major sports infrastructure projects that were and are quite a few in Slovenia above this number. Thus, all smaller sports projects are already being eliminated in a number of smaller municipalities that still need these projects. The applicant must submit a statement on the grounds that the initiation of the operations was necessary prior to the submission of the application for this invitation to tender. This is said to have made it possible for the Ministry to sign up for projects already in place and practically completed. Why are they practically finished? For the next provision of the tender says that all operations must be completed by the end of this year. This is said to be the tender issued on 2 July this year, which is between €5 million and €45 million, must be completed by the end of this year, i.e. within five months. This is more than obvious that the invitation to tender is adapted to the projects already started. I will not be convinced by anyone in this Chamber that – by the way, eligible costs are also considered to be project documentation, start design or that you already have projects and a building permit obtained; therefore, it is possible to build a facility within five months and submit all relevant documentation, carry out a technical review, obtain a useful permit by the end of this year. This is impossible – whoever has ever done any project worth more than 1 million euros. Therefore, it is more obvious that this provision on the level of the value of the project, as regards the state-level orientation of the objectives – i.e. that it has a national or regional significance and thus a rapid conclusion – is more than likely to be adapted to the already launched sportrecreational infrastructure projects. The Minister for Education and Sport, if anyone in this country, has an overview of projects already under way, investments in state and recreational infrastructure of such a large extent. The Minister knew exactly what calls, which projects are about to be found in the range of potential applicants. And then they followed the criteria and criteria. These criteria and criteria were filtered by only one project. And let them be mentioned, the most obvious, which is contrary to Slovenian and European legislation, because it discriminates against five regions in advance. Let's take a look at these criteria. This is the so-called regional criterion. Under III – Priority criteria of the call – is the so-called regional criterion of the state of sports infrastructure in the regions, there is nothing to deal with the state of sports infrastructure in the municipalities, because the applicants are municipalities, not regions, of course regions are not a legal entity and cannot apply here at all, and a regional criterion is used as a criterion for evaluation and also for project decision. The invitation to tender states that notifiers must reach more than 50% of the points according to this regional criterion. Under this regional criterion, it is possible to reach 24 points, half of which is 12 points. The first regional criterion is the training area per capita in the region, i.e. square metres per capita. This is difficult – 10 points within 24 points. This criterion is not based on official data, such as Geodetic Administrations or Censuses, but is informal and probably not relevant for use in public calls, but there is no methodology and is not based on this data, but is used by the Ministry. What's your information? The regions are ranked according to the training areas, namely: for the first time Goriška region, which has only 1.12 square metres per inhabitant, for the second is the Central Slovene region with about 1.6, then Zasavska also around 1.6, then Dolenjska 1,76, Savinjska 2,25, Notranj-kraška 2,20 etc. Thus, scoring according to this criterion can be as follows: Goriška 10 points, Osrednjeslovenska 9 points, Zasavska 8 points and the lowest, say, Gorenjska 3 points, Koroška 2 points, Coastal-kraška 1 point, Podravska 0 points, Pomurska 0 points. The next regional criterion is to achieve financing of sport infrastructure from the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. This criterion, your honor, has not yet been applied, as I recall. This is said to have taken into account, under the criterion, who has already received some money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for sports infrastructure and according to this criterion has at least received the Dolenjska region, the second least of the Centres, then Pomurska, Podnjeposavska, Zasavska, Notranj-kraška, Goriška, Koroška, Coastal-Kraška and again on the tail of Podravska, Gorenjska and Savinjska. Then there are four more points, due to horizontal criteria that, say, all regions can receive. So the 12 points in this sum need to be achieved to assess your role in the first place or not to send it back. It follows that the following regions, namely Podravska, Coastal-Kaška region, Savinjska, Gorenjska and Koroška region, cannot reach 12 points at all. This is a selective criterion which pre-exposes applicants to tender. You can't sign up because you're out! Respected mayors of the Koroška region or anyone, the residents who are watching today what you are listening to from Coastal-Kraška, Savinja, Gorenjska, Podravské region – this call was not for you because you were thrown out in advance because you can’t, according to the square of already built sports areas per capita, according to what has been received so far from the Ministry for the co-financing of sports infrastructure, reach half of the points, 24 points, which is the exclusion criteria. This is proof that as many as 5 Slovenian statistical regions cannot run for public tender or can run, but cannot be chosen, even if they have brilliant projects, even if they have no idea what. This proves that the criteria are targeted at projects in the central region and, of course, at a single project. Such innovatively selected criteria, i.e. resident-to-occupied training areas by statistical regions and the funds received by statistical regions have never actually been used and adapted to this call. I have already pointed out that if, by chance, there were any other such projects – the minister knew about them because they had to be started – they would have been further sharpened with this criterion. Let us look at some other provisions in the invitation to tender that have been more than obviously adapted. Firstly, the applicant must also provide a space for public institutions in the field of sport in the new facility. With this provision, the Ministry of Education had in mind the public sports institute Planica and the public institute of the Sport Museum. For both public institutions, the Head of the Office for Sport in the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr Marko Kolenc, pointed out before the invitation to tender was published in public that they had already agreed to arrange the premises within the sports complex of Stožica for these institutions. That's proveable, publicly. The notifier must then submit a statement on the appropriate grounds that it is necessary to initiate the operation prior to the submission of the tender. The municipality of Ljubljana has prepared a strong number of years, at least four years, if not more, for this project. I'll talk about the chronology of events later. There is no justification for this, however, that this must happen in the second half of 2010 and that this is an urgent reason for the publication of the invitation to tender and that it would probably be a disaster, a natural disaster, I do not know what would happen if this sport park were not built without public funds and, of course, this call must be published. This call, by the way, I will restate it later, was the result of only one fact: the Stožice Sports Park did not have a completed financial structure, private financiers left, even for objective reasons and subjective reasons; they are also objective in the economic and financial crisis. So, he didn't have enough money for the financial structure to carry out the project and he panicked looking for replacement resources. Remember, first of all, the Minister of Education and Sport wanted the Minister of Finance to obtain a budget reserve for these purposes. This has, of course, fallen into the water because it is clear to the blind that the budget reserve cannot and should not be earmarked and would be unlawful if it were intended to finance some of the investments initiated that have lost their financial structure during the period of time. So it was an emergency exit. It was about providing money on the nose in the summer months to complete this park, which the mayor has repeatedly stressed that it must be opened in the summer and that he also has certain plans with this park, according to the pre-election time. Now, to the point — I will return to these criteria, which are very interesting — what are we actually reading to the minister? Breaking what laws? I stressed that this call was, and with some very specific things — by the way, regional criteria — I proved that he was selective, that he was excommunicating some. Article 53 of the Public Finance Act states: "The funds of subsidies, loans and other forms of State aid shall be awarded on the basis of a prior tender issued in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, under the conditions and procedure signed by the Minister responsible for finance, unless otherwise specified by a specific law." And now an important sentence of the second paragraph of Article 53 of the Public Finance Act: "The Minister of Finance in determining the conditions for the allocation of State aid funds makes sense to comply with the principles of the Public Procurement Act." And this is where we get to the Public Procurement Act. The Public Procurement Act in Article 7 states that the contracting authority in the procurement procedure, or in the case of a public tender, must not restrict competition between tenderers, in particular not restrict the possibility of tenderers with the choice and execution of a procedure contrary to that law, but must act in accordance with the rules on protection or prevention of competition. I do not know, the Minister for Education and Sport, where there can be even stronger justification that you, with the criteria, used the call itself to restrict the possibility of competition, to select potential applicants and to focus them on only one. You reasoned that when we put in the interpolation, everyone could appear, because more could be chosen. Of course, you have had an overview of already launched major projects in the country or those just before the start, as such major projects cannot and must not take place without the knowledge of the Ministry of Education and Sport. But in the end you chose only one, and this is the Stožice Sports Park. Look, I don't believe, Mr. Secretary-General, in coincidences, and I don't believe in this chronology of events, that it is possible, of course, to pass a non-target call. Let us look at another apparent violation of the law. The Regulation on the implementation of procedures for the use of European cohesion policy funds in the Republic of Slovenia in the 2007-2013 programming period is based on and is, in fact, an implementing regulation of a number of European Union regulations and is also in line with Slovenian legislation and is also based on Slovenian legislation. Article 16 of this Regulation lays down the approval and implementation of projects and groups of projects and lays down exceptions within this Article to the possibility that co-financing or selection of co-financing operations, or the selection of projects co-financed, may also take place, even if procurement procedures or project implementation procedures have already begun. There are two exceptions, only two exceptions. The first exception is if such a project is in the development programme plan. I don't know, teach me, but I don't know if it is – or if it's not the Stožice Sports Park in the 2010 Rebalanced State Budget Development Programme Plan. That's one thing. However, the second possible exception is, if, in the procurement phase, the works previously delivered before they are confirmed by the tenderer, before obtaining a decision that the project is aided by the State, that is to say that the award procedures were carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and that the Ministry of Education and Sport also participated with the consent granted, as well as the management body. Therefore, if I sum up, the Stožice Sports Park could exceptionally be co-financed by European funds if it were in the development programme plan and provided that all the works for this sport park were submitted under the public procurement law. And I ask you, were all the construction, construction and construction works and all the works in the Stožice Sports Park carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act? Were all contractors selected in accordance with the Public Procurement Act? That's what they say, including all those on Grep's side. And look at the chronology of events: 2. The 7th was therefore an invitation to tender, 23. From 7 to 12 p.m., the deadline for the submission of applications was 23. Seven. 2010 was the deadline for the submission of applications, 30. 7. a decision on the selection was sent to the Municipality of Ljubljana. So they're chosen. Dearly beloved, I, for the first time, do not know – but we have already made some of this "put through" and probably all those who have ever published or applied for it – to be elected within one month is the decision to choose. Looks like it was in an incredible hurry. Especially for such a large invitation to tender. Here are the mayors who have applied for a number of invitations. In one month it was - yes, in this case it was an effective administration because it was the desire and will to do so. And I wonder if it is the desire and will to do so in many other cases, because it was known in advance. So, 30. 7. The decision to elect or decide that the city council will receive these poor 9 million EUR 400,000 has been issued. 9. 8, so one week after that, a technical inspection and a temporary use permit were issued. And the subject of co-financing, according to Mr Jankovic, is works of construction and craftsmanship. This is said to be truly fantastic – if anyone believes it, I do not – performers can know within one week that they will receive funds, are chosen by the procurement process, complete work and submit documentation that enables them to undergo a technical review and, consequently, obtain a temporary use permit. If you think so, then you're wrong to believe that we believe it or that those who have ever done anything in their lives believe it. One more thing. Your invitation to tender states that "funds cannot be allocated for operations that have already been completed." Well, 30. 7. Further work could have been done, which was completed by 9. 8. when the technical inspection was carried out. In the meantime, there was also an election process, because the one that started the work had to be selected as an contractor in accordance with the law and the legal provision that I had previously read. So, respectable, do not underestimate us so much that we think that this is possible, that this is transparent and that it is not targeted at the same project and that no distortion of choice of potential tenderers and also the restriction of competition has been used. Why is such a panic, or why is such an open and, I would say, strong assistance from the Ministry of Education and Sport to this project in the end, in June 2010? Why was this project not supported as early as 2008, when the government and the minister took office? Why not in 2009? Why, in the end, in July 2010? Because of its failure, the financial structure of the project collapsed because there were no financiers because the sport park was practically built because the value of the investment had increased considerably and additional resources had to be sought. That's why - the investment went down financially. Thus, a public-private partnership was initially envisaged, with the private partner doing all the investment and all the construction works, the public partner, the Municipality of Ljubljana, providing land or carrying out land transfer only after the completion of the project. Initially, the investment of €81 million was envisaged – I am speaking in this narrower part about sports infrastructure, of course, the investment is significantly higher, if we add a private part, the real shopping centre. And, of course, the value of this investment in the public sector has also grown enormously due to the additional works, heating rooms and other areas that we have read a lot about in these months. Well, there's no money left because the investment has grown and private partners have retreated from it. In particular, there was Delta, as well as the tenants of this private work, who did not intervene in such a way as was originally envisaged. Dear Minister, in such a case, public funds must not be allocated. Public funds shall not be allocated unless there is a clear financial structure and there is no clear value of the project. Let one of you tell me who was involved with public funds without knowing who would give public funds, how much the project would eventually cost and who remained the resources to finance this project. In this case, the money was allocated. In this case the money was allocated; and not a little! I wouldn't burden you with how many other complications this project has brought. This is said, in terms of demonstrating economic eligibility, when we have seen that sports areas have been leased more than 10 times less than the amount foreseen in economic eligibility laboratories. Finally, the Minister of the Environment and Space had to organise a regulation on the prevention of light pollution, as the lights in the stadium were excessively polluting the environment and consequently it was necessary to cut through this measure. Finally, we have even found that only craft works, construction works and crafts works, are the subject of the application of the Ljubljana Municipality. This is said to have dissected the project because the value of the project exceeded 45 million and would have fallen out, and then only a fraction of the project was reported. And, ladies and gentlemen, tell me how it is only for construction works that an economic eligibility laboratory can be made if we do not see the whole project; how can only this part of the DIIP project be done, an investment project identification document that is a mandatory annex to each co-financing? By the way, all these documents were made in 2008 or before. It is said that the documentation was old, the project was completely changed and the minister saw no problem in co-financing such a project. So, once again, Minister, we're reading a violation of Article 53 of the Public Finance Act in conjunction with Article 7 of the Public Procurement Act, because you have restricted tenderers in this project, you have fully adapted the tender to one single bidder, you have opposed the principles of restricting competition, the principles of transparency and the principles of equality before the law. It is not possible – and this is a first observation and that you have acted contrary to the 16th Article of the Regulation which gave rise to the Regulation which I read earlier – on the drawback of funds, namely on the implementation of procedures in the use of European cohesion policy funds, particularly on the grounds that it was justified to start an investment before you allocated state resources or the resources of the state and European budget. More than once, it has also appeared in public when it comes to European funds, because it is not a national matter. That's not true! None of the European funds, not for that purpose at all, can be fully guaranteed, 100% from the European budget, because all the resources need to be added, supported either from the European budget or from municipal budgets or from private resources. Let us look at some of the very interesting provisions contained in the concession act itself, which was concluded before the award procedure was carried out, and also before the investor's choice. So, the whole story of the Stožice Sports Park began a long time ago, and before the city municipality carried out this public call, an international public call for a private partner, it produced a document of the Identification of the Investment Project and it had already foreseen a public-private partnership. At that time, the economic viability of this investment was also calculated and net values and internal profitability were also calculated. This was done in 2007. Only in 2008 did MOL choose Grep as a public-private partnership, providing that for the construction of the multi-purpose football stadium, sports hall and accompanying facilities the value of only 81 million without VAT. A public-private partnership act was concluded, where, for example, Article 3 reads: "The private partner will have to fully ensure the financing of the project. For the purposes of... " This is said to have had no guarantee or proof of financial capacity to carry out the project at the time of the signing of the public-private partnership agreement and the implementation of the project. After all, that's what came of it. He had no guarantee, no guarantee! I'm telling you this, it's an obvious MOL, but you've stepped into such a project. Article 3 adds: "For the purpose of project implementation, the public partner will transfer to the private partner the building right to the extent and for the period agreed in the selection process of the private partner. After the completion of the construction and successful acquisition of the facility, the public and private partner will conclude an agreement on the sharing of the floor property in the buildings which will be agreed in the essential elements in the selection process of the private partner." So the land where the multi-purpose football stadium will be built will remain public property. The problem may arise if a private partner burdens the land or buildings built for the purpose of obtaining credit. This is also one big misunderstanding. Article 8 – Conditions of choice. In the process of selecting a private partner, the public partner, MOL, must verify that the private partner is economically and financially and technically and personnelally capable of taking over the tasks of the public-private partnership operators. In the selection process, candidates must demonstrate that they have access to funding for the implementation of the entire project. The private partner still had no financial structure and money to implement. Article 12 – very interesting! The private partner must take the commercial risk of financing the entire public-private partnership project, risk, design, building risk and risks arising from the contract. At the end of the money run out, a state, a respected minister, enters, with a public or clear provision of Article 12. Article 13 also states what is the role of the public partner and what is the task of the private partner. The public partner will take over the co-financing of the construction of municipal and transport infrastructure, as agreed by the Treaty – no more. The public partner will not assume any other financial obligations related to the project and construction with regard to design and construction. What happened was what happened, and the state is helping. So, the matter was originally very well thought out and I personally supported it, I said, look, interesting, maybe even a sample example of public-private partnership, on the one hand we have businessmen who want to get some business opportunity besides some obligations, some shopping center, and on the other hand we have the Municipality of Ljubljana, who wants to get a sports stadium, the sports complex of Stožice. They agreed to cooperate, and the private investor will finance the entire building. The city will help with utilities and traffic. In the end, the city will transfer land to private work owned by a private partner and the state and the city will receive a stadium, in fact in exchange for land and some investments in municipal infrastructure. Nice to see you! You too have probably been pleased to be able to cut the tape without providing one euro because you are not in any budget in the past years. At the end of the day, however, the private partner of Delta withdrew. The other partners were badly sought, they were not found, and the mayor called for help from the state. He called the Minister of Finance for help. He called for the Prime Minister's help. He called for your help. The prime minister said that the state budget would not invest a single cent in this project. Really?Oh, my God! The Minister of Finance, of course, rejected the eccentric infringement of the legislation, where you tried to take some €10 million from his budget reserve to finance the project. You, Minister-respected, have taken the path of "the goal of dedicating the means"; you have followed the path of vehemently, strongly supporting this project. I am sure that no one in this debate room, a project like this, supports him – we all support him. However, you went "a little bit domestic" with public and European funds. That's what we're telling you, Minister of Respect! And we are reading to you, as I have already said twice, and it would not be the third time, perhaps later, if necessary, concrete breaches of the legislation. I think that it is clear to all of us, who are just the legislative branch of the authorities, that they must not, irrespective of the provisions of the law, even if they were not to be used discriminatoryly by public authorities, for a pre-selected tenderer. Yes, they may only be allowed in one case: if the law so specifies or if it is a specific project and then it is also legally defined. For this purpose – yes, and such a project must be in the relevant documents of the Government and Parliament. In this case, it wasn't. So, it's clear to everyone that money probably went out because of this sting of yours to support this project when it was necessary to support and provide money and missing funds because private partners canceled. Last time I listened to myself, I couldn't believe my ears when I heard the mayor's candidate from the Social Democrats sitting in the city council for a few mandates. When asked how much the Municipality of Ljubljana would cost the Stožice project, she said she did not know. He probably cannot know either, because the figures and final values of this project are higher from day to day, and no one knows how much resources will be needed to secure the city budget with such a clairvoyal involvement of private partners. I am convinced that candidates for mayor in the Municipality of Ljubljana can either halve their pre-election promises or share them with 10 because most of the money in the coming years will go to cover the missing funds for the sports park of Sožice. Dear Members, especially honourable Member Tone Anderlich, it is impossible to spend public funds, impossible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u3	Comrade Visjak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u4	is to spend money on co-financing [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u5	Comrade Visjak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u6	projects, unless clearly defined financial structures and clearly defined amounts of funds are identified. [[...]] It can't be! It can't be! This prevents legislation. In this case, that's the way it is, so that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u7	Comrade Visjak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u8	In this case, of course, it is more than obvious that no one knows the final amount of investment in the sports park of Stožice and does not even know how this investment will burden the state budgets, not just the city budget, in the coming years. [[...]] Therefore, when we talk about infringements of specific legislation, the principles of economy, transparency, which are reinforced by the Public Procurement Act and the Public Finance Act, are also likely to be violated, so that projects can only be entered where there are foreseeable and clear financial consequences. I was a mayor for two years, you're some here for decades or even more, and you know how many problems you have by proving the eligible costs when you deliver bills to the ministries, by when the accounts are, by whether they are properly written, by whether they are properly dated, by rejecting you for peaks and commas all. There was no problem, however, if he submits the accounts in 2007, 2008; hence, he will submit the accounts in the coming months by the end of 2010. That's what you say, bills for two years ago. Your Honor, this is a unique, this was not the case! Please don't convince me that this is a coincidence, that everyone had the same chance, that this was not born and entrenched only to that, to one and to the tenderer itself. Of course, there are still many, kind, strange provisions and also selective provisions in the analysis of the invitation to tender. I'll pull some more out. For example, end-users should not change their ownership structure. However, the Public-Private Partnership Treaty states that these changes will take place. It is said that part of the land that is now subject to co-financing will be privately owned; it is said that this part, which is also intended for business, private work or business centre. The purpose of the project itself was good. The aim, as I have already said, was to build public sport infrastructure in a public-private partnership and at the same time a business centre. It was probably planned and all the studies of economic eligibility at a time when there was no global economic crisis in Slovenia and in Europe. That's right. I'm not pulling the parallel. So, at the very beginning everything was fine, then there was a crisis and the private partner was "pulled manually", he stopped, he got out of the project, specifically Delta holding. He was looking for a replacement partner — he's not here today. It is difficult to rent the business premises of this unbuilt business centre, because the consumption of the population in Slovenia has fallen, it brings to the store are lower, we have in store, even in Ljubljana, huge and too much and probably some new commercial giant would upgrade and restore this economic entitlement, but this was not the case and the crisis has done its part. In these cases, the public partner should probably also "take it out manually" and say that the matter has gone wrong for us, the case is victims of the crisis, victims of calculations, calculations from time to time, and the concept needs to be changed, agree with the Ministry of Education on the use of European funds and re-establish the project in a slightly modified form, make new documents and document submitted and implemented. I'm sure it had to be done, but the public partner insisted on the route that went to the abyss. In the abyss, not in nature, the sport park is built, but it will leave the financial upheaval at least three levels: the private partner Grep, in the Municipality of Ljubljana, and will, of course, also partly cover the state budget, as we have seen or as we have seen through this call and the decision on the choice of this partner. All of this could be done with a little more effort, respect for the rules and not least respect for the taxpayer's money. But you've acquired the well-known nitwits of the Ljubljana mayor. You're panicking if you have to do it the way it is, and you have to cut the tape — sometimes before this year's elections. As we move on to this political plan, let me say that it is not about you working with this service for something that will happen. For example, with this support, Mr Jankovic – by the way, what you are doing is very annoying to your candidate. In fact, you have paid for the support that Mr Jankovic has expressed to the ruling troika before the 2008 national elections. You couldn't, of course not, because it would be illogical, unwise, illegal to pay back those 60 million, which Mr Jankovic repeats as crap that his previous government stole from him. You couldn't do that to him because it's illogical, unwise and impossible. But you wanted to help him in every way, and here is one of these ways where you crossed. At the end of this introductory argument, I have focused on some of the key, essential points that will be very difficult, respected. Thus, the regional tender criterion excluded 5 of the 12 statistical regions. And if this is not sufficient to prove that the invitation to tender was restrictive, that it was not the same as all of them, that it was restricting competition and restricting tenderers, then I do not know what the proof is. Moreover, cohesion policy funds are intended to address regional differences. They are usually designed for the poor to reach the average and thus to raise the average. In this case, the poor 10 million euros went in contravention of this principle of cohesion policy. A number of other principles have been raised in all of this, and, dear Minister, we will listen to you carefully. During the debate, I will also involve myself and give detailed reasons for the particulars. Therefore, we are more than underlining that you have violated the law and that you have fulfilled the conditions for the discharge of the National Assembly today. And in the end, that's all: if you think you've justified your lawful conduct with the arrogance with which you responded to the interpolation, you're wrong. You actually disqualified the interpolation investors without seriously dealing with the arguments that I have finally counted today. You have belittled a good part of Parliament, it is two parliamentary groups, which together account for more than one third of the National Assembly, say more than 30 Members, in such a way that you have defied this interpretation and released it to some kind of innkeeper level. Please do not repeat these mistakes in this debate in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. You received the reply of Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšić to the interpretation by letter dated 30 August 2010. I give the floor to Minister Igor Luksic to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Specially welcomed interpellationers, because today we have this honour to deal specifically with a matter that is also tragic on the one hand because the government's budget-making session is currently under way. And from this point of view, this interpolation was really well measured, directed against sport and education, because in the shortest possible time, it is said that when a budget is set, the minister and the ministry are burdened with some unnecessary story. The reply to the interpretation, both to the public and to the written answer, with high regard for this assembly, was given to 26 pages by means of annexes, so that we honored the National Assembly. What the gentleman said in the end qualified interpolation as text, as it is. Actually, I'm also the minister of education. And so the text to work for the example of the young generation is inappropriate. It needs to be qualified as it deserves, and it has not been well prepared. You took some things away. Let's just say that what we found out was a huge instigation and a scandal, that you're saying that the commission was made up of the chief of staff, which is not true, and you know it's not true. And today you didn't take that away! So you don't build things on facts, you don't build on natural facts, but you build on some prejudices and political beliefs because it's incorrect. If we are to raise political culture in this country to a higher level, some new standards should also be introduced. It's already around back for those who are closer to them to read some new interpretations of what this is about, say, in drawing on European funds. In fact, the interpolation touches one single invitation to tender. If the National Assembly in the system of division of power deals with any invitation to tender in such a way as is the competence of the executive branch, then this country will have major difficulties. Let us leave the executive branch of power to carry out our business, and we deal with each other’s jurisdiction. So what is it about drawing funds from European funds? The total ESFR funding for Slovenia amounted to two billion, say, euros. Of these, €78.8 million has fallen into sports recreation infrastructure. So the Ministry of Education and Sport manages it. The funds already allocated were allocated as follows. In 2008, the Ministry issued two calls: one March, one September. That was, by the way, an election year. We are now celebrating two years from the moment the people in Slovenia decided to change, change the government, and I think that after two years we can find that the people have made a good decision. The former government has tendered for two tenders: the first of which is 14 million, the second of which is 7.5 million and 42 million Euros left for Planica. How did this invitation to tender come about? We listened to the proposalers' story as to how they felt this invitation to tender had taken place. But if we go with some metaphor, what does it look like to anyone? Look, the number of pi [[PI]] has been introduced into mathematics as a means to make it easier to calculate or to even calculate the square of the circle. If anyone only thinks so, then he has one discourse, and we in the government have to calculate the square circle. So we have a different logic: "pi-sand" and on the other side of the square circle. So, how did this invitation come about? The Directorate for Sport found that the number of projects selected for these small municipalities, two infrastructure calls – they deviate. Why? Because they don't have the 20% to pay VAT. Seven out of twelve has stepped down. Thus, EUR 9.4 million remained under this heading, i.e. 5 million from unrealised projects, these small projects, 4 million from the failed Planica project and 400 000 because the dynamics of some projects did not go forward. So 9 million 400. What the Minister has done is that he said that these funds should be spent this year, because they remain in the European budget, because of the power that this country has in drawing. The idea that these means can be carried is wrong, because we can carry these funds forward in the next few years, but we will not pump them. That's when we have to draw on other resources. And that's the main problem. And understanding this fact is crucial. And that's what the minister wanted to do to make the funds go up. And the following: how is the invitation prepared? The Ministry had two options at its disposal. For the first time, it is a call – what we have decided – and another mechanism, which is fully legitimate and legal to decide that this is a direct confirmation of the operation. So if we had any favorites, then we'd go into direct confirmation of the operation and we wouldn't have to go into the tender. But we went on a call. Because we knew there were more of these possible applicants. And you know that four of them applied, two of them met the conditions. Two of them met the conditions. What do you say to that? Two of them met the conditions! And a third would have met the conditions if he hadn't gotten involved in some story he had with one of his relationships. So it all goes down. Two met the conditions, not one! [[...]] [[Clutches from benches]] Yeah, 20 could have picked them. Look, this is one thing. Thus, to make it clear that the criteria or conditions have been adapted are completely depressed. If you'd waited for a day to put in an interpolation, you'd have found out that fact, you haven't done it yet, but I can't help you. Look, there's another joke. Two meet and test the knowledge of mathematics. One asks the other what two plus two is. They say he doesn't know. The first one says because you don't know, I'll tell you four. After a while, he asks again what two plus two is. They say he doesn't know again. And the first said that he had told him before, and once again he said unto him, Four. And after a while, he asks him again what two plus two is. And the first one says, "Yes, damn it, you're stupid, I've already told you twice that I don't know, and you're still asking me!" And how long will it take to talk here, to make it clear that two plus two is four. Two have applied, two have fulfilled the conditions, so there is no reason for anyone else in this country to claim that the invitation to tender has been adapted to only one applicant. That's one thing. Another issue is how things are going and how much the Minister is directly involved. It is clear that there is a general picture of people who have never been ministers or heads of government or have been in the National Assembly, that the Minister has a basket of money and then distributes it to his best friends, acquaintances and anyone. This performance can be justified with those who have never been with them, not with those who have ever been ministers. And to spread and support this play, which is wrong! People should be told that this country is regulated and has some procedures to prepare, in this case, invitations to tender. How's the invitation coming? The Ministry prepares itself or the Minister first initiates the procedure; in this process it sets out a number of basic issues: how much money it is to distribute it, the purpose, the sport infrastructure, and the commission which then prepares such an invitation. But look, in cohesion, they're not preparing a call for the Ministry or this commission, they're preparing a draft call. Why? Because it is a management body not a ministry, but a service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional development. So, SVRL and they confirm the invitation to tender, they bear responsibility for the invitation to tender. So, if anything were to be formally wrong or anything, this job is the address. Why? Because the previous government or the Republic of Slovenia has decided that it will be a management body and that all the knowledge or knowledge that Slovenia must have will be concentrated there, how to draw on the resources to actually draw on them, so that everything will be in accordance with the law and regulations. If we conclude this part of the story: already the tendering system prevents the Minister from organizing, tailoring or writing a public invitation to tender to anyone on the skin. He just can't if he wants to. Then, with regard to these regional criteria and so on. The Ministry has now issued three tenders following this perspective, which was a third one. The differences between these tenders fall within two groups. The first are some basic differences that talk about how many funds have been allocated. Once there were 14, once seven, once nine. Other differences are due to improvements in calls for proposals in accordance with regulations and experience. What this call had for the first time and others did not have is that the operation should not be the subject of State aid in order to prohibit double funding. This is a higher standard, what interpolation applicants are surprised to see, this is a higher standard: that it is about increasing training areas, that it is about providing new jobs, that it is about organising sports events at the highest levels, that the value of an investment is over €5 million. Why over €5 million? Because colleagues in the sports department have found that the capacity to draw on the community level for small projects has already proved impossible if just seven municipalities have deviated from using these funds. I would also like to say this when it is said how the Ministry informed the municipalities in June that there were no funds in the state budget. Here are two different things: there are no funds in the state budget and unfortunately, perhaps thanks to this interpolation, they will not be in the following year. Because the minister has to fight the opposition instead of fighting with the finance minister for most of the funds. Secondly, the funds from the European funds, which have their own dynamics, are these 78 million. Of these 78 million we will be able to get another piece, 5 million for these small gyms and congregations. It's already 5 million, and I'm sure we're not going to make it as things are going to be able to pump the entire asset for Planica, and we're going to be able to redistribute it here as well. Thus, around 7 million can be made available for the second year of funding for sport infrastructure and the municipalities will be able to report this as they start their new budgets. That's this $5 million. Why is the upper value 45? Because 50 million is conditioned by EU rules, we should go to confirmation through the European Commission, which would make it impossible for us to draw on these funds this year. With regard to public institutions, the fact that it was written among the conditions that the notifiers should also provide for a space for public institutions. Not only are these two public institutions and Mr Marko was not the only one talking about how he was dealing with someone. You know, these deals, who's set up with who, they're huge. And now, if we were to build a policy on what someone is saying, what they think they are doing, then this country would have great problems, much bigger problems than it already has because of the crisis. Here you can see how this regional coverage of sports facilities works. Very good! Slovenia acts very well here and covers all areas correctly; also stadium, including football courts. What's still open is, say, swimming pools, here's the thing. Therefore, the conditions of the invitation to tender of ESSR 3, of which today is the subject, have not been adapted to a certain investor. The differences between calls for proposals go in the direction of ensuring the highest possible legality and increasing the number of potential applicants. So what this regional criterion has introduced is that in fact everyone has been able to apply, more than before, so he has opened things up, not closed. And most importantly, once again, I repeat, you have signed up for two perfect roles. So it's possible to always say what is also considered an argument in philosophy, but I don't know if it's right that it's valid in the National Assembly. If the facts do not fit the interpretation – theory – so much worse for the fact. But I do hope that there is still enough common sense in the National Assembly to overcome the facts. Two bets, please, two bets! Then let's go. Control. I think it's the control that the National Assembly exercises through interpeel. See, the call for tender is supervised by the National Assembly. The 11 institutions have at least established this political system, which ensures that supervision is carried out, one part at the time of creation and one part afterwards. 11 institutions! And you thought it was necessary to include the National Assembly now. Why the cannons over the mosquito? There is no need, if there is any need for intervention, for now. The matter has been so much under scrutiny, so many people, this knowledge that Slovenia has at its disposal, involved, that it is difficult to say that more can be engaged here. So, big sports facilities are part of the adopted European and national policy; the national project was opened in 2007 for 2008, 2009, 2010, so there is no problem here either. So, if anyone thinks or on the basis of this, that the Ministry or the whole Government is advocating some inconsistent development of Slovenia, or that it is biased towards one area, you can see from the presentation that this is not the case; that it is striving for consistent development and that the results are here. Now it's also about the legal basis. In your speech or interpretation of interpolation, you have already softened the obvious, but still it comes from an oral explanation that there is not somehow a clear distinction between public procurement and the drawing of funds from cohesion funds. This is a difference, these are two different principles that run under different laws. It's a public order when the government orders some goods, buys them, and becomes the owner. In drawing from cohesion funds, it is a call for proposals where the Government shares funds, and that is why other rules also apply. Therefore, the interpretation is built on, in my opinion, ignorance or lack of knowledge of the process of drawing up calls, the whole process of drawing European funds, and therefore it also carries out the wrong conclusions. I am confident, Mr President, that the applicants will come to understand their error on the basis of this and support the continued work of the Minister of Education and Sport, because he has been doing well, and, last but not least, with a visit to the SDS Group for the views that we have exchanged, I wish that we are close, that there are no significant differences between us and that this remains. The Minister of Education and Sport is the minister of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and there is no reason for anyone, any region, any municipality to neglect and so is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This year, in early June, the Ministry of Education and Sport of the Republic of Slovenia sent a notice to all municipalities that there will be no call for co-financing of investments in sport infrastructure this year. In the Slovenian People's Party, we were bitter over the breakup that took place around the sudden new call for the Ministry of Education and Sport of the Republic of Slovenia to co-finance the sports recreation infrastructure worth 9.4 million euros. That the call was nothing special, then Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic confirmed for the media, who even publicly explained that he did not see any obstacles to obtaining this money with his sports park project in Stožice. It was therefore only a matter of time before they could find a way in the current government to secure the money of the project in Stožice. After we have made it difficult to prevent the looting of budgetary reserves, when no normal market-oriented bank wanted to participate in the financing of such a weak financial structure, this government or today's victim, Minister of Education and Sport Dr Lukšič, has embarked on a political path to provide state aid. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are appalled at the way in which the institution of public tender was grossly played. This was made up to the maximum extent possible in such a way that the project was the only possible candidate in the Cologne, since the ceiling of the allocations for each project was equal to the amount of the resources awarded, i.e. in practice, that all the funds can be allocated to one project. The project corresponding to the tender documentation also had to be completed by the end of this year, which means that only the investments already started could be registered. Back then, in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we quickly flew over the projects that were in the field of sport infrastructure implementation and it was clear that there was only a park project in Stožice during the tendering phase. It therefore pledged a co-financed project with European funds, which is not fully legally guided at all. In the worst case scenario, all of this may lead to unjustified use of money from the European Union funds and the request of the competent authorities for the reimbursement of funds. That is why we proposed in July this year that the whole matter be taken under scrutiny by both the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Office for Budgetary Control, because we are outraged that no one is still responsible for their reckless decisions in this country. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it does not seem right for us that the state is looking for all possible ways and that it is carrying out financial fluctuations at the expense of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia just to solve the complications of the excessive promises of a mayor. We are disappointed because there was no response from the competent institutions, although when the results of the Ministry of Education and Sport of the Republic of Slovenia's call for sport co-financing in recreational infrastructure were published, it is evident that all our warnings were still well founded, since the Ministry was expected to choose only one project, this is the project of the multi-purpose football stadium Stožice, proposed by the Municipality of Ljubljana, and it was the only one dedicated to all the funds requested. Other projects, however, were expected to be rejected by the Ministry or not addressed enough points. The Ministry of Education and Sport of the Republic of Slovenia with Dr. Lukšić led all other Slovenian municipalities to deceive them only a few weeks before the call was announced that the call for the co-financing of investments in sport infrastructure this year will unfortunately not, and then soon thereafter the call for proposals will still be published and the funds will be allocated to only one applicant. So, obviously, the one that was actually looking for the invitation to tender. It is therefore clear in all respects what is the way in which the Government and Mr Lukšič are working, and it is clear that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support all this interpretation. However, we think that the replacement of a minister alone would not change anything significantly, but of course we cannot support such a way of working. However, given that the Minister's work is clearly supported by the Prime Minister, we ask him once again how he will act to ensure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also provide other Slovenian municipalities with co-financing of sport-recreational infrastructure this year, as well as co-financing of schools and sports facilities that were destroyed in storms two years ago, to which the previous government has announced aid and whose number has probably increased in the current floods. Finally, the Slovenian People's Party Members feel that Slovenia and Ljubljana certainly need a modern sports facility such as the multi-purpose football stadium of Stožice, and that it has obviously had to be completed, but it is irresponsible that the Municipality of Ljubljana has already started without a closed financial structure and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been saving it through one ministry through the harsh play of the public tendering institution. Neither the Government of the Republic of Slovenia nor the individual ministry, nor the individual minister, should afford it, so we will support the proposed interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u14	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! For 13 hours it is intended for interpolation, but we did not devote any specific debates or even attention to them in our group, as we have estimated that there is no need for any extreme deepening in matters that may not even be subject to the assessment of the responsibility of Minister Igor Lukšić through the interpolation process. I do not want to be disrespectful to the applicants, but I cannot help but say that we have dealt with better interpretation in our Parliament in a substantive sense. The proposal for interpretation is based on three reasons for the dismissal of Minister Igor Lukšić. In explanation of the three actions identified: the suspicion of adapting the tender terms, the suspicion of abuse of the official position or rights and the creation of inequalities before the law contains a proposal based on the number of points, judging by the extensive arguments to be made by the applicant's assessment of a sufficiently solid basis for justified responsibility and the subsequent discharge of the Minister. On the contrary, the Minister's response is consistently prepared: it contains definitions and comments on individual explanatory points, it provides thorough and reasoned answers to all three reasons for interpolation, and it contains annexes to the documents related to the procedure for the implementation of the invitation to tender. As a result, it could be said that interpellation is more an elephant than a broken foundation, because, on the basis of the Minister's comprehensive replies to the obvious, it is more than not clear that the findings are unfounded. We can also ask whether the overall actual state of the invitation to tender for the project of the Stožice Sports Park is even known or whether it is only a matter of unnecessary excitement and dust raising in the Slovenian public. Last but not least, it is worth noting that this project has been welcomed by the Slovenian public, and we must agree that it is a project of Slovenia and not of any individual, as well as if it has so much emphasis on possible links, such or different natures. In this regard, according to the applicants so controversial, the call for proposals was sought by the Ministry to use the European Regional Development Fund's funds and, as a result of an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013, was confirmed as a national competent authority for the allocation of European cohesion funds by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy. And while we are already drawing on European funds, let me remind you that there is a great deal of love for readings on a slow and inefficient system of drawing on European money, and I think we can only talk about this obvious as the past. I cannot say that Ljubljana is privileged to other regions through this project and invitation to tender, as has been the case in previous years and in the previous mandate, with the aim of building and modernising sport infrastructure across Slovenia. And perhaps, during the calls issued at that time, we could also find one who could be discriminated against, adjust conditions and more. Before I conclude with our Group's position, let me say that the Minister's comprehensive written reply has convinced us that the indications in the interpretation are incomplete and do not give any reason for his political responsibility. Of course, as laymen, we cannot judge the rightness of the jury — not any other kind of invitation, documents, procedures. We have competent institutions in our country for such assessments. In the DeSUS Group of Interpellations against the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić or the decision on his discharge will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u16	Nice hello to you all! My friend Vizjak has already said a few things, so I won't talk about them and I won't say it again. However, I think it is necessary to open our eyes elsewhere, in other areas. It is important to realize that the money — over 9 million — that went for one project, for the stadium in Stožice, which we need, and it is true that we have received it, but in the project itself, the question arises why there are no other tracks around, not only football, that it is intended for only one sport, and when the interest in this sport is realized, I do not know what we are going to do with this stadium. In short, there is a mistake at the very beginning, which the ministry should certainly also be alerted to. If we look at the amount of money that went to the stadium, it can be compared to the resources that the Ministry of Education and Sport gives to all areas of sport. This is 8.2 million euros, which is significantly less than almost 9.2 million euros. And if we look at the fact that this year the Ministry has provided only 4.5 for top sports – that is to say four and a half million euros – this is damn sad. And next year, it is expected that only 66% of this year's total will be a top sport. So, substantially less than those three million for the University of Maribor, which will never be and where money is definitely thrown away, just wherever it is. The amount for sport is reduced every year. And already this year, less than half a million euros are allocated for youth sport and sports recreation for citizens. And in that money are the ones we should get, the campers, the Mountain Association, the Falcon Association, the Swimming Association, and other relationships. On the other hand, the Ljubljana stadiums marketed by the Tivoli Institute need to pay EUR 600 per hour of renting the stadium. Let's say Kodeleva, who doesn't know what stadium, but I do remember that sometimes -- or we did -- we could kick the ball for free on all these facilities. How should a new person be raised, how should a healthy and sports-aware youth be raised, if we have to pay 600 euros for one hour of renting such a facility. It's fucking sad. On the other hand, if we look at the fact that the Alliance for Sport of Children and Youth has received €160,000 for some analysis of the national programme of sport and for writing the law on sport. I would say that if we already have the Ministry of Sport, at least the law will write this institution, not someone paid from the outside. And in order to cover matters, financial resources go not from the Ministry of Sport, but from the Ministry of Public Administration. But the analysis that these gentlemen are doing will only take place until 2007 when there is certainly no recession. Then what? What about today? What now? None of that! One wonders how and why we go here and set up or set up the Ministry of Education and Sport, when money goes elsewhere. After all, if we look at it, it might make a lot more sense if this money were to be given to some other organizations that really need this funding. But if nothing else, let's say Prezhich Voranec's elementary school in Ljubljana, which has been free for years and years for 80,000 euros to have a school kitchen, they don't have it and they probably won't have it – at least until this government does. And if we compare how someone actually works for Slovenian sport, we see that the Sports Foundation contributes significantly more money to sports organisations across Slovenia, as it distributes around €13 and a half million a year – the ministry is not interested in moving forward. Let's say where the ministry could put it – I'll read a list of this year's wishes of some really needed parts of Slovenia that need money. For example, the National Court of Justice of the United States of America 30 000 Euros; the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court ofJustice , theCourt , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , theCourt , the Court ofJustice , theCourt , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court of Justice and theCourt , the Court ofJustice , theCourt , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , theCourt , the Court ofJustice , theCourt , the Court ofJustice , the Court of theCourt , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court of theCourt , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , theCourt , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court of Justice and the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court of Justice and the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court ofJustice , the Court of the Court of Justice and the Court of the Court of Justice and the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of theCourt For the renovation of the track and equipment in Novi Gorica – EUR 25 000 787; the Aviation Union for the construction of hangar in Postojna – EUR 8 000 208; the Football Club Radomlje, the Youth Football School, from which the future football elite of the Republic of Slovenia is also expected to grow, for the football field with artificial grass in Radomlja – EUR 92 000 800; the Alpine ski training range Lom-Macesnovec – EUR 82 000 70; the Sports Society Podgorje for the construction of sports facilities – EUR 20 000 590; the TVD Partizan Žirovnica for the adaptation of the hall – EUR 27 000 770. Then again the University of Ljubljana for the rehabilitation and energy optimisation of sports halls – EUR 40 000 781; for the technological modernisation of sports halls of the Faculty of Sport – EUR 21 000 290; the Kranj Institute for the rehabilitation of the annual swimming pool in Kranj – EUR 12 000 756; the Ravne Alpine Club in Koroškem for the reconstruction and expansion of the high climbing wall at the Prežihov Voranc Primary School in Ravne – EUR 31 000 72; the Gymnastical Union of Slovenia for the equipment of the regional centres of the Gymnastic Union of Slovenia – EUR 31 000 114; the Inline Union of Slovenia, they want an official basis for in-line hockey – EUR 30 000; the Kajaka Association of Slovenia for the construction of assembly facilities in Tacno – EUR 30 thousand; the Koskar Association of Slovenia; the acquisition of mini basketball baskets for children – EUR 20 thousand. One would expect these figures to somehow be thrown into the heads of not only the Minister of Education and Sport, but in the heads of the entire ministry, and that in this case he would do something else, but not so much money he would devote to a single project that was not even designed to serve more sports, but only one sport. Next, it's not over. The local community of Volarje and the recreational society of Lahnica in Volarje – €31 000 72; the local community of Zatonmin for the construction of the multi-purpose playground in Tatonmin – €14 000 600; then the Municipality of Ajdovščina for the football stadium in Ajdovščina – €44 000 812. Interesting comparison: Ajdovščina 44 000, Ljubljana over 9 million euros. Municipality of Braslovče, construction of the Gomilsko – 25 000 258 euros; Municipality of Destrnik, the school playground, phase two 25 thousand 800 euros; Municipality of Gornja Radgona for the renovation of the basketball court at the Trata School Centre in Gornja Radgona – 10 thousand 430 euros; Municipality of Kobarid for the renovation of the tennis court in Kobarid – 12 thousand 187 euros; Municipality of Krško, rehabilitation of the Brestanica Sports Centre, here is a little more, 137 thousand 188 euros, and that is far away from 9 million and so many hundreds of thousands of euros. Municipality Log Dragomer for the extension of the football field in Log sport park – €18 000 564; Municipality of Miklavž on the Drava field, construction of climbing walls, small climbing walls – €10 000 800; Municipality of Odanci, walking trail and trim trail on the brook Črnec – €30 000. I think that these paths are very important, because if we want to keep us all together, so that we can work until the 1980s, 1990s or 103s, we will still have such a hell of a walkway that we will be as close to each other as we can, because otherwise we will be buried before – of course, gentlemen of the current government. Municipality Podčetrtek, construction of the sport playground Přístava pri Mestinj – EUR 20 000 742; Municipality of Ribnica on Pohorje, construction of the beach volleyball court Josip dol – EUR 11 000 522; Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, construction of the multi-purpose playground in Vrhole – EUR 29 000 700; Municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania for sports playground at Šmartno primary school – EUR 7 000. Once again the Šmartno municipality of Lithuania for the three trail Bogenšperk – 4 000 euros. You may think, even twice they demand from the congregation of Šmartno near Lithuania! How dare they do this together, but it's 11,000 euros! How dare they ask twice for so much money! That's right. I don't understand. Tržič Municipality, the renewal of the basketball court and the athletic track at Križe Primary School – EUR 28 000 033; Triglav Ski Club, Kranj would like 30 000 euros; Závrec Sports Society for Sports Course – EUR 28 000; Velenje Sports Association for building a wheelchair for disabled people – EUR 15 000 399; GIP Sports Association Šiška would like to rebuild the roof at the sports centre and would need EUR 21 000 513. Sports company Selca for sport park, for multi-purpose playground – EUR 29 000 805; Sport recreational company Ponikve for the construction of multi-purpose sports field – EUR 28 000 600. Interestingly, for one stadium only for football, 9 million and a few hundred thousand, to build a multi-purpose sports field 28 thousand 600, of course only this year, because they will definitely need some more money next year and next year. Maybe they've put something in there too. You can see how they work with their brains. Unfortunately, these requests are largely not heard. Association of Maribor Sports Associations Brannik for athletic sports trail – EUR 14 000 400. Then the volleyball court, as well as the same Association of Maribor Sports Associations – €31 000 72. Municipality of Slovenj Gradec for the renovation of the existing sports areas of the annual swimming pool Slovenj Gradec – €9 000 39. I am sorry that Mayor Slovenj Gradac is not here right now to hear this information, maybe he doesn't know it, but when he's already in the coalition, I think he could raise his voice in this regard, and ask for, say, nine million and so many hundred thousand euros, at least a little more, 50,000 euros, say. This would certainly not break the structure, but it is true that many would then say again, but why does it go away 50 thousand when they have to stay in one piece in one place? Municipality of Cerkno, construction of the multi-purpose sports playground Cerkno – 11 000 824 euros; Municipality of Krško, renovation of the Sport Recreation Centre Dolško – 23 000 200 euros; Municipality of Štora Sports Course at the Štora School – 27 000 678 euros; Municipality of Tržič has two more wishes – the mayor, you listen – [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u17	Comrade Jelinčič – no controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u18	€23 000 401 and once again for the renovation of the Ravna Basin – €32 000 711. [[...]] And so on. Sport Union of Slovenia for the renovation of the Ilirija facility in Vodnikova in Ljubljana – 34 000 EUR 800. Playground for basketball, sport in Maribor 6 thousand 250 euros. Sport company Partizan Boštanj for adaptation at home TVD Partizan Boštanj – EUR 20 000 500; National community Blatna Brezovica for construction of a handball field in Blatna Brezovica Sport Park – EUR 30 000 990; Municipality Velenje, sports park – EUR 87 000; Municipality of Bistrica near Sotla, covering the outdoor sports field – 4 000 226, which is significantly less than our builders require for overlaying various roads and flicking various holes in roads. The Municipality of Cerknica for the Rakek Sports Hall is located – 270 000 513 euros; Kamnik Municipality, Šmartno Sports Course in the Tuhinska Valley – 30 000 euros; Lendava Municipality, the lighting of the Lendava Stadium – 44 000 458 euros; Majšperk Municipality, the Majsperk Recreation Centre – 7 000 727 euros; Makola Municipality, the Makola Football Course – 21 000 250 euros; Metlik Municipality, the completion of the Dobravice Sports Course – 12 thousand 52 euros; Moravske Toplice Municipality, the organisation of sports infrastructure in Martjanci – 15 thousand euros. Then the Municipality of Mozire, the construction of a playground for volleyball – 30 thousand 389 euros; the Municipality of Pivka, the Juršče court – 15 thousand euros; the Municipality of Radenci, the rehabilitation of outdoor sports playgrounds – 20 thousand 435, the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, the construction of a school playground with artificial mass, a multi-purpose playground at the elementary school of Pohorski Battalion – 30 thousand 360 euros; the Municipality of Zreče, the arrangement of the playground for volleyball, football, handball, basketball. In short, for four sports, €19 000 477; the Domžale volleyball club, the rehabilitation of the beach volleyball court – €15 000; the Mountain Union of Slovenia, the sign leaving the mountain trail with the guide boards – €22 000 830. And I think it's very important, at the end of this year, we had a huge number of dead mountaineers and it would make sense to have at least these tables set. The Sokol Association of Slovenia, a gymnastics tool for the project of the National Sokol Sports School – €10 000, but we have people on the gymnastics tool who achieve global results, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I'm not going to read all of them because there's too much of that, but let's give it a little more. The Ravna Sports Institute in Koroška, the overcoating and arrangement of several dedicated asphalt courts – €18 000. Mala Sunday Sports Society, reconstruction of existing sports areas in the sports centre – EUR 20 000; Pecin Sports Society, modernisation of the multi-purpose sports field in Beijing – EUR 2 000 970. Man, they want a lot, they want a lot, they do, they do, they want almost 3,000 euros! The Sports Society of Prevorje, the construction of a tennis and balining playground – €8 000 325; the Idrija Running Ski Club would like to restore the running tracks in the Army, which is why they want to have €31 000 250. The rowing club Argo, this is the regional rowing centre in Izola, uses 31 000; the Jesenice Sports Institute, for the sports hall under Mežaklje, for the eastern part – 100,000 euros; the Association for Auto Sport Slovenia for the regulation of the Gaj Competition Line at Cerkljah near Krk, where there was once 50 thousand 460 euros. And so on and so on and so on and so forth. In short, money that could be spent differently, according to what we want in our country, that we have a healthy generation and that we also have some more pensioners, not those who will receive a thousand euros of pension as promised by Mr Erjavec, but those who will survive in these difficult circumstances, so that they can breathe well for at least a few more hours and live as well as they do. We support interpellation because we also signed it. And until, not only in this ministry, but until at all in the government, in this government, there will be no understanding for the basic needs of our citizens and citizens, both old and young, who sit there, so long will be nothing, but we will wait two more years, and then, gentlemen, the time will be clear to Kranj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we have carefully read the interpretation against the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšić, and his response to it. During our conversation with him and his associates, we took note of further clarifications. The perceptions in the interpolation relate to the non-transparent distribution of money and that the National Assembly, as the custodian of the budget and the taxpayer's money, must examine each such suggestion carefully. LDS has always stood up for this. When we read the text of the interpolation, it clearly shows that the interpretation is based on certain assumptions which, in our opinion, the applicants fail to prove, even though they are persistently repeating them. The text of the interpolation is also perfected, poorly prepared and so underestimated for this assembly, but this is already seen from previous interpretations, when the content does not seem to matter, but only consider short-term objectives. Interpellation is time-bound before the local elections, and in our opinion this is what the proponents wanted to achieve: to change the public's opinion or what public polls show. With such interpolations as today's, however, the National Assembly's importance of the interpolation Institute diminishes and devalues it, which is extremely poor for the development of parliamentary democracy in the country. In our position in LDS we will not embark on how the project was led in the Municipality of Ljubljana, how or not the city councillors and saints were familiar with it. In LDS, we are surprised that the city council has not opened a debate on all the issues that are the subject of the Ljubljana Municipality and today points are mentioned in the interpretation that should be clarified there. In the LDS, we note that many points in the interpretation do not apply to the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Lukšič, but that the promoters of the interpretation try to combine all the irregularities and problems that are happening around us and which none of us deny; from the crisis of construction and non-payment of accounts, to the perceptions of school meals and free kindergartens for the other and the next children, although to mention this – and for example, in the new School Diet Act it is clear that this represents greater social sensitivity between students and students, and creates greater fairness in the distribution of public money. In doing so, we agree, of course, that the construction of the Stožica Sports Park as the largest construction site in Slovenia, combined with the construction crisis, has also demonstrated the repeated unfair treatment of workers. Some of this was also recorded by the work inspectorate. In this case, the problem of non-payment of subcontractors and the like also appeared. These are all real problems, but they do not belong to the content of the interpretation against Minister Lukšić. We believe that this suggests that the proponents would like to interpret someone else who is formally unable to do so. If we have counted correctly, there are more than 30 of those who have no connection with him or the Ministry among all the above-mentioned reports. This gives rise to political insinuations without any evidence, comments on the time frame, construction and its delays, discussions on which partner has ever entered or stepped out of the public-private partnership, and on the business decisions of private companies, discussions on the decisions of banks, how they have decided on credits, discussions on the quantity of commercial areas in Ljubljana, in interpreting the Minister's task of drawing up a list of unpaid and overdue liabilities to subcontractors in the construction project of the Sožica Sports Park, all of which were apparently subordinated to the local elections in Ljubljana, revealing contracts between participants in the project, listing visits to the labour inspection and their findings. Therefore, it is, of course, possible to understand the Minister's response to such complex interpretation. At the interview at the Liberal Democracy Club, we told him that his response in the first part was quite unusual, but, as it is said, it is possible to understand this in view of the unargumented accusations that appear in the interpretation and according to the quality of the text of the interpolation itself. Regarding the quality of the text, it should be clarified that interpellation is divided into three parts, but the same accusations appear and repeat themselves in all parts, without proper order and logic; and if we repeat that the interpretation is written superficially, here we also refer to the vocabulary and basic concepts of writing when, for example, you are looking for a verb in a certain indent and so on. In all the excitement of proving the burdensome facts for Mr. Minister, I will read only one of the texts from the interpretation, where in the 24th point in the excitement of demonstrating the intensive efforts of this government to find additional financial resources, I will read, "...but it is worth recalling the intensive activities of Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Luksic in the last months of this year related to the search for funds for the Stožice Sports Park project" and so on. So, we're talking about the last months of this year, even though I think we're only in these months right now, and these last months are just coming. Of course, we could continue to read such interpolation flowers. However, in the second part of the response to interpolation, the Minister responds with all seriousness to all charges and allegations and rejects them in a reasoned manner, indicating his serious attitude towards the interpolation institute. However, if we are trying to look at what is supposed to be obvious or refers to the invitation to tender led by the Ministry of Education and Sport, and thus to Minister Lukšić, we would point out three things in the LDS. From the response to the interpellation, it is clear that if the Ministry of Education and Sport did not go into the call for the selection of co-financing operations for investment in sportrecreation infrastructure, 3 these European funds would remain untapped. For following the 2008 call, 7.4 million euros remained and had to be spent by the end of this year. On the basis of this fact, it is also possible to understand the content of the invitation to tender and the conditions therein. Under the operational programme to which this call relates, projects in the public sports recreation infrastructure are co-financed, which will offer the possibility of creating new products for tourism, in particular for the implementation of healthy lifestyle programmes in the field of sports recreation, which requires a regulated environment and suitable facilities. The funds are intended to co-finance facilities of a national or regional nature, with a direct impact on the development of tourism. The facilities must be suitable for all categories of users, both sports, sports and youth, quality and high-quality sport, as well as for organizing various events that attract a large number of visitors. In our view, it is also not in line with the claims made by the applicants who wish to show that funds for this call could go to local projects and to co-finance sport infrastructure. The fact is that the letter sent to the Slovenian municipalities in June 2010 is a call for the necessary investment in sport infrastructure and that in 2010 there will be no call for these facilities due to a lack of money relates to the State budget. So, these are two-year standing calls, while in the case of the call for European funds from the European Regional Development Fund. In any event, the funds for the tenders could not be transferred for other purposes. This needs to be made clear to the Slovenian public and the local communities, because in interpretation, there are repeated indications that the Ministry of Education and Sport could devote this money to local communities only if the will was expressed for this. Applicants shall further read out the call for concealment and the deadlines for the preparation of the tender documentation and the conditions to be written on the skin of one project only. The fact that more offers have been made to the Ministry of Education and Sport, four of which are both substantively and formally complete, in itself detracts from the interpellationers. Furthermore, the applicants in paragraph 50 of the interpolation themselves say that the invitation to tender was not a secret, which means that the invitation to tender was addressed and written. Of course, the invitation to tender was also published in the Official Journal and on the websites of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which are the usual procedures for such invitations. Interpellation writers also prove that they do not know how to share these funds. Thus, it is also evident in the interpretation that it was a tender under the Public Procurement Act and that it was a violation of that. In response, we can only say that the invitation to tender is not a public contract, so the invitation to tender was not prepared under the Public Procurement Act, but on the basis of the Budget Implementation Act, because it is a matter of awarding public funds. Therefore, the basis cannot be the Public Procurement Act, because it is not the procurement of construction and equipment services, which defines the Public Procurement Act, but the Law on the implementation of the budget. At the time of interpretation, we would like to emphasise in the LDS that Slovenia needs modern sports facilities. If we want to organise top sports and cultural and entertainment events, we need appropriate sports recreation infrastructure. Ljubljana also needs several sports areas per inhabitant as the capital. We know that since the construction of Tivoli Hall, there have been no more State investments in sports infrastructure. The Sožice Sports Park, together with the football stadium in the Human Garden in Maribor and other sports facilities in Slovenia, provides a European standard for playing football, as well as a standard for viewers with regard to the quality of the competition as well as for safety. New sports facilities, of course, serve other activities such as concerts, events and the like. These are the events people want. So far, they have attended large concerts in Zagreb, Vienna and elsewhere. The events also represent the promotion of our country and, above all, such facilities also bring new jobs. In view of the above, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will not support interpretations against Minister Luksic, because in our opinion it is not justified in any of these points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the 1960s, Marko Schlajmer, Republic Secretary for Urbanism, made plans for a new stadium in Stožice. In those years, the old and the young read Saint-Exupéry's Little Prince and the most frequently cited statement from this cult narrative reads: "The being is hidden to the eyes." In the Group of Social Democrats, we argue that the essence of the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education and Sport is not hidden, so we declare that the proposed decision requiring the discharge of Dr Igor Lukšić from the role of Minister of Education and Sport will not be supported because we believe that the Minister is working well and responsibly, but also because the three reasons for the discharge are not the essence of this interpretation. The substance of the interpretation is also not in 69, more precisely 68 points of explanation of the discharge requirement. The minister's main sin is to call for the co-financing of investment in sportrecreation infrastructure III, from which the alleged creation of inequalities before the law is expected to grow. It is more than obvious that the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Conduct is not at all essential for interpolation investors, because it has allowed the call to draw on cohesion funds that would remain unused and would therefore be returned to the European budget, as some selected project managers have deviated from investment. For investors, it is essential to deal with interpretation in the National Assembly because all steps towards it indicate that its treatment was planned just before the local elections. Unfortunately, they have thus undermined the call of former Minister Milan Zver, who stressed in mid-2006 that he believed in the construction of the stadium in Ljubljana, and that the stadium should not be used for pre-election purposes. For the Group of Social Democrats, it is an important national consensus on the importance of sport, which many consider to be the best representative of the Slovenian state in the world. This is based on numerous sports achievements in the Olympics and other sports competitions. According to the number of winning medals per population, we were the third country in the world at the Olympic Games in Beijing and Vancouver, we are the smallest country in the world that has been ranked in the finals of the World Cup in football, the World Cup in basketball and Group A of the World Hockey. Let us not forget the achievements of Dejan Zavc and many top athletes, who are an example for all generations. 57% of the population is involved in continuous and occasional sports activities and we are moving in step with Scandinavian countries. The fundamental problem of Slovenian sport is financing and the question is whether financial capabilities follow our ambitions in sport. In Slovenia, there are 81% of private-source financing and 19% of public-sector funding, with an average of 72% of private-sector and 28% of public-sector funding in the European Union. For the Group of Social Democrats, the key question is how the Minister implements the guidelines adopted by the Coalition Agreement, which are found in the Sport Active Slovenia chapter. We have laid down increased quantities and quality of sports education for each individual in the entire educational system as a condition for the healthy development of young people from kindergarten to university. The aim should be to include 85% of children and young people in the relevant sports programmes, including the number of top athletes. It is an orderly or improved system for awarding top athletes. The Ministry is preparing a national sport programme by 2020 and an appropriate amendment to the Sports Act. In the last paragraph, we read: We will define national sport infrastructure as an object of national importance, we will adopt a national implementation space act for them and, if necessary, resolve ownership issues through active land policy measures. Well, yeah, we'll also pass the law on the Nordic Center. Substantially difficult situations in which Slovenia has suffered from the recession have also reduced investment opportunities. Let's see how the investment in the city halls moved. The data is eloquent. I will quote the rounded amounts for the period 2005-2008 and for the period 2009-2010: Maribor – EUR 4 million 700 000, during this second period 611 000; Ptuj – EUR 950,000, now EUR 705 000; Koper – EUR 240 000, now EUR 180 000; Celje – EUR 1 million, now EUR 400,000; Murska Sobota – EUR 850 000, now EUR 240 000; Slovenj Gradec – EUR 600,000, now EUR 40 000; Nova Gorica – 255,000, now nothing; New City – 200 thousand, now nothing; Ljubljana – EUR 160,000, now; Kranj 150 000, now 55 000 and Velenje – in both periods of zero. The average investment for the period 2005-2008 is a million and a few euros, the average for 2009-2010, of course not for the whole year 2010, and 210 000 euros. That these are not exactly appropriate or expected investments, it is also quite clear. It has already been mentioned that investors rely on the call for co-financing of investments in sportrecreation infrastructure III from the European Regional Development Fund. Let me mention that the Minister's reply to the interpellation is accompanied by a comprehensive tendering document, from which I will mention only the 22nd point of the invitation to tender, which says: "The submission of the application means that the applicant has become aware of the content of the invitation to tender and agrees with it." Some information on the timing of the invitation to tender and the interpolation. The invitation to tender started on 2 July 2010. On 12 July, the leader of the SDS Group announced that an interpolation would be ready by the end of the week. On 14 July, it extended until the end of July. On 23 July, it was the last day of the call, and on 29 July, an interpretation was tabled by the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party. The invitation to tender was published only on 2 August. Therefore, investors could not wait for the decision, they were already aware of it before the publication of the choice and, of course, the purpose was also fully clear. How are things with the short notice? Since the funds need to be spent by the end of this year, the deadline is understandable, and that is not too short, they prove four applications that have arrived within the deadline. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that the deadline is in line with the practice of flight. I've got five invitations to tender, and the deadlines range from 17 days to 55 days for one of the toughest, so to speak, calls. The dynamics of spending on sport infrastructure between 2007 and 2013 for the envisaged EUR 67.2 million are linked to Slovenia's absorption capacity, which means that the Ministry of Finance orders the share envisaged for European work to be absorbed, including the corresponding amount from the integral resources. It is therefore necessary to use the funds envisaged during the current year. About the invitation to tender. The conditions are the same for everyone. Four roles have arrived, two substantively and formally perfect. The condition of the value of the project was the same for all, it was met by all. Regional development funds are not the means for statistical regions and Slovenia takes part in these calls as one region. Green light for implementation was given as the managing authority by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local development and regional policy. It also identified whether the proposed instrument, i.e. the invitation to tender, was in line with the criteria. It is not disputed that among the criteria to favour the Central Slovenian region are also the proportion of exercise areas per capita and so far funding from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the document, which is the basis for the selection of programmes submitted by Slovenia under the government of Janez Janša to the European Commission – this is an operational programme for strengthening regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013 – justifies the priority of sportrecreation infrastructure as an indication of the low proportion of sports areas per capita as one of the key problems which, I say, "does not allow this area to be included in services and tourist offer to an appropriate extent". Therefore, the selection of criteria is entirely logical, justified and in line with the strategic documents in the field of European funds drawn up by the previous government. In addition, I should like to reiterate that the Ministry of Education and Sport, instead of a public invitation to tender, could choose an instrument of direct confirmation and directly conclude a contract to co-finance this facility, which you call "a favorite project". We believe that funding from the European funds is justified and has been foreseen, as mentioned earlier, by the government. Indeed, there have been some changes in the 2008 budget, where the EUR 10 million allocated for the stadium, which was then called the Leon Štuklja Stadium in Ljubljana, was not then distributed. We could also talk about the rebalancing of the budget for 2008 and then the provisions of the 2009 balance. The Operational Programme for strengthening regional development potentials 2007-2013 can also read: "Developmental priority" – the integration of natural and cultural potentials – "focuss mainly on investment projects of national importance, namely tourism, cultural monuments or cultural heritage objects, other cultural objects and sports-recreational objects". Again, the reference in the same document "will be co-financed by objects of a national or regional nature with a direct impact on the development of tourism. The facilities will be suitable for all categories of users, both for sports recreation programmes, sports of children and youth, quality and excellence sports, as well as for organizing various events that attract a large number of visitors." Well, in this "Janša resolution on national development projects" we also read: "Ljubljana and even the region are far behind in agricultural and congress tourism, as well as in sport and recreation. The main reason for this is the lack of adequate infrastructure. By upgrading this park" – then Leona Štuklja – "would greatly increase the development capabilities not only of Ljubljana, but also of the wider regions. The multi-purpose development park would therefore combine economic and tourism, university, sports and recreational capabilities that today cannot be established due to poor infrastructure." End of story. Therefore, the relation to sport and the knowledge of the necessary sports recreational facilities in Ljubljana do not indicate that the interpellation investors would not plan funds for the stadium in Stožice, unfortunately they have abandoned the planned co-financing. Why they did it, they didn't explain it. Of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we did not miss a number of unacceptable violations of labour law and unpaid obligations to performers, which Samir Handanovic best agreed when he said, "It would be better if we paid the workers in Ljubljana too." So let me conclude, this is not an interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Luksic. This interpolation is a substitute for the ever-debate on lending banks in majority state ownership to the Sožice project and its impact is expected to be demonstrated in October's local elections. That is why we do not support interpretation within the Group of Social Democrats and will not vote in favour of the proposed decision on the discharge of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, all others present! First of all, perhaps a few words about what we are talking about today, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members we have a feeling that we have come. And a few words about Mr Lukšić's obvious quality of prepared interpretation that they do not hold. Interpellation by content and formality at all points shall be thoroughly justified. The Minister's responses today also speak of his response, both written and oral, as a poor example for young people here today, not only because of his harmful decisions, but also because of the way in which he said that he did not reject any argument in the interpretation. In doing so it is totally irrelevant whether these points 68 or 69 are relevant that Minister Lukšič knows or does not know as much in his reply to the documentation he has attached, as today he has further substantiated the reasons for this interpretation by his statements. And secondly, I would like to say that we are not talking today about whether it is right that the country's largest sports facility is also financed by European, state or, as we hear it, by means of the city budget. We probably all agree that, on the assumption of a clear and transparent financial structure and in the case of a rational project, such a response is yes. But we're not talking about that today. Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič, is made due to a key observation concerning the adaptation of the terms of the tender, which is formally presented in the Public Call for the selection of operations to co-finance investments in sportrecreational infrastructure – III. I will continue to use the title of the invitation to tender, as we all know what invitation to tender is. Interpellation is therefore made due to the perceptions of the adaptation of these terms and conditions by responding to only one applicant and by allowing the exclusion of all others, even if the complexity of the role in the selection has been the result of what happened in the case of Kopra, or because of the evidence that the tender for the award of EUR 9.4 million of grants from the European and State budget has been used solely for the legal coverage of the previously agreed decision, which took place in the narrow, friendly and political circle of the highest officials of the Pahorian Government and the mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The fact that there was no argument here today is that it was a fictitious call. Therefore, the Ministry of Education and Sport’s call was not intended to compete on it equally with individual projects that met the conditions, which it announced by content, but only legal coverage of the previously agreed political decision. The latter show the terms of this fictitious tender, the publicly known facts and the course of events that followed before its publication. Even Minister Lukšič himself confirmed the fact that the invitation to tender served something other than equal treatment of the various applicants with the documentation attached to the reply to the interpretation. In addition, a key observation, which speaks of a pre-known choice, has proved that the application, which was selected as the only one for co-financing of EUR 9.4 million, should be excluded from the procedure because it did not meet the tendering conditions, at least in a few points not – for those for which we have heard from public hearings and for one from Minister Luksic's reply. It is quite amazing what legal acrobatics officials were forced to go to the Ministry of Education and Sport to justify a predetermined political choice. I'll talk about it later. The funds allocated are up to 85% of European cohesion policy funds. In the event of an audit of irregularities against foreign auditors, it will not be possible to hide. The funds will have to be returned to the European budget, and the penalty will probably also be paid. Today we are talking about the Minister of Political Responsibility. What about then? Will the Minister be in charge then? Is he gonna get that money back out of his pocket? Who and how will repair the damage that will then occur? The Minister's rulings in this case show that it was an intentional act. The documentation attached to the reply to the interpolation and other documents show that Minister Luksic was aware that he was publishing a fictitious invitation to tender. In April 2010, by letter dated 23 April 2010, the Minister of Finance proposed that EUR 20 million from the budget reserve be redeployed for the Stožice project. The Minister of Finance didn't do it. When Minister Lukšić failed to obtain funds for Janković's mega-manic and pre-named project, he found a solution in a fictitious public invitation to tender, although only a few days before the opening of the tender procedure, his ministry informed all municipalities in Slovenia in writing that the call for the co-financing of sports infrastructure in 2010 would not be due to lack of money and that the mayors could expect it in the first trimester of next year. This letter bears the date 9. 6. The Minister started a fictitious invitation to tender for the Stožice a few days later, 6 days later, on 15 June 2010. It is not today's claim that it is not the same; it is not the same; it is not the same, it is the same and many municipalities could run for these funds with a number of projects, and it would be too small if the call for proposals were open to all. However, I do not know whether this stems from the lack of knowledge or lack of knowledge of the Minister, which is bad, but if it results from deception, it is scandalous that these funds should be used this year. Therefore, the Minister's conduct prior to the publication of the invitation to tender, during the invitation to tender, and in particular the approval of a project which, due to a number of formal shortcomings, had to be covered by officials with appropriate interpretations, failed to fulfil, spoke of his political responsibility; even more so, they spoke of the justified suspicion of abuse of the official position or abuse of official rights. By his actions not only in the case that the Minister is being intertwined today, the Minister also creates inequality before the law. Notwithstanding the well-known outcome of the vote in this National Assembly, it is necessary to repeat the apparent interpretations and arguments that confirm their validity. In doing so, I must say that the Minister's reply and the documentation attached to the reply to his statement today was very helpful to the interpellation's proposals, as all of this does not burden him with responsibility and perceptions. On the contrary. The attached documents, the response to the interpolation, as well as his statements today prove that it was a fictitious public call, for formal coverage of the politically agreed decision, which is the main indication of the interpolation. The project, which was granted EUR 9.4 million of European and state grants, did not meet both substantive and formal conditions for approval. However, the proceedings that took place prior to the publication of the invitation to tender referred to the fact that it was a fictitious invitation to tender, which was supposed to cover a well-known and narrowly agreed decision in the political round. Therefore, let us take a brief look at how events or procedures followed before the invitation to tender was issued. First, of course, it is necessary to know that the Stožice project is being built on the basis of a public-private partnership, that is, I think, a key information in this case. An act on what is called the Public-Private Partnership Act, the construction of a multi-purpose football stadium and an accompanying facility with related infrastructure was adopted in autumn 2007 by the City Council of Ljubljana. Article 3 of this Public-Private Partnership Act states that, I quote, "it is the subject of a public-private partnership to build a multi-purpose football stadium and an accompanying facility with a related infrastructure in the Colossae. Within the framework of the public-private partnership, the private partner will produce project documentation and build a multi-purpose football stadium and an accompanying facility with appropriate infrastructure, in line with the project guidelines of the public partner and in accordance with the timetable to be agreed in the selection process of the private partner. In order to realize the project, the public partner will use a wally land in the Stožice, designed to build a multi-purpose football stadium and an accompanying facility with a corresponding infrastructure." And the last sentence, which is the key. "The private partner will have to fully ensure the financing of the project." The private partner will have to fully ensure the financing of the project! This is what the Act adopted by the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana states. Of course, at the expense of the land that this private partner has received for the construction of commercial and other business areas, which, of course, can be marketed further. Then, remember, Mayor Jankovic also said that not even the euro of public money would go to Stožice. And it has to be said that this model, if it were so real, is a good model. Moreover, it is an excellent model, of course with a rational project. Unfortunately, design has taken place far from the rationality and needs of Ljubljana and this country. As a result, there is also likely to have been an increase from 81 to just under €140 million, and this has resulted in the confusion over where to obtain the missing funds. We hear that in the short term, the Ljubljana City Council will decide that it will spend almost 40 million public money on the project and that the country will spend 9.4 million euros on the project. For this money, a little less than €50 million, ladies and gentlemen, Ljubljana would receive a renewed pearl in the middle of Ljubljana, Plečnik Stadium, which is fully sufficient for the needs of the city and this country. And what's going on out there today? Today, the weeds outgrew our historical and cultural heritage, on the other hand, the untransparent investments of the Stožice, violations of fundamental human rights, disregard for the rule of the rule of law, among which I expose non-payment to subcontractors, workers and other numerous infringements of the law on this project, with their statements and regrets, also by the highest representatives of this country; from the President of the State, the President of the Government, to individual ministers, today the most exposed, of course, Minister Lukšič – not only by statements, but also by actions. Last but not least, if the decision had already been taken that Plečnik Stadium was not appropriate, it would have been able to obtain the funds for Stožice City Municipality of Ljubljana if its current mayor had not acted primarily in the interests and interests of the narrowest and would have taken advantage as mayor of the priority right in the purchase of agricultural land, which, in the context of the adoption of the planned acts, changed the destination and the difference in value in the change of this destination would have landed in the city budget instead of in the pockets dedicated. Well. The Stožice Sports Park is being built by a private investor. He was also granted a building permit, and the congregation granted him a building permit. Therefore, as MOL, Municipality of Ljubljana, was able to run on this fictitious public invitation to tender, it did not already meet the basic conditions for running. We will see how the legal opinion of the associate from his office has contributed to the response to the interpretation. In addition, works for which the applicant applies must be awarded by public contract. This has not been and cannot be done again in the case of Stožice. Therefore, the municipality of Ljubljana did not fulfil the conditions for applying for this disputed and fictitious public tender, and in such a case any minister should reject such an application and, if he intended to do so in any way, find another legitimate way, and in no way violate the applicable rules of the game. Why did this fictitious invitation actually come about? Let's take a look back. In April, the mayor of Ljubljana said that the stadium in Stožice should also be co-financed by the state. Following this proposal, the government is expected to finance additional costs that will exceed €81 million in this public-private partnership. Well, now we know there'll be almost 140 million. He expected half that difference. And look, just a few days later, Minister Luksic responded and suggested to the government that the stadium should invest EUR 20 million in the project, and then sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance, which we also have in response to the interpretations provided by him, to the Ministry of Finance of 23 April. In it, Minister Luksic proposes the allocation of €20 million under the capital law by redistributing these funds from the current budget reserve to the Ministry of Education and Sport. The letter states that according to MOL, the value of the stadium and the hall will exceed the estimated 81 million by almost 40 million. And the Minister writes in this letter to his colleague at the Ministry of Finance that the Municipality of Ljubljana, within the framework of Stožice, will provide business space for the activities of the Sport Museum and the Sports Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. I do not resort to the reasons why the Minister in the Pahor government does not know what the budget reserve funds can be used for. The fact is, you should know. And, of course, the Minister of Finance, who respected the legislation in force, could not answer him otherwise than that he rejected the proposal. The budget reserve, which is around €27 million in this year's budget, can be used for natural disasters. The unfortunate irony that apparently this year will be used to remedy the situation after the floods in Ljubljana. The closeness that Minister Luksic wanted to pick up didn't work. And then what happened? Then came a visit on June 4th, when Prime Minister Pahor accompanied the Ljubljana mayor to see Stožice. And five days later a letter from the Ministry of Education and Sport, which I mentioned earlier, informing the Ministry of All Mayors of the Republic of Slovenia that in 2010 there will be no call for co-financing of sports infrastructure because there are no funds and that such a call will be expected next year. And six days later, on 15 June, Minister Lukšič signed a decision to initiate a procedure for this fictitious public tender to co-finance investment in sport infrastructure. On the one hand, it is said that the passiveisation of all those who would possibly be prepared would be a short tender period, which would still be long enough if it were open to all, but not only for those between €5 million and €45 million, and discriminatory tendering conditions, which, in the event that someone manages to get to the top, as in the case of Koper, is eliminated only by regional criteria. Thus, it was known in advance that no one else, except Ljubljana, could succeed on this invitation to tender. He knew that in advance. Without knowing it, Minister Luksic knowingly did so because he failed to obtain funds from the state budget on the basis of direct contact with the competent minister, that is with the Minister of Finance. And look, you can't deny it, you can't deny it. This is so clearly and so transparently documented that all the words we can say here are superfluous. In the Minister's reply today, we heard that money had to be spent. On 9 June, he wrote to all the municipalities that there was no money, and on 15 June he found that 9.4 million needed to be spent, the same money for the same projects, and that money would fall if it were not spent this year. Don't hold it. We know when cohesion lasts. And that the previous calls left 9,4 because some who were reported failed to take advantage of these projects – I think it was said that they had been withdrawn from 12 7. Yeah, but it's been known for a long time. And if that were true, then the invitation to tender for all the congregations would have been published earlier this year, not that all the congregations had received a letter on 9 June that there would be no invitation to tender, and six days later the invitation to tender for the one for whom the contract had been made in advance was also published. What worries most is how Minister Lukšič views this interpretation; he sees it as something unnecessary that is happening here in the National Assembly. He says let us work. Because of what you're doing here and I can't be in the government today, be aware that there will be even less money for sport and that the next year may not be this invitation to tender. Really!? Can I remind the Minister of this town how 3 million Euros were spent last November and December from the Ministry of Sport? Quickly, for unnecessary equipment, for some cameras and some laptops — after school, everyone got them because there were 3 million euros left on some item. Since officials who care about this have not been up to date, it was necessary to exhaust that item quickly, because we know what bureaucratic thinking is, still, even in these times of crisis: if it is not exhausted, I will have a smaller starting point next year. Dear Minister, order must be made at the Ministry and it must be done in a responsible manner! As the realisation of this year's budget in the light of the first half of last year is significantly lower, the 120 million euros are lower than in the first six months of this year and 200 million euros more than in the first half of the year; the deficit was €1 billion in the first half of last year; it is already €320 million this year; it is all the more important for the good to be managed and the resources available to be used effectively. Not that on the one hand the public is afraid and talking about if you are critical, there will be no money for these projects, because I do not have time to deal with projects, but I have to deal with the obvious, and on the other hand, what is expected of the minister is not done. If you perform your function as you have sworn and as enshrined in the constitution and laws, be sure that you do not have to deal with any interpretation. In the process of this call, the Minister of Education and Sport has violated a number of laws. In violation of the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act on Public Finance, Council of Europe Regulation No. 1083/2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund and the provisions of the Regulation on the implementation of procedures for the use of European Cohesion Policy funds in the 2007-2013 programming period, the provisions of the Regulation on procedures for the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the principles of the Public Procurement Act, which must be taken into account mutatis mutandis under Article 53(2) of the Public Finance Act in determining the conditions for the allocation of State aid appropriations. It is also worth stressing that the provisions of Regulation 1083/2006, which lays down rules governing the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund, have also been violated and define the objectives to which the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund should contribute, the eligibility criteria for Member States and regions to aid under these Funds, the available financial resources and the criteria for their allocation. Indirectly, the provisions of the Public Procurement Act were also violated. In interpolation, infringements of European and Slovenian legislation governing the implementation of procedures for the use of European cohesion policy funds, works to be co-financed by tender funds have not been made on the basis of procurement provisions, as in the case of all other calls for cohesion funds in the Republic of Slovenia. Minister Lukšič obviously does not understand these perceptions because he speaks of the fact that this invitation to tender cannot be published under the Public Procurement Act – of course not because it is not a commodity, as we do not see it. It is clear, however, that the procedures to be followed after these funds are used will constitute a breach of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, where it is expressly stated that the funds allocated under such a call must be spent in accordance with those provisions. The Regulation on the implementation of procedures for the use of European cohesion policy funds in the Republic of Slovenia during the 2007-2013 programming period has also been violated, which in Article 16 provides for an exception to the launch of procurement procedures and the implementation of the project before the decision on the allocation of funds, if such a project is in the NRPs. How can a project in the public-private partnership be in the NRPs? Where is this project in the NRPs? Why was this exception allowed here? How can it be that the following provision has been breached, referring to the fact that procedures can be initiated before the decision to choose is taken, but that the implementation of the works should not be initiated, as in the case of the Conciliation. The Minister considered one very important statement in the interpretation, namely that there was also one person on the call board who was employed in his office and that this statement was not true. This is not so important, but he did not say, at least publicly, more important information - who was the chairman of this call for proposals. Who was the chairman of this invitation to tender? Mr Aluš Pertinac, a prominent representative of the Social Democrats, was the chairman of this call commission, I think he was running for Vice-President or even party president in 2005, and he graduated from Mr Igor Luksic. So, if I finish it again. Neither the substantive nor formal conditions for the approval of the project, which was granted EUR 9.4 million, have been met, and we will only be able to make three essential findings, which we have learned from the media or the response to interpolation. He's the first one I've mentioned. The project is being built within the framework of a public-private partnership and therefore does not meet the basic condition that it would run for office on this call, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of the Act, by which this public-private partnership was justified, where it is explicitly stated that the private partner will build the entire project in full and at its costs. Another time. In the documentation, they apparently falsified and stole the data that the minister knew about, and some also leaked to the public. Let's say the one about 18,000 euros in rent. In such a case, the Ministry should immediately withdraw from the contract and annul the decision to choose, instead, Minister Lukšič and Ljubljana Mayor Janković came forward with a soothing statement: everything is O.K. They said that the data is not biased, and I am indeed writing in the application that the rental of the stadium for one game will cost EUR 18,000, but the game for which Nogomet paid EUR 950 of rent despite Olympia meant that only sanitary and dressing rooms were rented. Apparently, next time, they'll only rent grass, not the surface under it. Funny?Oh, my God! It's sad! And a third reading. One of these data, which is essential, was taken care of by the minister himself, according to our assessment, accompanied by a response to the interpolation. What's this all about? It is a statement that the notifier had to attach to it that it is a burden on the free ownership of the property on which the works which were the subject of the tender are to be carried out or on the declaration of the right to construction on land. MOL submitted this statement in the application, however - despite the fact that a building right is granted on land to a private investor in accordance with the above-mentioned act on the award or establishment of a public-private partnership and despite the fact that there are 10 active fillings for various mortgages. The matter was just too difficult, which is why the Minister obtained the expert opinion you have in response to the interpretation, written by a staff member in his office or the secretariat of the Ministry of Education and Sport. This opinion is dated 29. Seven. 2010 and in it this expert, the closest associate of the minister, who is of course completely independent and professional, notes that the establishment of the building right - listen well 'do not change property rights and that such building rights mean only a minor intervention in the owner's entitlement to the use of this property'. That we'll be able to understand what this is all about in a layman's way. Imagine that these are the Stoics, this is the land, and these are the objects on it. The building right granted on this land means only a minor intervention in property rights, according to this logic, as stated in this opinion, means that tomorrow the Municipality of Ljubljana can obtain a building permit to build something else on this land. Can he get it? It cannot, no, because the land is burdened with building rights, formally for the period for which this building right is granted, but in fact for the period for which these buildings are located. And this means a substantial burden on this property, and such land is not pure land. And the mortgages on these buildings, because this is a building right, are inseparably linked to the foundation on which these buildings stand. If there was nothing else, then this finding is a sufficient reason why Jankovic's role as minister should not be satisfied because this statement is that this land is pure, false. This expert opinion also states that the date on which the reference is actually entered in the Land Book is considered to be an entry into the Land Book. We all know that this is not what counts as the time when the application to the land book is filed, then the matter is sealed and ten such seals are on this land. Therefore, it is more than obvious that Minister Luksic was not meant to ensure in a transparent manner that this call would expire, but in this process it was clear all the time that he was just looking for a way to remove the obstacles which were disturbing on the way to the allocation of pre-allocated funds for this Janković's mega-Romanian and over-designated project. As a result, Minister Lukšič is not only responsible, he is a screenwriter with the assistant of the Ljubljana Mayor, so his responsibility is so much greater and unfortunately goes beyond political responsibility. However, regardless of the indications given in the interpretation, it should be pointed out that Minister Lukšič also earned a discharge for a number of other reasons by following the application of the interpolation. The most important decision among him is certainly a decision on school holidays, which he combined in one week without analysis. The decision is detrimental to the Slovenian economy, to the state budget, to children, teachers, parents, in short, to everyone, but means the school case of the autonomous and governmental conduct of one of the highest public officials, the Minister for Education and Sport. Responses also show that the Minister does not understand that he is a public official in the service of the people and that it is not the people who are in his service, or that they would not listen to the statement that the economy, the tourist economy in this case, would have to adapt to the stupid and harmful decrees. In a normally functioning legal country, the Minister would resign on his own; in a weakly functioning legal country, the Prime Minister would require his release. In Slovenia, the responsibility and discharge of such a minister is required by part of the opposition, the proposed members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups and the Slovenian National Party. The final decision is therefore well known in advance: experience from past interpretations shows that the ruling coalition with the voting machine, with the express support of the Prime Minister, is ready to defend every minister or minister, even if they are found with both hands in a bag or in a marmalade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u25	Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The point discussed at today’s session apparently bears the wrong address. At first glance, it is clear that the basic objective is not to interpellement Minister Igor Luksic, but rather to pre-election September meeting, which is intended for political accounting for the purposes of an election campaign in the Municipality of Ljubljana. The National Assembly is estimated to have been used, and today I'm going to be the hostage of some kind of paranoia. Therefore, I propose that all the costs incurred in connection with today's meeting be recorded as the costs of the SDS electoral campaign and other interpelling candidates. The municipality of Ljubljana has clearly been a major problem for SDS, especially in the last four years, when the Ljubljana and Ljubljana women decided to elect Zoran Jankovic as mayor, and when the current mayor has apparently done his job so well that everything shows that he will be re-elected. Among the projects that have been implemented, which are the most enviable, is the Stožice Sports Park. The Stožice Sports Park, if we are realistic – and you have also acknowledged the interpellationers – was built during the economic crisis. At the time of its construction there were also numerous obstacles, obstacles, problems. And because of the success of Mayor Jankovic, although it was almost scientific fiction, the object was still to be completed, this facility became the main target of the pre-election action of one of the parties. However, our capital has received an important sports infrastructure facility, which has been recognized for decades as essential and which we can still be proud of and proud of after all. Once the pre-election euphoria has passed, it will no longer matter how and who built this facility, but the fact that such an object represents one of the key city-building and state-building elements. This is not only an object important to Ljubljana and Ljubljana, but when it becomes fully alive, it will become an important sports, cultural and entertainment centre, probably also a commercial centre, which also means architecturally one of Slovenia's most important architectural achievements. And if we are thinking only at the principle level, then we see no reason why the country should not be involved with its share of such a facility. Just like the country has participated in many other similar facilities, such as the Maribor and Celestial Stadium and other facilities, for example, the renovation of the Red Hall in Velenj, the Bonefika Copier, the Biathlon Centre in Pokluka, as well as the Radelski Athletic Stadium or the Athletic Park in Radovljica; in short, many more or less large buildings in many Slovenian places and cities. So what is Minister Luksic's fault? The Ministry has launched a public tender, one of many in recent years, the third with a similar content, which is intended to build sport infrastructure. However, such that the City Municipality of Ljubljana could also apply for it. And today we have heard many times the spoken words "fiction call" and the invitation to tender, which was prepared for only one applicant. Once again, I ask, by common sense and logic, how a fictitious call, if four have applied, how ready for only one applicant, if the two have met the full conditions - they have fully met the conditions. If we look into the past, the Strategic Urban Plan, the long-term plan of the municipalities and the city of Ljubljana for the period 1986–2000 was already envisioned as the central sports range in Slovenia's Ljubljana Stožice. Central sports range! So it took us more than two decades to prepare and realize or build a sports park. And all these years it has been said that new sports infrastructure is urgently needed in the capital. Today, let us remember a number of articles and comments about the disgraceful condition of Plečnik’s stadium, as well as the ridicule that Ljubljana received, that it is simply not able to build a single stadium. However, when the first drawings of the hall and stadium in Stožice were shown, the mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana was accused of rapala and accusations. And we have heard this, seen it, seen it, and felt it, and we also need to talk about it today in the National Assembly. On everything that's going on, let me just say one Slovenian proverb: If the indignation were to burn, then we really wouldn't need trees. And let's be honest, this is where it goes first and foremost for unkindness. Minister Lukšič is therefore guilty of allowing himself to issue an invitation to tender after, in fact, it was expected that no invitation to tender would be issued. Here I have a statement from the former SDS Minister or today's Member of the SDS, also an interpreter, Mr Viszak, who said on June 14th: "I agree, I agree that the state would give funds for this project, but in our party we insist that the funds be distributed transparently through calls, as other projects are obtained." However, when the invitation to tender was prepared, and apparently the matter surprised him, we can hear what the call was made. Our capital Ljubljana has been repeatedly recognized as a stepmother to Slovenian sport and its political leadership has been repeatedly condemned to be too ambitious to achieve this. The fact is that Ljubljana to Stožice had neither a sports hall nor a stadium that met high European standards for the organisation of large international sports events. Therefore, the aforementioned project, which is so hateful for some today, has already been tabled by the previous government in the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2013. The former government has already provided €10 million in the 2008 budget, focused on this project, without a call for proposals. This is why we do not really understand today's rejection and opposition to the football stadium in Ljubljana, which is the most modern, the largest stadium in the country, which finally meets all the requirements of the UEFA and FIFE to play international football games. The only stadium in Slovenia that meets the highest requirements. The stadium, which was full at the opening and with which sports fans, enthusiasts, also athletes and others are satisfied. That the Stožice Sports Park is a very good example of the development of Ljubljana, the President of the State also assessed. In his opinion, the capital had a long period of stagnation and numbness, and the present project shows that Ljubljana is moving forward dynamically. We may have concerns, and we may also wonder whether the time of crisis in which the construction of this facility has just happened is the most appropriate for such buildings, but I ask you – when is the time at which such buildings are built? There are always demagogic facts, arguments and concerns that such objects are not the right and most important priority. The capital was the last and comparable investment in 1965 when we received the Tivoli Hall. Over the last 15 years, more than €60 per capita has been allocated from the state budget for the construction and modernisation of sports infrastructure in the municipalities of Celje and Maribor and only around €8 per capita in MOL. And we're still indignant. We still have problems with this stadium. For the construction of the hall and stadium in Celje, the country has invested €2 million in the state and European budget in recent years and €4 million in the construction of the stadium in Maribor. We also ask ourselves in the Group of Members why the colleagues of the parties preparing the interpolation did not oppose state co-financing in these two projects. Moreover, it is not really a matter of state co-financing, as 85% of these funds, which are intended for the stadium in Cologne, are the European Regional Development Fund. And there is absolutely no reason that part of this means, part of this cake, which we have heard today, is over 70 million, especially if it threatens to remain unused, is not embedded in Ljubljana's infrastructure. This raises an interesting question about our attitude towards the capital. As we do not know and do not wish to express our respect for many national institutions, from the President of the State, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Commission, including the Prosecutors, to the flag and also to other numerous symbols, even their capital, regrettably, some have also said so publicly, do not take their capital. They do not take it as an important element of national identity and national pride. Ljubljana is our capital, our center and is one of the symbols of this country. Ljubljana's vice-martial and distinguished architect, Janez Koželj, was disappointed in his four-year experience in politics, quote, "Ljubljana is hated. In many parts of Slovenia, it is the symbol of the worst. Even a swear word is to be a Ljubljanaese, to be a frog. This is one sad fact of our smallness and impossibility of the state." End of quote. Is the problem simply that in Ljubljana for decades there has been no "real" political option? And is it obvious that even in the next four years, something does not seem right to change? Perhaps this is the same, and I am convinced that, last but not least, the content and motive of today's interpolation and debate we have. But let's get back to interpolation. It is interesting how much of the text of the interpolation is also intended for the re- and already known netification of the dispute and rivalry between Maribor and Ljubljana. This would be a huge injustice, for the invitation to tender was not supposed to be corrected, as it was only written on the skin of the Ljubljana project. But let's be concrete. Is Maribor really so infrastructurally neglected and undervalued? Why I'm talking about this – because you've devoted quite a few points of interpretation to the letter and the protest of Maribor, clearly, with the motive to support how much this is true and how much you think it is true. But can we really say that after a well-renewed football stadium in the Human Garden? When did we open a new puppet theater in Maribor days ago? When are the funds provided for the implementation of investments within the EPK? As a member of the ruling coalition, I am pleased that the government of Borut Pahorje and Minister Igor Lukšič have been able to provide some of the funds for the university, including the EPK. It also adopted a decision on support for the municipality of Maribor's European Youth Capital in 2013. In doing so, I am proud that this government has also found a way and opportunity to co-finance the construction of the stadium in Stožice. I am neither a Ljubljana girl nor a Mariborian, but I take all the projects as mine, as our projects. As I look forward to the new Celje library and the renovated rowing centre at Bled, the Biathlon Centre at Pokluka, and we could also list. This breadth would also be expected from all other colleagues and colleagues, Members who are the highest representatives of all citizens and citizens. There was a lot of talk about the non-transparent invitation to tender, about the alignment of the invitation to tender. And let me remind the proposers, particularly the esteemed former Minister of Economy, of some of the calls from their mandate, of the calls that have raised a lot of suspicions, doubts, doubts, dilemmas and I don't know what else, perhaps significantly bigger than the one we have today as an interpolation here. Let me remind you of an article on one of the invitations to tender related to the work of the former Minister of Economic Affairs of Visiak. Under this title, the following was published, and I will quote, which was written, that this will not be my statement, "The viscous will financially take care of his Phoenix." Under this title, one of the newspapers wrote about the former economic minister, who was supposed to receive EUR 1.34 million in additional funding for the programme under the heading "Economic-Development-Logistic Platforms" last October – an article from 2009 – three weeks after the parliamentary elections. This programme is intended to plan 9 projects according to the strategy. However, most of the total EUR 1.97 million, i.e., EUR 1.88 million, is to be allocated to JAPTI for the preparation of the state-owned site plan. The total value of the Phoenix plan, which is to be created in the Breža municipality, where Vizjak is also home, is to be at least EUR 3 million. You, Mr Vizjak, could not have been interpreted for this matter, because you have already ceased in the meantime and you have finished your term of office. You made the call, so it says here, after your mandate has been completed, and most of the call, look at it, went to some places where you come from. It is amazing how often a person gets the feeling that Mr. Vizjak shares the impressions and has the habit of making things clear to others what he has obviously been doing alone. And today, an interpellation is built right on the fact that Minister Luksic is supposed to tailor the call. What would you say about what has now been read? Maybe it's also an invitation to tender? We could also talk about a number of other calls from your mandate, given that we did not have the opportunity to interpolate and there were no interpolations. For example, about the airport tower at Jožet Pučnik Airport, which resulted in an affair that was supposed to have its epilogue in court, the pure shovel affair. Or an invitation to tender [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u27	Mrs Orazem, I ask you to avoid any bickering and to follow the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u28	I'm talking to you myself. [[...]] But sometimes views say something, and I agree with that. Interpellation is therefore made for three alleged reasons: the suspicion of setting up a public invitation to tender, but here I have said some suspicions to show how much they can also be on torn soils, the suspicion of abuse of the official position and the creation of inequalities before the law. The text of the interpolation does not contain reasonable grounds for doubt. Interpellation does not cover and do not reveal the facts, but only concerns, opinions, doubts, doubts, questions and conclusions of the applicants themselves. It is clear from what has been said that we will not support the interpretations in the Zares Group against Minister Lukšić and we find it totally inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. For the first time, the applicant asked, Mr Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I will stick to the agreement, I will be very brief, because I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to some of the key points on which we are building this interpolation and which are the reason and proof of the Minister's unlawful conduct. Well, first of all, I would like to point out that this is not an interpretation against the Stožice Sports Park. The Slovenian capital needs a sports park, needs a modern football stadium, needs a modern sports hall. The way to ensure this was also available in this government, the Minister himself mentioned that he could have intervened with the amendment of the operational programmes so that he could reserve the money in the budget through the opening of the items in the Development Programme Plan, but that government sport park, then also Leona Štuklja, threw it out of the budget. Before this government was appointed, I have a proven case here. So, you consciously decided that there would be no public money. Look. We have detected a violation of Article 53 of the Public Finance Act in conjunction with Article 7 of the Public Procurement Act, which states that a call for tender must be made non-discriminatory in order to prevent any tenderer from being excluded from the possibility of success in advance. Not for the role, respectable, for the success of the invitation to tender. Everyone in this country has the opportunity, under the terms of the invitation to tender, to succeed in the invitation to tender and to be selected. This is a fundamental principle of non-discrimination, and we acknowledge that it has been violated. Dear Prime Minister, please listen to me so I can tell you why. Because the invitation to tender contained criteria which provided for scoring. 24 points of the so-called regional criterion were possible and the application was not considered at all further unless it reached 12 points. Five Slovenian statistical regions could not reach half the points. Couldn't have done it, by no means! Five regions could not reach the number of points. Among other things, Podravska region, Coastal-Kraška region, Gorenjska region, Celje region and so on. Couldn't make it! Thus, five statistical regions could not succeed in the tender. Dear Minister, you haven't even answered my question! Indeed, these regions already have sufficient sport per capita, according to your criteria, and have already received sufficient resources from the budget. They cannot therefore succeed at the invitation to tender. This call is discriminatory if five Slovenian statistical regions cannot succeed in the tender. They can apply, they can play a role, they can play a full role, as in the case of Kopra, where your coalition fellow Member, Luka Juri, has had legitimate concerns, but has been eliminated through this regional criterion. The regional criterion is known in advance to the minister, because it is known in advance how many sports areas are per capita. It's known how many square meters. This is known in advance, it is known exactly how much funding has already been allocated per capita in the individual statistical region. That's exactly what you know! And on the basis of a total of five statistical regions, it was theoretically impossible to meet this condition. That's what I'm talking about! That's what I'm talking about. This is specifically discriminatory in this invitation to tender. Let us leave all the other signs that say that it is discriminatory; of the fact that it is actually impossible to complete such a large project within five months, and so on. So that's also why you're saying why Koper was eliminated. In fact, we have a very clear, wide-ranging practice of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which has repeatedly ruled that Member States of the European Union have to repay funds if they have been discriminatory calls from Member States. The Honourable Prime Minister or the Honourable Minister, there is nothing 100 % in this country, nor is that, but I am highly convinced that the State will have to return it, and also because the invitation to tender was discriminatory because it excluded five statistical regions through the tender itself, through the criteria of the invitation to tender. I don't know, I'd be very happy if you took a deep breath in this invitation. You'll find that the fact is what I'm talking about. That's why the respectable Ljubo Germich, indeed, were two roles. The two roles were perfect, but your region had no theoretical prospects for success, and you are arguing that the call was non-discriminatory because it could be applied to as many people as you want. Anyone can sign up for it! Two of the four applications were incomplete, and the corruption project, for which a full application was submitted, was eliminated due to this regional criterion. So, the matter was like a funnel: first, through the general conditions, the applicants were reduced, that is, half, as we saw in the actual state, and then the matter focused only on the criteria where the last competitor fell away. So these are the reasons for this interpretation, Your Honor. Very specific, no political bubbles are here, but let's leave it alone. Legislation has been broken — the goal is to devote money. I do not think that this principle should be followed that the Government had a great deal of opportunity to serve and reach out on more legal criteria for financing this unnecessary sport facility, but this happened in a hurry just before the technical review, just before the opening of July this year. And, Your Honor, I believe you know. All Slovenian municipalities' mayors, coalition, opposition, were informed in June of the need to save money and that there will be no call for co-financing of sports infrastructure this year. Less than a month later, there was a call for European funds – I do not know why these European funds were not also allocated to, say, other municipalities for projects, why there was at least no information in the June communication to the mayors that there would be a call for them within one month or 14 days. None of this happened. This month, it fell into water, a respected prime minister, a way to finance it from the budget reserve, a public-private partnership of private investors has failed, in fact only for a sample of this project, and it has to be helped through public money. Okay, okay, but on a legal path, not on an illegal path, where we are likely to pay through further institutions of the European Union, as I said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u31	Mr President of the Government made a statement. Here you go, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u32	Dear Mr. Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! I'm not here because of the protocol manner in which the Prime Minister of the Government is appointed to be a minister with whom he runs a certain department. This is an important issue on which the continued fate of the public will depend on the unbiased decisions of the ministerial assembly when it comes to handling state money. If I understand correctly, the key question of this debate is whether Minister Luksic has initiated the tender process in order to get the taxpayers' money, in this case from the cohesion address, just as Mayor Janković has called for the Stožica Stadium. Minister Lukšič explained to me before and during the preparation of the reply, as well as to you, that this was not the case. I have known Minister Lukšić for too long to question his words, as well as the documentation, the time machine and all other available information prove that the Minister has not decided to help Mayor Janković build the facility. This is now the most important point of this discussion, but I would like to say something else with it. I think I've done more work than Minister Luksic in the construction of the Stožice Stadium. And I would also like to say this openly before this national assembly. In good and bad. Like a bunch of other infrastructure facilities, this was a big financial contribution – here I agree with what Ambassador Zalokar said was a state-created project planned during a conjuncture. I think it's worth about 220 million euros. You mention ownership changes in those who are supposed to service this huge financial supply. In any event, it was concluded that just before now, the funds for completing the project had run out. As President of the Government, I could say that this is the jurisdiction of the city authorities and that I have enough other problems not to deal with it. Not only is the Stožice project a project that is not only urban but also of national importance, but it is a symbol of some movements in the success of one ambitious idea. Let's just remember the controversy about Cankar's home and its necessity 30 years ago, today without Cankar's home we can't imagine the necessary cultural infrastructure in Slovenia. I have decided that, in the framework of my powers, I will stand by to help, as far as possible in those fateful days, that the Colosseum project will continue. I am prepared with regard to my part of the responsibility for the fact that the Contingencies have become operational, although only temporarily, ready to answer to all parliamentary investigative committees. I confess that I have set up my influence within my powers, that certain institutions, institutions, have been derailed, in order to continue the work and to complete the phase of granting a temporary operating authorisation. And I'm not sorry! That's why I think I'm doing this duty! And what I would like to say is that it is likely to be excluded from this context that I am equally helping all other mayors if these projects are of such importance. Probably in one small municipality, not for a project worth €220 million, maybe smaller, but to the same extent, if possible, with my influence, the powers of me or the ministers to help the mayors carry out the projects to the end; not always successfully, because I am and there is no way, but we are trying to do so. We know that the mayors began their mandate at the time of the conjucture. At that time, they had the legitimate right to plan slightly more ambitiously than it turned out to be able to service projects financially during the recession. But you have to respect what started. Wherever there was a whisper of the possibility that these projects could lead to the end, we tried at the government level, at the offices, at the ministries and at me personally, to help bring these projects to an end, whether it was sports facilities, business facilities, residential facilities, or to the end. I've got all kinds of managers coming to me. I have already said that I can easily divide them into two groups: those who come before the government and just want the government to help, and those who come to solve their problems. As soon as that happens to me, I try to follow his advice and help. Here and there it turns out to be a success, here and there it also turns out to be a failure. But who will this country rely on during this crisis and the way out of it as those who at least have ideas about how we will move forward?Oh, my God! I am not or am not called, nor am I competent to judge whether everything was done as it should have been in the Conciliation Project. As far as this invitation is concerned, I have enough reason to reject the opposition's findings that Minister Luksic has tailored this call for mayor Jankovic's needs. That's why I don't think the interpretation against him is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u33	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Once again, I will repeat a very specific question, because I think it is crucial to shed light on the circumstances of today's topic. Dear Prime Minister, I appreciate and respect your intention to help. However, you have this assistance framed within the framework of Slovenian legislation and the Constitution and the European acquis. Here are your frames. Here the opposition claims and substantiates with evidence concrete that you went over this edge of your aid, even now you in particular. Again, in what? Very specific about what. By the way, before I say this, it is only that this case can become a precedent, that we will eliminate potential tenderers, notifiers one after another, and focus calls in future exactly what we know. This case is an extremely important precedent for the future conduct of ministries and others that organise public calls. Dear Prime Minister, a very specific question. Among the criteria for project scoring is also the so-called regional criterion consisting of three elements and the scoring referred to in 24 points. The three elements consist of these 24 points. 10 points is the regional criterion, the exercise area per capita in the region, 10 points is the current financing of sport infrastructure from the budget and 4 points is the achievement of so-called horizontal objectives. So if we ignore this third, 20 out of 24 exercise points per capita and the funds received so far. 20! At the same time, the invitation to tender provides that at least half of the 24 points must be collected by the notifier, i.e. 12 in order for its application to be considered at all. Therefore, if someone does not reach 12 points, his application shall not be considered. It's not being treated, it's in the invitation to tender. If you want, I'll read it to you. Five statistical regions of 12 can neither theoretically nor practically, nor in any way collect 12 points. He can't! By the way, Podravska can only collect 4 points, the coastal and karst region can only collect 7 points, Savinjska region can only collect 11 points, Gorenjska region only 7 points and Koroška region only 9 points. Theoretically, if they get all four for those horizontal objectives, because these regions have already received so much funding from the budget under the Ministry criteria and because they already have so many exercise areas per capita. I'm talking about the statistical region, so it doesn't matter, we have a region, because you know one that's very far-reaching; if the concentrated sports infrastructure is in one part, the other part can be completely without it, because then it turns out to be, but let's just leave it. So, don't you think, Prime Minister, that this is discriminatory, that the criteria are discriminatory up to five regions. Five regions cannot pass through this call. He can't! [[...]] [[to talk to someone in the bench]] Yeah, I mean, I didn't get, you know, there hasn't been an answer to that yet. See, also Mr Luka Juri pointed out to Koper, to the kopir project, the role was formally perfect, it had everything, but it fell through; normally, because it is from the Coastal-Kraška region. Thus, discrimination in public procurement is the reason for the rejection of funds. President of the Government, I ask you: Will you personally, because you have now stood behind Minister Luksic's back, answer if the state will have to return funds to the Cohesion Fund for a discriminatory call? Once again, the Court in Luxembourg is many times – and many legal practices and many judgments are already on this subject. That's my point. The point is that these conditions are discriminatory, and the point is that this is contrary to a regulation which lays down procedures for the allocation and use of cohesion funds, and that this is contrary to paragraphs 53 and 7 of the Public Finance Act or the Public Procurement Act. These are, in short, the key facts of this. I will not burden you with the fact that the call for so much money was in such a short time, so late that the applicants had so little time that it is more than obvious from a whole bunch of other conditions that it is focused only on this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u35	Mr. Minister Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. President of the Government, fellow Members of Parliament! Look, the government is here to run a certain policy and [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, of course, non-discriminatoryly, but a certain policy of achieving the goals. So far, the regional criterion has been in the tendering process, which took into account only general development, and under this criterion the most developed municipalities have always fallen out. And we said because it's a sport area, we want to support projects in those municipalities where they lack sports facilities because it's a sport. Sports facilities! And I know, Mr. Member, that it is difficult to separate between kindergartens, between the integral part of the budget, between [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's what's coming out of the interpolation, which is why we've estimated it to be a little flawed. But look! Well, it would be discriminatory if we only had one congregation out, but if we pulled it out, then we have another mechanism, and that's a direct confirmation. You tell us that we have given these funds to someone through the invitation – we are wasting time and procedure if we have another tool at our disposal. Why would we decide that?Oh, my God! Do you think we're that crazy, or what?Oh, my God! Please! That's a little insulting what you're doing with us. Look! This is not about the fact that the criteria for the expression relating to sport infrastructure have come to light and this needs to be developed in an equivalent regional manner. And that's why this criterion was introduced. And that's why he's in here and he's not discriminatory. Look, if I say I'm going to the primary school invitation. And now we have one problem, here you say it's a precedent. Yeah, and it's right that it's unprecedented. Do you know what's happening to us? These, in your opinion, non-discriminatory calls lead to us always being the same. And when we look at primary schools, basic school equipment – they always report for ICT equipment from the same school! And we have not developed a mechanism, not even during your government's time, and we not yet in two years, but I have now instructed that they do so to get to those schools that do not use this; so that we will come to those municipalities' sports facilities and we will introduce other mechanisms that will not only depend on whether the congregation has any leadership in this ambition, or not, but that the country is also engaged here. [[...]] And that's right! Look, we still don't have a review of what's happening to us today. Someone mentioned earlier: two years ago, funding of primary schools that were affected by the storm. Why? Because the state doesn't have these records, and that's what I told my colleagues on investment to do. In short, we start to lead one policy that will lead to real coverage being even better than it was when I showed it earlier. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] In defense, yes! Well, this isn't about any non-discrimination, but look what else is, what I've said before. See, this project or invitation to tender was prepared by the best experts, which this country formally has on SVR. And if we go to see, and here at the Ministry, they're the same people they've been making calls before. And if they don't know, see how the minister or anyone knows there's any discrimination here?Oh, my God! And the money hasn't been cashed yet! There's not a claim yet. And when the request comes, look, the Ministry of Finance will review the whole story again, everything you've been saying here. It will be reviewed because it is of interest that the state does not provide the funds that it should repay. If this happens – look, it is not a problem in one Minister Luksic, but the problem is that we simply do not have the right people at all these points. Yes! What are we doing? Look, and I trust that we have the right people. No, no, we have the right people! You think it's just one person who makes the call and then writes the call. There are ten people involved in the invitation to tender, and these are the ones most familiar with these matters. And if we don't trust them, look, who can we trust in this country? No one else! Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. That's a very nice greeting for you, Mr. Secretary of State! You will remain because you have strong advocates here, who we well know as a man of clarity, precision and expertise. And I like it when you started primary school. Two plus two is four. And maybe I should start with preschool, because obviously we haven't taken two plus two yet, but maybe one plus one is equal to two. For it has been made clear several times by the Minister today in the introduction and also by Members of Parliament about some misunderstandings, I can say. The fact that two applications came to the invitation to tender, that we had just heard a debate that all the tenders so far were equally targeted by regional criteria and that the Central Slovenian region has always fallen out due to its high percentage of development and that this call respected the principle of compliance, not least, with the National Programme on Sport, which clearly discusses the need to have criteria for the construction of sport infrastructure in the territory of Slovenia. I am so sure that my colleagues will say many more times, argue, quote documents, quote, not least, data, and at the end of the 13 hours we will see that this will all be in vain, because the candidates will probably vote in their own way, as they are now speaking in their own way. But let me tell you something about the Minister himself, because I know him very well. If we think we are so naive today to discuss the work and responsibility of the Minister for Education, I can say that in the last two years, the Minister himself has managed to gain primarily the confidence of the staff in education and education. And that's my everyday practice I have on the ground. Unlike previous colleagues of ministers, he is led by professional arguments and decisions are always verified by the Slovenian school profession. Finally, we have had proof of this in the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, where three fundamental messages have been taken seriously into account, which also represents the management of its work. This is: that the teacher is the foundation of the system and that the public school has priority over the private school and that the participation of students in the educational process is an important socialisation factor. But the simple fact and other evidence is that Minister Igor Lukšič is today a truly convenient communication tool of the pre-election conflict in our capital. We have now heard this in these four hours, as far as the debate is concerned, and I am strongly skeptical or optimistic, as you take it, that this will continue. Today it has also been said that there is a very poor situation in the field of sports. The only measurable criteria are probably the achievements of our athletes. It convinces us to do the opposite. Despite the fact that some politicians in the past like to take credit for the success of our athletes, the minister does not have that habit, nor does he. And some other ministers from other areas, not just sports, wanted to attribute certain achievements. The Minister is committed to the implementation of the basic acts adopted in our National Assembly. And one of these acts is the National Programme of Sport in the Republic of Slovenia, where sport is defined as an important activity of society and in particular an expression of the dynamics of the quality of life of an individual. Today we have also heard that caring for children and youth in the field of sports is almost negligible. However, it is only possible that this is the area where the realisation in 2008 increased by as much as 20% of the funding for sport for young people and children. That would also help us to check the data we have heard. However, the following words that I will read may also speak about the duality of the applicants [[Quote]] : "Look, I also believe that Ljubljana, in general as the capital, is nourished with suitable sports facilities. That is why I personally support the sports part of this project. And even more! I believe that the country should also be more co-financed. In the previous mandate, while we were planning another substance, we also envisaged part of the state resources, in fact European funds, for this purpose. Of course, we insist that funds be allocated transparently, on the basis of a call for proposals, as for all other sports facilities. In this I do not see the problem, and in fact I welcome the idea that the country should approach, because sports infrastructure is necessary, is more than an economic thing and, of course, also requires the financing of the country or the municipality, which is in all cases in Slovenia so." But, you know, those weren't my words, though they could have been. In these words, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group performed in one of the shows on the theme of the Sport Park in Stožice. Of course, he further challenged the issue of financial construction and, above all, the business work of this facility. However, for this part as well as the entire investment, the responsible investors and some of the ministers of this government bear the burden, so the sarcasm could be used to say that the selection of the Complaints in the public tender gave rise to their will or will of at least some of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Emissary Group. This project, of course, supports, but it wrote below, not lastly, the interpretation. Of course, I would discuss and prove with numbers a lot more, but as I say, one plus one is in preschool education today two – if someone doesn't learn, maybe someone forgets or doesn't hear well. The reasons for the request for the discharge of Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić, are completely unfounded, as we have proved so far, because for me, the interpretation of the trampling stock is unprecedented, and because the ministry, with its decisions, successfully opposes the introduction of political unrest into the school space, of course I will not support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u39	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Interpellation will not solve any problem with the use or non-use of European funds, nor will it solve the uncovered investment of Stožica. In particular, the servility of the entire Government in solving the problem of Stožice is problematic. For example, an amendment to the Light Pollution Regulation instead of taking into account the Regulation in the design and implementation of light bodies and instead of greater inspection of the implementation of regulations. Then there was an inspection prison in the area of Tomačevo at the time of the opening of the Stožice instead of taking measures for a greater payment discipline. Mainly, in the Slovenian People's Party we have been saying that we are concerned about this duality of the rule of law in our country. We have already mentioned many times that we seem to have two legal positions: one for the minority, that is for the people of capital, and the other for the majority of citizens and citizens. I'm already at the second extraordinary session, 21. 11. 2008, Mr President of the Government has made it a matter of concern to me who has power in this country: democratically elected politicians or capital. In this recent time, and even in all these events that are taking place around here, I think I've had my thoughts straight ahead. I have a feeling that capital is in this country, and there's a lot to be done. But speaking of Condoms, football stadiums and all superlatives, I am pleased that we have such a facility in the country, but I would be even more pleased if football were at least as developed as it is in Cyprus. Eight hundred and fifty thousand people can make up the 14-member first league, which is visited by between 5,000 and 15,000 viewers, and that's the real thing. It is true that we could ask ourselves how they generally have developed sport in Cyprus, because Slovenians we are really very sporty and most likely to invest in many things and not only in football, and therefore our economy cannot bear, for now, so that we can really finance all this quality sport public. Why doesn't this stadium have an athletic track? But as I said before, this interpolation will not solve all these problems, but I have allowed myself to speak something outside of this interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u41	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u42	It seems that it is going quite quickly, for those who have demanded and put in an intervention feel that there is no longer any argument to insist on it. Perhaps it would be better if we suggested it to the introductions and concluded the discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u43	They're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u44	Don't they have any more time? Yeah!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u45	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u46	He was underreported because he probably had no interest. But no matter what, they said it would be hot in the fall, it almost cooled down and probably needed to warm up this atmosphere a little bit, and the interpolation is quite appropriate for this machine to warm up in the early autumn. Many would almost forget what the National Assembly has already done, especially with a lot of obvious, a lot of tampering, and in particular an attempt to create an opinion in public, that this government, ministers, the President of the Government, the job, is incompetent to fail to carry out its tasks and that those who want to do it and who have already had the opportunity to do it better. But when we talk about interpolation alone, first we need to ask ourselves the question: What is it intended for? What's the key to this? And: Does any evidence of this interpolation even hold? If we stop on purpose, then this is only one part of the purpose, which, while being implemented through a few forms of the functioning of this National Assembly, is ultimately two investigative commissions, and one in particular, are dealing with the issue of Ljubljana, the infrastructure in Ljubljana, the operation of the current mayor. In addition, it is necessary to point out some things that could arouse in the Slovenian public the feeling that Ljubljanans, Ljubljana women, Ljubljana authorities have some special status, some privileges and lives on the expense of taxpayers throughout Slovenia, at the expense of others simply not coming to some of the public goods, including the stadium, the sports hall and so on, which could improve their quality of life, bringing some goods closer to their environment. When it was discussed when, what would be the stadium and hall, what would this sports park be like, I heard a lot of skeptics, that maybe it wasn't good, that it would be better to deal with the refugee stadium and the railway stadium in Šiška, and something else. However, I have also heard more evidence that it is possible, however, that this structure, which is set up — only private capital — that public capital or the municipality enters this story only with land and in the way that it was set up; why not approach, as the "ordered state" should, in the so-called "ordered state", approach, that is to say, define certain priorities, see what is needed as a state and what it needs as a capital and what it eventually needs, such as sport, and also in some way culture, entertainment and other things, which will also happen in this stadium. And here it was understood that the work that the previous government had set out when it gave significant big projects, including this complex of Stožice, and now it is asking the same question and perhaps this is an opportunity and this interpretation can answer some of the questions and to these obviouss or concerns it rejects through actual numbers. Just as the response to this interpolation has been presented and some have explained about how, in the past period, not six years, but practically in the post-World War period, how sport infrastructure was actually built after Slovenia, then there is the question and the obvious why we have not so far, until this mandate of the city authority, which has been brave enough to go into this project, why we have not already put some of the necessary facilities in Ljubljana at high priority. After all, there are many instances of recent new constructions, from the Paediatric Clinic to the Oncology Institute and so on, virtually from the 1970s of a serious facility with this purpose, for the purposes of the whole of Slovenia, if I may say so why we have not stopped before. And in this part, it must be made clear: the answers given by the Ministry or the Minister to the fact that the city council was removed from this – perhaps all the compositions of the city authorities over the entire period, not only in the last six, ten, twelve years, have not been persistent enough in certain matters, but it has been possible, in other ways, to provide some level of this activity, but not as the appropriate time and needs might have. Data on co-financing of these facilities, here already said today, Hala Tivoli is the last such investment; that in Ljubljana 400 categorised athletes compared to some places such as Celje, Maribor and so on, which have received disproportionately more for infrastructure. Most importantly, it is obvious here that it was a custom to call and inform the congregations about how there would be no money. From all the material, from countless times said, it is clear, however, that it is a matter of various things. That it's completely different things and that it's total deception and incorrectness when you talk about it. If we subtract that money from calls for proposals or from European funds, and the money that the country is funding through the budget, we also have the Sports Foundation, which also co-finances these activities, and a number of other forms. And here it must be said that it is not acceptable for the public to take a picture; a picture that is here is a pile of money that the minister, by his will, has distributed or has not distributed by his fly or whatever. And even if you look at this invitation from the Secretary of State at 9. 6. You cannot link it to this invitation to tender in the way you are using this call for the distribution of these 9.4 million euro, you cannot distribute it in the way you imagine. Because it's not the same thing. I must say that I absolutely support coherent regional development and also communicate with people and many of the mayors with whom I have spoken and said that Ljubljana needs it and that when we run – at least those who have the will – we are dealt with in an corrective way and so on. But the fact that not everyone is always gathered at a time when they think they can get some money is a cruel fact. But when calling for us to do – and the minister is here, it seems to me that he gave me one answer forward, which is not related to interpolation, to do this review, what is the situation, what is the situation in this area, what is the situation in this area, that projects are doing and then what needs to be done, as we had years ago, I don't know, a health tolar, a school tolar, a defence tolar, a road tolar and I don't know what, we have to do again some checks, some priorities, and it will also be possible to secure funding for these facilities further. It is logical that Planica came in last year or now in 2008, as a matter of fact, to a priority, because there was an announcement there and there was an event planned for how long. I am firmly convinced that the Mariborians will be able to prepare the invitations in the way that it is necessary for the university to come. And that they will receive some money from the budget or through the Sports Foundation and so on, that they will further improve this infrastructure, and now in another area. We have heard that in areas such as football, such as the sports hall and other things, they have participated quite well in this review, and so it is also in other areas for other things. Here to have a bad conscience that someone made a call to try to arrange this money, to ensure where something was happening, something was working, to fertilize that money to the point that the object would be finished, to make it easier to live and so on, is an obvious one that does not hold back. And I have no bad conscience at all if any matter is ever done in a faster, better way, even after all with a common strength. The fact that we need those who believe it is right that Ljubljana is rushing with some projects, because it is in any case obvious to the people of Ljubljana that many years have not been done. Now that it's done, it's wrong again. Therefore, the interpolation, as set out in these three points where it refers to suspicions, is discarded. It is not possible to discuss these arguments seriously and I believe that what we can expect today is merely to strengthen the Minister's confidence that he was doing the right thing to take decisions, especially where some problems have been clearly identified, that money could not be spent for certain purposes. Above all, I am talking about these funds from the European Union. I do not want to hear in December and January, February next year, how we were ineffective, how we did not draw on European funds, how we will have to return them and so on. If we're working on drawing them, it's not right if we're working on not drawing them, it's wrong. Otherwise, there will also be an invitation to tender for Phoenix, so you will have another opportunity to explain from this address.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Vizjak, you are welcome to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is now several times, even earlier by the Ambassador of Kvetka Zalokar Orazem as well as by Member Tonet Anderlič, the project of the economic logistics centre Phoenix has been exposed. The project of the economic, logistical centre Phoenix is an economic project defined in the resolution of the national projects. It was a specific project in operational programmes and could be financed without a call for proposals. We have taken care of this because we have prepared it as a national project and this has been confirmed by the European Commission. When I looked earlier at the smiles on the side of some SD mayors, if we could also gather different ways to finance the Stožice and now we see why we did not choose these different paths and this through a public invitation to tender, the reason is very simple. It's been a while. The money had to be provided within one month. Within one month, it was necessary to provide money for the Contingencies when they had denied all private resources when they had denied the manoeuvre in order to provide the budget reserve and the like. However, European resources cannot quickly be provided from cohesion policy, as operational programmes need to be amended. This needs to be notified to the European Commission, not least this, of course, needs to be justified, and it takes time; we know that after the most "speedy" scenario, half a year. This, with respect, was the reason why the Government, or why Minister Lukšič, decided to make such a modest invitation to tender, which is now being sold as a transparent allocation of funds. This is not a transparent allocation of funds if the criteria are so restrictive that the five regions report anything. There was no answer to that today. I have not heard the answer either by the Minister or by the President of the Government! Then why public calls if almost half of the statistical regions are out in advance? Then why was the invitation not only for the remaining seven regions? Why wasn't that written like that? Why was it not, for example, an even more discriminatory criterion used? Do you not find it discriminatory, or do you feel that it is against the protection of competition and equality from the law to exclude five statistical regions from success under the criteria of the call for proposals? Your Honor, now I'm going to literally read you the invitation. You say it's a lie. You also have priority criteria in the invitation to tender. For the first time, regional criteria, state of sports infrastructure in the regions, possibility to get 20 points: (a) exercise surfaces – possible to get 10 points, with Goriška region 10 points, Osrednjeslovenska 9, Zasavska 8, Dolenjska 7, Savinjska 6, Notranjsko-kraška 5, Podnjanjeposavska 4, Gorenjska region 3, Koroška 2 points, Coastal-kraška 1 point, Podravska 0 point, Pomurska 0 points, because they have certain square meters of sports area per capita. This is in the invitation to tender. I didn't make that up. That's right! Second criterion: achieving financing of sports infrastructure from the budget so far – possible 10 points: Writes: Dolenjska can get here 10 points, Centralslovenska 9, Pomurska 8, Lowerposavska 7, Zasavska 6, Notranj-kraška 5, Goriška 4, Koroška 3, Coastal-kraška 2, Savinjska 1, Gorenjska 0 and Podravska 0. And then you have a third: achieving these horizontal goals, and there you can get 4 points. So, a total of 24. Then it says that every reporter in this section I mentioned should get at least half the points, that's 12. I'm telling you, it's theoretically impossible for five statistical regions to collect 12 points. These are: Podravska can theoretically get 4 points, Coastal-Kraška 7, Savinjska 11, Gorenjska 7, Koroška 9. That's all under 12. And they can't get 50% of the points. However, it says that if you do not reach 50% of the points, the application shall not be considered at all. Well? And you're telling me it's not discriminatory! I really don't know what might be an even more discriminatory condition. That's what we're reading. And the fact that the whole invitation to tender was both timely and substantive really directed at only one big project, which you really couldn't throw out through the conditions, you put them through these criteria, and the typical evidence for it was Koper. And you're the one who's arguing that there's been more stakes. Listen, I can probably apply for RTV. The role will be dismissed, but I can apply because anyone can. The submitted application is not yet the reason why the case is not discriminatory or the evidence that the case is not discriminatory. For me, the only evidence is that the matter is not discriminatory, which projects have been selected. And we know that, just one: Stožice Sports Park. And one more thing, Your Honor. Now I am also speaking to you not as a Member, but as a formerly active and now recreational athlete. If we need anything in Slovenia and the capital, these are modern training areas for top sport, for amateur sport, for recreation, for everyone. We need this because I believe in the principle of a healthy spirit in a healthy body. That is why the need for sport and sport is never enough, especially not in youth or in middle years. And that's why to abuse interpolation, czech, initiators or subscribers of interpolation you're against sport, against sports infrastructure, is a lie. We are building a sports hall in Brežice and would be happy to apply for such an invitation. But we couldn't. We can't because it'll be built when it's next because we'll take care of ourselves because no one else wants to take care of us. But that doesn't mean there won't be any sports infrastructure. I want to say that in Brežice we would probably need some euro from the European fund talking about cohesion policy sooner than in Ljubljana. Probably because we have a significantly lower GDP per capita, because we have wages per capita and per employee significantly lower, and probably this could be the way to discuss many more of your Member coming from Podravska, Coastal-Kraška, Savinja, Gorenjska, Koroška region. Probably. Some of you have been silent, I see that from Luke Yuri there the card has been hanging all day and is not in the slot, the question of whether it will come to an end, the question of whether it will support such a minister who ecclatanally excludes all projects from his region [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Your Honor, I have to take care of all Slovenians and Slovenians. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u49	Colleagues and colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u50	as opposed to you [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u51	Mr. Gorenak made me [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u52	who care more about your political co-conspirators [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u53	Mr. Visjak, I want to help you if you can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u54	Listen, look, calm your fellow Member [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u55	I want to help you if you can finish so much that I can ask all my colleagues and colleagues, including my client, not to speak and not fall into the word. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u56	It's okay. Listen, I like to discuss this a little bit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u57	I wanted to help you, but don't stop. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u58	That's not it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u59	And don't let anyone help you. [[...]] Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u60	Allow me, allow me, but this is not true, and I would particularly like to allow Mr Lukšič to help me with the financial construction of the sports hall, some other, not just the Stožice. I'd love to, but "someone's already gone with the cakes," we say. Yeah. Around these facts, there was not a single word about these discriminatory indications of this call. There was no single word by the Minister or by the Prime Minister to say, "No no no no no no no no no no no, all projects in this country can, which can meet these conditions in terms of size, achievement of national objectives, in this project". No, five projects, even if they were that big, even if they were that good, were eliminated in advance because they were from the wrong region. Why the wrong region? Because we're supposed to have enough exercise surfaces there and the state is supposed to put enough money in there. By the way, the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport, tell me if, in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Education and Sport has ever published a call for proposals where, as criteria, 10 points, provided criteria or any points, of the funds received so far from investment in sport infrastructure. It's a unique. It was the first time. Because it was in line with this specific invitation to tender. Yes, because we are reading this, honourable Member, we acknowledge that the conditions have been adapted to one project. And in the end, it actually turned out to be. This, however, respects the fact that the conditions are adapted to one project, that they are discriminatory, that they restrict competition, is contrary to Slovenian and European legislation. This is contrary to the Public Finance Act and, contrary to the Public Procurement Act, which is applied mutatis mutandis in accordance with Article 53 of the Public Finance Act, also for the allocation of State aid funds, cohesion policy funds. And Minister Luksic was making a fool of the proponents when he said we were referring to the Public Procurement Act. Yes, but what law should we refer to if it is to be applied mutatis mutandis in accordance with Article 53 of the Public Finance Act, including for procedures when it comes to granting State aid through tendering? And ergo – a violation of the law, a violation of the rules on the allocation of European cohesion policy funds, and I am confident that this will also be dealt with by any court at European level and that Slovenia will have to repay these funds. And then it will come to the table what you say we will not draw on European funds. And if that was indeed the wish to withdraw European funds as soon as possible, Mr Luksic would announce an invitation to apply for at least a larger selection. At the end of the day, I could only choose the Conch. Why did he have to take such discriminatory criteria with regard to the regional principle? Why did he have to write if he did not reach 50% of the points, the application is not being considered? If I hadn't written that, our obvious would have been torn apart. But when this is written in the invitation to tender, and this is a problem, then someone else could apply and reach some points, although in the end only the Stožice Sports Park would fall out. And the attitude to that. If you did not know at the Ministry of Education and Sport that you will have to finance this sport park, why you did not include it in the development programme plan of the Ministry of Education and Sport. You threw him out, in 2009 he was still like Leon Štuklja Sports Park, then you would change his name, give him the name Stožice Sports Park, because it was a substantive project, probably in another location and with another name. It's nothing. But we would keep it in the budget, in the development agenda plan. There was an item of EUR 50 million. In particular, I can tell you that there were still €19 million planned in 2009 and €7 million in 2010. It was also a rebalancing, March 2009. Then this project got lost and he was gone. You threw him out, and then you felt the need for July 2010 to put him in, but of course it was no longer possible to accept the rebalancing. Then this is how you financed him. Today, in fact, there was no speech by the proposers or by the Minister's reply, what is happening through this Regulation and through the procurement procedures for the works that have been carried out, because it is obvious that this project will also receive public funding. If we allocate public funds, tax money for Contingencies, all broadcasting should be in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Did GREP implement all the works, all those trucks, under the Public Procurement Act, and I don't know what else they were doing there? I don't know. That's not what this was about. Actually, there was no speech about that. We also said that the invitation to tender was on 2 July. The conclusion that the only municipality in the city was the one that had all of the 9.4 million euros was issued on 30 July of the same year and that the poor had to finish their work on 9 August because it was a technical review at the time. Thus, within eight days they were selected on a public invitation to tender and made and provided documentation, and the technical review was also successful for a partial building permit. Well, paint someone else!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text is by Mr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In opening, let me say that I do not intend to support Mr Igor Luksic's proposal for the discharge of the Minister for Education and Sport. It is probably true that the conditions for different public calls, including the call for co-financing of investments in sportrecreational infrastructure, could be more refined, which is also true of the criteria and the chronology of decision-making. It is also true that such activities, such as calls, are always the subject of political interpretations and evaluations, with party interests and views coming primarily at the forefront. It is also true that in such decisions to some extent, political interests or political interests, which may be different, reasonable and less justified, continue to prevail in addition to professional interests. In my view, if interests are considered to be reasonable, they are not entitled to object solely from a party's interest. We all know that we cannot avoid situations like today's debate and interpolation as such, because it is an integral part, as I have repeatedly said, of a political theatre. The fact is that, despite the extensive presentation or justification of the interpretation, the arguments of the applicants have not convinced me that, to a large extent, certain aspects of which they will have to be competent have opened up to me, indeed, all those competent in the future are much more attentive. That a predetermined scenario in the award of tender funds in this particular case was merely a hypothesis which one party claims is a fact and the other firmly rejects it. I am pleased, however, that we all agree that sports facilities of local and national importance are necessary. However, we probably all agree that their funding must be transparent, fair and legal. This High Assembly will also adopt a political position and decision in this case, which nevertheless will not evaluate the interpretation from a legal and substantive point of view. While interpellation is focused on a specific matter, Members must decide, in my opinion, on the basis of its overall activity, in full, except in cases where there is undoubtedly evidence of a concrete guilt caused by social harm. The latter, in my opinion, as I have already pointed out, in this case we cannot talk. In the broader context, I consider the work of Minister Lukšić to be good, given the circumstances, and this also applies to his delicate attitude towards the evaluation and upgrading of the bilingual school model in Prekmurje, which I also know in detail in the context of his activities. In my decision on interpolation, the arguments predominate in support of the Minister, and I will vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u64	Dearly respected colleagues and colleagues! Here's what I'm gonna say. We're witnessing the farsi again today. Farsi, who in my opinion repeats herself too often in the National Assembly. This is the practice of the biggest opposition party to accuse others who are not members of the National Assembly, who are not members of the Government, through democratically elected representatives of this authority. That's not what I'm saying. Of course, Minister Lukšič is not a real target today. We all know who the real target is - the real target is Ljubljana, the real target is Mayor Jankovic and the real target is Stožice. And if one way or another, the proponents say it's not true. Yes, it is! Let's see. The practice of this indirect accusation, which I am very concerned about and would like to discuss on this occasion, has already begun with the so-called indictment, the attempt of the President of the Republic's constitutional indictment. At the time, he was not the target of the President of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk. At that time, Mr. Tomaž Ertl, former head of the former State Security, was the real target. Then we are already with this Ljubljanaan when he became the target of Mr Jankovic's request for the discharge of our President of the National Assembly. Let us remember why you wanted the discharge of the President of the National Assembly at that time: because he did not want to invoke what would be contrary to our Rules of Procedure, an extraordinary meeting where we would talk long and wide about the Council, about Ljubljana, about all these matters. No, that was the problem, of course. And so it is today. Today we are talking again about things you have been talking about for a very long time. And now there's something about this discrimination that we've been talking about today. Do you know who is discriminated against? Ljubljana is discriminated against, but not Ljubljana as the city where I live, but Ljubljana as the capital of this Republic of Slovenia. For 75 years we couldn't build a stadium here. We have now received a stadium after fifty-fifty years, a new stadium that corresponds to the times in which we live. After forty-five years we have received one decent hall in which, my colleagues have already spoken today, the world stars of art, various fields of art, sports events, and everyone who has not been able to come to Slovenia at all. I was very pleased that occasionally I could accompany such events, sports or cultural, in Maribor and Celje. And I tell you, I have been very supportive of the construction of these facilities, and I would also like to help on every occasion as a member of every local community to get more recreational facilities. But the matter we're talking about today is completely different. And if people who don't know anything about it were talking about it, my neighbor, who's kind of not into politics, and he's never been to work in the structures of power, I'd say, okay. But people who were ministers, secretaries of state four years ago, and I don't know what else, and they know exactly how these calls are being made and how European funds are being allocated. Some of my colleagues will discuss the details of these calls. I will not go into this now, even though I know a lot about it, because I myself have been employed in the European Affairs Service, which was responsible when I was working there, for the distribution of European funds. And these European funds have been distributed transparently. If you weren't, gentlemen, why didn't the Court of Auditors come forward? Why didn't the anti-corruption commission come forward? Why hasn't anyone else answered and said something's wrong with it? No, we politicians, Members here will find out what is legal and what is illegal. This is nonsense, and as I said at the beginning, this is a farce that you have done well in the SDS, and the faithful Yelinčičov SNS supports you in doing so. Today, of course, I will not particularly defend Minister Luksic, because Minister Luksic was very good at defending himself and telling all the facts that were perfectly clear. And I won't try to tell you if I go back to that part of the Prime Minister's introduction, it's two and two four. The answer was clear. If you don't know it's four, no one can tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Of course, it's very difficult for me to listen to some of the pronouns, I'm trying. I will also try to be polite and correct, and I hope you will listen to me too. Of course, my performance will consist of two parts. In the first part a few responses and in the second part a little bit more about the content of the interpolation itself. In the beginning, the minister himself performed an arrogant, rude and offensive act. If I were to do this to the opposition Members, one would still understand in part. But the minister insulted a wider circle of people, just like my forerunner now, who is talking about the stadium in Ljubljana and all the other things and about the 1970s, how long it took to wait. Your Honor, I invite you to those places where they don't know what a school stadium with asphaltic surface is. I can invite you to those places because I live alone where they don't know what a decent school is. I can invite you to places where something falls on their heads in school, not for 70 years, but even for a longer period. And apparently under this government, they won't be waiting for anything. Of course, Mr President, if you'll stop time, please give them replicas or whatever they already have.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u67	Please help all those who wish to complete this session, and do not speak. We all know Dr. Gorenak. For every word you say, there'll be a break for the next few minutes. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u68	And for the time being, I'd like to ask if we respect. Minister Lukšič started talking about how the government's meeting, at which he should be present, is being held at the same time, and how the senseless interpretation against him is taking place at the same time. Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, who set the date for the interpretation, who sets the government's meetings, perhaps the opposition? No, no, no. And nothing is special in terms of the leadership of the National Assembly that the meeting is going on today, so you decided. Let me remind you of another interpolation. At the time when the previous government was intensively preparing for the Presidency of the European Union, you were preparing intensively for the presidency, together you made an intervention against Minister Matei. And he defended himself, a few days before taking up his part of his responsibility in the Presidency of the European Union and not a regular meeting of the Government, for example. Interpellation was based on the Strojans you exported to Europe and back there. Just like Patricia. Ladies and gentlemen, but was that fair? Where is your voice today when the French take planes to Rome to Romania? He's not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u69	Mr. Gorenak, I must warn you, too. Stick to the topic of interpolation that's on the agenda today, not something that happened a few years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u70	I'm doing comparisons between this interpolation and that interpolation. It would therefore be right for you to call in that sense, and not only in the sense of defending your minister. The minister was insulting as if there were some kids who wrote this. He appreciated how good it was that two years ago the people made the decision, as it was. Of course it is. But unfortunately, only every four years does the people have the right to give their voice, and I hope that it will also be judged by the minister, who is being interpreted today in two years' time. He talked about how this interpellation was an intervention in the example of young people, etc. Yeah, how's that? His job is the one that shows us how we can't do anything. If this is an example for young people, then I fear that his work is an example for young people. Of course, I have to say, when I read and listen to the minister, and when I read two of the regime media that report this day from this Chamber that something has happened in this room: the minister has performed successfully and has effectively defended all the readings from the interpretation. There was nothing else going on in this hall. Mr. Minister, you can be in power for another 60 years. This is probably some kind of reality, but luckily I'm only talking about two media outlets, and the rest of them can write something else that's going on in this room. Let's go a little further. The point was made to the opposition that the problem was that we were writing some interpretations, etc. Yeah, who wrote more? We're in the third interpolation today. But as many as the previous opposition has put in, add together not to talk about the content. The target was Mr Ertl, not Mr Türk. Yes, I wish Mr. Ertle peace in retirement. Our target, if you want to be in the concoctions, was the unethical, immoral, unfair conduct of the President of the country, not Mr Ertl, who we can wish him a peaceful pension. Of course, adjusting things as you go, because that's possible, you can do this for a while, another minister. The Prime Minister of the Government came here and stood up for himself. A few months ago, he stood up for Mrs. Kresalov. Thank God! For me alone, it becomes an integral part of this ruling policy. In fact, until recently, I have made an outstanding distinction between him, his actions, his principles, and what his ministers and Members advocate. In his favor, of course. If it is the same for him, if what Minister Kresalova did for him is all right, what Minister Luksic is doing today is fine, then he is taking on his share of the responsibility. That's a de facto fact. And those who say today that one and one is two or two and two are four, you know, people can also calculate with primary school that what the minister did and what the President of the Government took on is ordinary crime. You know, 136, 125 and 11,000 in my pocket. If the Prime Minister advocates it, let him defend it. Last but not least, there is something else to ask the Prime Minister. He says, I've set up an entire influence within the framework of marriage, etc. options. Actually, there's nothing to read here. But you know, this influence is in practice expressed by gentlemen coming close to the government, not ministers, because it's rude for them to go to Banka Celje and say that the president said, "You'll give $10 million for the Coins." But not just the Bank of Celje, including all the other banks. Because they're walking around with some paper like that that says, this bank is so, so much, she's so much. The president may have had good intentions, but the reality of his people is not right. No one can come to any legal entity today but La Banka Celje, Ljubljana Bank or anyone and say, you will give that much. If this is the aid specifically to Bank Celje, 10 million were ordered. [[...]] And then I saw in the cut that Bank Celje really gave away 10 million. So this is the influence of the President of the Government. Maybe he doesn't know about it. I'm not accusing him. But the performance was like that. The minister's defense stated that there were only two conditions. There were two conditions, but he got the one that was pre-arranged. That was Ljubljana. It's a de facto fact, and we can't and can't go through it. You can't even go past the inspector issuing a roadblock because those who don't have anything to eat and who lose their property would like to strike in front of the stadium. I'm talking about the government in general, not this particular case, not you. The fact that Minister Žarnic issues a regulation that changes the conditions for them to meet is also a good one. This is not obvious to the minister, but it is a general representation of the state that this government is doing and nothing else. It is not possible to pass through some facts, but you can claim one way or another, and the Minister, that is your concern, at the start when you were gone, you have shown an extremely humiliating attitude towards the opposition. In this line, at least as far as Mr Vissiak is concerned, there are people who have led their part of the Presidency within the European Union. And as I know, they were praised for it. It wouldn't suggest that we have such an offensive attitude toward these people. It doesn't show you to have such an abusive attitude toward these people. Let's go down, I'll say, with your actions on the ground, as they call it, don't walk or fly in the air because you're in power. The area is still fleeting. Unless someone's planning any other measures to make it no longer passable. But for now, it's still fleeting. Tomorrow, like today, Mr Visjak, Member of Parliament, or I don't know what, lecturer. And walk in the clouds today with the insults of people, not the self-inflicted ministers, but in general, with the insults of Members, the writers of interpretation, or the people, if you will. You can't go beyond the facts that I just have to repeat briefly from the interpretation. Today you can convince me that there were one means, and that there were other means, because part of your policy and part of people will believe you too, probably part will believe you. But I would like to remind you that I do not know so far, but I have been taught by those who know more about these calls, about these funds, as I know, never before has the invitation to tender been made for buildings that are already in construction. I am talking about calls for more money so that they can also finance buildings that are already in construction. That never happened. But it's happened now. If I only remind you of some of the calls from the previous time, until the period of the previous government. For example, one such invitation to tender was issued on 30 May 2008, a million and a half euros, and 15 million were placed at that time, starting part 1. Seven. 2009, end of 2010. This means that some funding was announced in 2008, which will last from July 2009 until the end of 2010, which is perfectly normal. However, your invitation to tender was made to cover buildings already in construction and must be completed less than half a year after the invitation to tender. Yes, please! How can you do a little more woodwork at this time, not a stadium? After all, someone else could have applied if he had been pre-arranged to make the call the way it was. Another invitation to tender was issued at 10. Ten. 2008, so just before the elections, including a million and a half euros, range up to 9 million, start part 1. Seven. 2009, end of 2011. Yeah, that's something normal. It is not, however, that the invitation to tender stated that it is possible to finance buildings that are already in construction. But then you could count them, at least as many as 45 million; they could be counted from the plane, at least so large. There are still some things that cannot be overlooked in this regard. Look, you attacked the budget reserve first. You'd probably be able to get it if you weren't afraid of the finance minister or, say, react properly. But since that didn't work out, in the shortest possible time, let's make a call that's written right on someone's skin. See, I would react exactly the same if it were some stadium in Maribor, Koper or anywhere, if the call was de facto made to match only one stadium. I have no problems with Ljubljana, not last week in Ljubljana. It is not possible, however, that the President of the Government - because this has already happened many times when the President of the Government says one thing - ministers do another. The President of the Government claims 16. 6. 2010 that there will be no euro. Three weeks or fourteen days after that, the ministers immediately denied him, as in many other cases. Dear Minister, you have somehow concluded or said that you are working in the interests of all citizens. Yeah, I want it to be that way, too. Then, from your ministry in other parts of the country – and I will not mention my endings, not to say that I speak populistally – then even in those parts of this country, because our children do not yet know what asphalt is on the football field, I will not specifically mention my end, because you also visited such an end there in Prekmurje where they do not know what a sports prop is in some sports hall because they do not have it. You know, it would be good if we took care of them and not just [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You'll get your word, now I've got my time, because you've got your time. You would do well to take care of all people, not least you are the minister of all people, the minister responsible for some area you are covering in this country, and you are responsible for this area. The formal mechanisms are here in the National Assembly, the President of the Government has formal mechanisms and so on. But we all have temporary mechanisms, both the National Assembly and the President of the Government. Those more effective mechanisms have people, people who are allowed to vote every four years. And I believe that at that time they will also be able to incorporate this into their decisions. And that's the way it is. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Now I'm gonna start right back here, which stabbed me the most. That in the SDS they imagine that football courses should be asphalted. We are working on making football courts such that weed or artificial grass on them, along with the Football Association of Slovenia. In the last two years, we've made 10 such playgrounds. If you want to asphalt them, then God protect us from such football, unless it's some little football where some want asphalt courses, but some health staff advises them. I would like to say something else about the support that the Minister received from the SDS in order to work in the Ministry. The minister came to the Ministry and found that there was some disorder there, at least in one segment. He was employed at the Ministry by a man in the Sports Department, which was transferred in 2006 from one other Ministry to the Ministry of Sport. And already during the ministry of Comrade Beast, towards the end, procedures have been introduced to review what is happening to this fellow, whether he is going to work or just going to "stamp" as he says. And they found in three examinations, even during the time of a fellow Beast, that he only walks around "stamping" and that he does not work, does not do things, does not do things. The procedure was that after I got here, they kept on running, and they let me know. And how did the SDS delegation react at that time? Do you remember how? I'll tell you. In the National Assembly, you requested a meeting of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights. The former Minister of the Beast said, "Lani have human rights too." But that's how you imagine order in this country? Please! That's the situation you left behind, yes. And you're defending that. This is not right for these citizens, and not for this authority, and not for what you are doing and, say, for example, the joint effort of the National Assembly. There must be order in the country, there must be order everywhere, but let's start with ourselves. I'm a regular professor in college, and I'm also committed to these criteria, which are linked to some kind of intellectual level. And when you tell me not to insult my colleagues. I don't insult my colleagues, but I'm talking about this product. And we wrote in there, and I'm not going to repeat here, because I think it's beneath the honor of this National Assembly, that I'm reading these formulations about a randomly flooded coincidence that happens three times in the text and that has absolutely nothing to do with what is Slovenian, which is something that is decent in a public discourse. That's why I'm talking about this product, not what colleague Vizjak did in his time. And we are all respectful – it is not right to dispute with the Prime Minister of the Government or with Minister Žarnic when they are not here. It's not fair, you've chosen the agenda, you've given the interview to Minister Lukšić, you've chosen the agenda item, that is, the invitation to tender, and here you're talking about everything that comes to your mind. It's not right! It's bad for this country to be led like this. And when we talk about what someone's doing, let's start with ourselves. If we tell people just what comes to our mind, what will happen? If we're going to be doing politics here, like some of our colleagues said, "I heard, I talked, I found out I don't know what." Comrade Jelinčič said that 66% would be less funding for top sports programmes. That's not true! There'll be exactly as many of them last year! The government has accepted this today. If the National Assembly refuses to do so — all right! I hope not. There'll be as many as last year, so a few more than five million. Look what anyone's saying on the street, there's no argument for running politics. If this is what you represent as your programme, okay, we will face it again in 2012, but I hope that people will not accept it. What's the record of this call? That he's working by the law, working by the book. It is. And there's one here you're defending, not that it's wrong. This one should not run; the tender should be such that no one should run. Please! That's the main story. The choice is another story. You're saying that the invitation was not corrected, not a choice. We can also talk about choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, other associates! I have to say, I was a little scared at the beginning when I listened to the playwright, the playmaker of these interpellation candidates, who was saying that we were going to spend today in the office. And then later, through the discussions, mainly the interpellation proponents, I realized that it was some fictitious interpolation that doesn't come from facts and arguments, but from everything else. If Mr Vizjak wants to hear it, then I will say out loud that you are wrong about the charges on this paper, about which I will give qualifications a little later. It's not about a formal invitation to tender. It is not that this is a unique one, and it is the first invitation to tender that has complied with the regional criteria. And it's not true that it's the one who's making the first call for buildings that are already in construction. I would remind you in 2007, you introduced this criterion and you financed the second phase of the Maribor Stadium in the same way that we are funding Ljubljana today. And that's it. And that's a fact. That's a fact! And in that fact, you're turning the story around today. Therefore, of course, I say that this is a fictitiously written interpolation and I will try to show this fiction at some points. Otherwise, I will start again when I have said this several times in the debates on interpolation that interpolation itself is such an important mechanism of political control over the work of the government and individual ministers that it requires the responsible attitude of those who write interpolation and those who advocate or respond to the facts and arguments set out in this interpolation. It is said to be a two-way responsibility to this important parliamentary instrument called interpolation. The generalized accusation, which has been innumerable today — for this speaker and for the bench — is largely by the proponents, does not support this important institute. And if from this perspective I assess the content of this interpretation, I must find that this interpretation is very weak for some serious political account with Minister Luksic. Moreover, given that this Chamber has had the opportunity to participate in the previous term and in this mandate already in several interpolations, I allow myself to say that this interpretation with such an explanation, whether in 68 points or in 15 or 5 when we received it, is one of the most "shalabaiser" written papers, which means that this interpretation is more than half-hearted, and that those who wrote it — I do not know who wrote it — do not know much or have trouble justifying any abuse and offence of the minister who did it. For most, 90% of the interpolation is written about everything else, just not the crime and abuse that the minister is supposed to have committed. This is why this fictional content, although Minister Lukšič is supposed to play a major role in this follow-up, since we are not the last to interpel the Minister, has received only a side role through the explanation and the scenario itself of today's meeting as well as many other preparatory meetings of the committees and committees held this year in the National Assembly. This year's local elections have played a major role in the capital, this is in Ljubljana. And that's the content of most of the things written in this interpretation. This is a school case where the interpolation institute is used for the pre-election battle of the largest opposition SDS party in the capital. Although the former school minister of the same party, today's MEP, Mr Zver, spoke in 2006 and in particular warned that the construction of sports infrastructure in Ljubljana was important and that he believed in the construction of the stadium and appealed to all political actors not to abuse it for pre-election purposes. No one listened to him then, in 2006, and no one listens to him today. More! His client is even the bearer of this topic in the pre-election competition in Ljubljana. And it is because of such a scenario that most of the charges relate not to the invitation to tender of the Ministry of Education and Sport, but to the investment of the Stožica Sports Facility in its entirety. There are very few substantiations in support of the accusation, what has been said today, on the violation of the law on public procurement, the drafting of a public tender, in particular the infringements of the principle of ensuring competition between tenderers, the restriction of applicants, the unequal position of applicants and so on. Therefore, in particular, in my view, it is an interesting part of the interpretation of interpolation when the applicants talk about the Minister's moral dispute when you talk about ruling elites and the elite country, which has nothing to do with the direct violation of this call for proposals. Because you talk about it, and you write those who might have already resorted to self - examination. Those who have these moral standards and those values are only a front for an excuse when there is a political "faith" such as interpretation in the National Assembly and today it will take 13 hours. Therefore, your 11th interpolation point is illustrative, which tells us what you think is interesting as a proposal for interpolation and what needs to be asked because it is just a pre-election time. The Minister at this 11th point in this extensive interrogation does not even mention that in point 59 of the explanatory statement, he is declared morally challenged because his actions are lowering wages because people are forgiven and so on and because he does not sign off competitions for projects that would be intended for them and would have received it previously and would have helped those youngest, elementary school children, students and so on. This is how the explanation and content of this interpolation is written. In short, if you have read the interpolation correctly, you can quickly find that the writers have splintered whole paragraphs and points from previous interpolations. In fact, you keep two, three places even a woman's sex. I see that Minister Lukšič is still Dr Igor Lukšič – at least I believe in this. And that many paragraphs and points are repeated three times and so on. So you croaked on your own with the goal of making an impression on the seriousness of the contents of this interpolation and therefore I call it'salabaissing'. The second question, with which it is worth to be politicized and politicized as Ljubljana is now 30, 35 years old, then let me just mention that at the only great sports facility that was built in Ljubljana in the 1960s, one of the builders was my father and he always asked me, until death, when will we build a new hall? Now he's gone so that he can see this hall at headquarters. In the second paragraph, you wrote that you are wondering whether this is a politically oriented project that threatens the stability of the financial system in Slovenia, that this is Jankovic's project and so on. It is good that those who are left behind can look at the documents in the archives where they are stored and stored. These documents say the following. The Stožice Sports Park is not a project of Jankovic and is not a monument to Jankovic, but is a monument to Slovenian sport at all. The idea of a stadium in Stožice is old, you won't believe it, 42 years old, I repeat, 42 years old! Marko Schleimer, Republic Secretary for Urbanism, made the first plan for a new stadium in Stožice in 1968. This idea reoccurred intensely in 1996, when I was sitting alone in the city council when the university hall was supposed to be built. I would warn you that Mr Rupel was mayor at the time and Mr Dimitrij Kovacic was President of the City Council. Important officials of the largest opposition SDS party. Even then, the creative architectural solutions were prepared by the same authors as today, and it was always the Ministry of Education that lacked its share of funding. That three-partite contract of good intentions, which was signed at the time, predicted, I think from the school ministry, not to hold me for percentages, not even close to 50%. Therefore, for years it has been an investment of national importance, which has shifted from mandate to mandate and has received its light after the elections in 2006. In short, let me finish. Despite the fact that you are trying to accuse the Minister on the basis of these accusations, the interpellationers have also tried to resolve him, of course you have not convinced me by these arguments. On the contrary! I think he did the right thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Procedurally wants Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. President! I think it is the duty of the President to try to steer the debate in such a way that it is not offensive. In doing so, I would like to remind you that a young man, when he spoke to a person about the conduct or conduct of'shalabajzer', was charged with socially beneficial work by a court decision. The same terminology was used shortly before by a representative of the largest parliamentary group. And in view of this, Mr Vice-President, Mr President, that you are a lawyer, perhaps to closely monitor what is happening in the Slovenian legal space, including in the area of verbal disqualifications, I expected you to warn your fellow Member that he is acting and discussing in the National Assembly with respect to fellow Members. If the term "shalabajzer" is qualified in some process to be remedied by socially beneficial work, then you should probably also react and point out the respectful conduct of your fellow Member. The Minister could also be reminded of the respectful treatment and attitude of members of the opposition. Interpellation has been made in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which are laid down for the work of the National Assembly and which are set out in this booklet. It would be good for them, even if it is the Minister of Education and Sport — even more important to be stumbled by the Minister of Education and Sport, because he is to be at the head of an educational and educational process when he comments on something he has not even looked at and he does not know why and how an interpretation can be applied. And you, as chairman, should also point out this to the Minister, who is a member of your client's intelligence, at least that's how he qualified himself, after the party's congress was not elected Vice-President to use his expertise in his performance by not insulting anyone in this Chamber. We have put in an interpolation because there have been violations in this process. It was explained very precisely where the violations were. If colleagues are members of the "farbenblind" coalition, they say they do not see that they do not want to see without seeing, then this is understandable. However, I warn you, Mr Vice-President, that you are in charge of the meeting to end such discussions of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your debate wasn't business. You warned me about how to run the session. I will lead the session as I have done so far: when I assess that this is any kind of insult, I will draw the attention of the one who talks about it. I've never had a grade like that before. As for the word "shalabajzer," I must say I don't know exactly what it means. However, I know that in public and in practice – Mr Kumer, please, you don't speak over the table, even for you. As I say, I don't know what it means, but I know it's used in public. And I've never heard of being punished before. As for borders, whether offensive or not, you know, also by your fellow Members, there were words that could be at the border of the offending one. Let us therefore give each one first thought to how we act ourselves, and we will be able to reach the end of this session in peace. Before I give my word to the Minister, one more request. I know this is difficult, but please, especially my colleagues in the SD, do not yell over the table, but the opponents do the same, because this only makes it difficult for the normal work of this assembly. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you. Those of us who are familiar with the political process know why this intervention by Mr Tank was necessary – because it shows very poorly their arguments and then begins with the procedure and the prosecution. What bothers me about this material, not with – I'll say again, it's not about qualifications, it's about qualifications for this material. Look, this material is highly flawed. Explanation. Look, even if we were to do, say, a lecture, what we had done, and it was accessible, you can see that it wasn't lectured. I don't know if this violates the law on the public use of Slovenian, but this should also be looked at. Since it is the material of the National Assembly, not the free file of anyone, it is a state, it is necessary to respect the state. When we communicate with each other, we communicate in the Slovenian language, officially. That's one thing. Another matter is the style of writing or purpose. If the objective is to explain the reasons, then this should be an explanation of the reasons, not that there are not any explanations of the reasons there until the ninth point, but that there are other reasons. That's what I'm talking about. Then it's about copying parts of the text. It's just not right. Look, it's not right for this country, not for me, personally. Because I'm unruly. Look, there's a small difference; I've never described myself as an intellectual, I've just said that I'm, that's a fact, a regular professor at the university. And I'd like to put it this way, because maybe someone is watching us, what's the important difference between what I'm defending and maybe what you're defending. Opinion is too small; what I think of myself or how I call myself is one thing, and what I have achieved, what the university recognizes, is another thing. So that's the fact, and that's the other opinion. I didn't call for anyone myself, that's me. Look, what's happening here in interpolation, but there's a lot of opinions, assumptions, suspicions, suspicions, is the engagement of one potential fear, which now rules in the country; but not the government because of this government, the government, because of the crisis. Instead of walking together and showing these people, the government and the National Assembly that we are working for the good of this country, we are proving that everything here is suspicious, strange. Earlier it was even heard — beware, this is a bad thing — that there is no one in this country to be trusted, so you don’t trust yourself anymore. That's a bad thing. If we, who are most responsible in this country, sow suspicion of all who exist in this country and of all who are legally and legitimately elected, including us. That's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr Vice President, I hope that I will not get a warning or a reminder. Once again, I would like to point out that we are talking about the text of the interpretation, not the motioners. I'm joining this evaluation myself. So we're talking about the text, not the written interpretation. But it is true that the text itself says much about writings, but we cannot avoid it, and this is a resultant assessment. In order not to be offensive, let me say that the interpretation is so good that it would be good to write it on one face, mark it, write an explanation, and we can buy it at the bookstores for the next opportunity, because it's similar to this interpretation. The texts are repeated, even the genders do not change as has already been established. The whole paragraph, the whole point is written as it was written in the previous interpretation, replacing only the name of the minister, everything else remains the same and forgetting to replace the sex where the previous interview was made by Mrs Katarina Kresal and today by Dr. Igor Lukšič. So, another one of the interpretations. I would suggest that we consider that we may have just one point in the 2010 local elections and that we include everything that is bothering us in this country and take advantage of all this for the purposes of the electoral campaign. It gives us suspicions, assumptions, conclusions, logical conclusions, which are flawed, insinuations, information that we acquire just like that: talk, hear, think that it is, maybe it will. All of this is essentially just a guess, and it was said on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, it is a cohesion fund that would otherwise be returned to the European budget. We are therefore prepared to interpel the Minister, to repeat the stories every day, in order to ensure that these funds do not invest the project that Slovenia needs, not only Ljubljana, nor the mayor, this project will stand when this mayor is no longer there, when the composition of the National Assembly will no longer be so. But you are willing to do everything you can to ensure that these funds do not go into this account, even at the cost of returning to the European budget. I really don't get it, and I can't understand it. If we take away that half of the points of interpolation where the Minister is not mentioned at all, and part of those copied from interpolation, as I have already said against the Minister, we are left with only the prejudices of the callers arising from the collective forgetfulness of the past. This included, in particular, the largest opposition parliamentary group. The Ministry of Education and Sport is thus able to co-finance the project of the most developed regions with European funds. In doing so, of course, the interpelling proponents remain silent that the 2006 strategic documents define European funds as one of the most important sources of co-financing for sport infrastructure in the capital. In 2006! They report to the Ministry of Education and Sport that they favoured a specific project by setting selection criteria. In doing so, they remain silent that on the basic basis for drawing on European funds created in 2005-2007, I repeat – again, 2005-2007 – the very criterion of sport per capita is defined as one of the key problems that does not allow the integration of sport as a work in the tourist offer. They report to the Minister for Education and Sport that he is co-financing the project at an inappropriate time. Of course, I am interested in when the time is right in Slovenia to finance such projects, and let us take this as a rhetorical question. However, they remain silent that in the 2008 budget change – again for 2008 – funds for the construction of the stadium in Ljubljana were foreseen, namely EUR 10 million by 2010. So your predictions are almost coming true. Almost as good as Laska. The demands for greater investment dynamics by the state budget in this case are vehement, I cannot say otherwise. You report to the Minister for Education and Sport that he is co-financing a project with low productive jobs. Minister! In doing so, please be silent that this project, under another name, in the 2006 document – I remind you again of the anniversary: 2006 – is included in the first development priority with the title Competition Economy and faster growth. Today this is obviously no longer part of the gravity centre of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. It is a matter of deception or as colleague Majda Potrata said: the essence is invisible to the eyes. But some randomly flooded coincidences are in my eyes, and, of course, I can't. Let me end this performance by expressing the concern I share with you about the violation of workers' rights. You're also talking about hungry workers. What the hell's the minister got to do with these workers? Someone else is responsible for this. Is Minister Lukšič also responsible for those protesting outside the Vegrad administrative building? And they're actually hungry, literally hungry! So do not play with these words, for others must then take care of these workers. And this isn't just happening now, it's stories from the past that you've co-formed in the past, and now we need to find solutions. And I propose that we work together to find solutions, not to abuse the plight of some for political purposes. Once again, Minister Luksic certainly has nothing to do with this. However, in order to be able to travel back to Velenje, where I am returning every day, I have to add something – this is probably clear to you at this time, even in terms of the quality of the arguments – and I have to add something here, because the data that was somehow ripped out of context is not complete and someone might get the feeling that the Ministry of Education and Sport, led by Dr. Igor Lukšič, and led by Dr. Milan Zver, was a completely unfavorable city municipality of Velenje and the Shaleska Valley. It's not like that! Even in the previous mandate under Dr Milan Zvera's tactics, it was not unfavorable, and today it is not unfavorable, because there is a lot of investment, but, of course, the sources of investment are very different, happening in Velenje. And just because someone will not "ask me about health" where I am at home, let me say that they are working properly with the Ministry of Local Communities and that there are many projects that are being implemented during this time or will be carried out in the coming years also in the municipality of Velenje. I don't know if you'd like to make a phone call. Hello, it's normal for a person to make a phone call, but a colleague doesn't break up with a hall. Good. But that adds to what I've said before, how I feel about the writings of this interpolation. There were a lot of things, they count in millions of euros, but I don't make an exception. I said: in the previous mandate and in the current mandate, investments are taking place and it is not possible to conclude and draw conclusions that are not sustainable. I ask so kindly that we are accurate in this reference, because it is right that in such a serious matter as interpretation against the minister – any one, we provide specific information, but not only be concrete, should they be correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! The day before I spoke in this House, I said that sport rarely finds the opportunity to be on the agenda of the Slovenian Parliament, unfortunately it is also more of a foreign role today, and so, a little in a strange position, so I really hope that one day we will say something clever about sport. Of course, I can tell you right from the start that I won't support interpolation. I believe that the interpretation of parliamentary abuse for pre-election purposes is also an attempt to blackmail, antagonism between the urban and rural world, between Ljubljana and the rest of Slovenia. I can also argue this with your input of interpretation, as, for example, the mayor of Jankovic and Minister Lukšić are mentioned in the interpretation of Ljubljana, for example, on 17 occasions. Which means he's on the wallpaper of Ljubljana. It is also interesting that most of the words in this interpretation are 'we should', 'we assume' and so on, which, of course, says that it does not rely on arguments. This also reminds me, because I was already a little older, years ago, to the time before the 2004 elections, when there were also extraordinary meetings, interpretations and so on, dealing with Ljubljana, Ljubljana's problems. This seems to be a topic on which we all know, we have a lot to say about Ljubljana and it seems that everything is wrong in Ljubljana. Of course, I would invite all colleagues who are so eager to discuss Ljubljana to change their place of residence, to go to Ljubljana permanently, to the elections to the City Council and then to decide about Ljubljana at appropriate levels. Indeed, we do not usually interfere in local policy in other areas. If you'll excuse me, otherwise it's been said more than once today about the arrangement of the calls, it's the Minister, I think he's already explained twice, and let me tell you how I feel about it. Personally, I think the conditions in the invitation to tender were the same for all. More than once it was said: four roles, two substantively and formally perfect. And I don't think there were any mistakes. Finally, the Green Light for the implementation of this call was given by the service, the SVR, which concludes whether the proposed instrument, the invitation to tender complies with the criteria and legislation. Personally, I do not think it is at all dispute that between the criteria that - "which I am supposed to say" - favour the central Slovenian region, also the proportion of the exercise areas per capita and the funding so far from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the document, which is the basis for the selection of programmes submitted by Slovenia under your Government by Janez Janša to the European Commission, refers specifically to the operational programme for strengthening regional development potentials for the period 2007 to 2013, as one of the key problems which does not allow this area to be integrated into services and tourist offer to an appropriate extent. Let me give you some information, although I hope we all know them. In the national sport programme, one of the directions until 2010 is to provide 0.5 square metres of covered space and 3 square metres of unprotected space for sport activities to the population. According to the Ministry of Education, Ljubljana has only 1.6 square metres and only Zasavje and Goriška are behind it. All other statistical regions are ahead of Ljubljana. Not to mention the resources spent on individual residents for sport affairs during the period 1995-2009. The average in Slovenia of 28.74 euros per capita was spent, in Ljubljana 10.6. For example, in Maribor 64.77, in Celje 73.94 euros and so on. Koper, who was also in the game for funds from this tender, is about at the level of the country, 28.65, but as you can see, far above Ljubljana. And I think Ljubljana needs to look slowly in this light of the lack of sports facilities. It was only this year that Ljubljana received a suitable stadium, a suitable sports hall, a modern and technologically advanced stadium. Before that, the last major sports facilities, Hala Tivoli, have been spoken for nearly 50 years. Smaller objects, such as the Stock Hall and so on, have only been prepared in Ljubljana during this period, but there were no such capital facilities. And there are indeed statements from a colleague of Dusan Kumra, who spoke just before me, since when in Ljubljana these efforts to build both the stadium and the halls have been made. However, there has always been a complication, there have always been various problems and I am very glad that this construction has taken place and that we can be proud of these two buildings in Ljubljana. But it has been said many times today – this is not just the current mayor’s project, it is a project that we have been conducting for several years. After all, the land for these purposes was purchased in 2001 on the basis of the conclusions of the City Council of Ljubljana. “ The Bible’s Viewpoint: “The Bible’s Word Is Good, ” 2 / 15 6. 2001 and 2. Seven. 2001 and I can say that all city councillors, including your colleagues, unanimously supported these decisions on land purchases for construction of buildings in Stožice. However, since it was already a question that during these times we should think again about Plečnik Stadium and so on, I can say that I would also be glad that this stadium is being renovated and dedicated to sports and other activities. If anyone's interested, maybe some information. After the adoption of the law on denationalisation in the mid-1990s, since the process of return was initiated in nature, all procedures and reconstructions of the area were stopped and only after 2002, when denationalisation was completed and known ownership, some in Ljubljana also wanted to go primarily to the construction and reconstruction of this stadium, but we can find that back in Ljubljana, when reconstruction was discussed, we had problems or halting all procedures. In fact, at the time the denationalisation procedures were completed, when it was clear ownership and when reconstruction was under consideration, the current director of the Directorate for Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Damjan Prelovšek, announced that the central city stadium in the centre of the city had nothing to look for and the refugee stadium temporarily, for one year, declared a cultural monument of state importance. This, of course, stopped all further procedures and we were unable to continue with the renovations. By the way, your fellow city councillor, Mr Peter Sušnik, also stated that Ljubljana needs a modern stadium and a facility and that he also proposes to continue the construction of the stadium. In short, we have been stopped several times in various buildings, in various renovations and various constructions, and I think there is no need to discuss today this interpretation, which has no connection with Ljubljana, the stadium, especially not with Minister Lukšić, but only pre-election points. I hope that Ljubljana, which currently has 351 sports associations, 400 category athletes, is the one that needs such a stadium and hall and will continue to build sports facilities in the future, here I mean mainly the swimming center of Ilirija in our immediate vicinity. Let me finish. I hope that this debate will also bring about the fact that we will sometimes also meet as viewers at these football and basketball games in Stožice and that we will be able to cheer together for the local club Olympia and others and, of course, for the Slovenian team that will be happy to benefit from these two facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u83	Procedurally wishes to speak to Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I think it is clear to everyone in this Chamber that we do not need to explain how our city councillors voted, and we do not need to explain how we voted when we adopted the 2008 and 2009 budget. Like our saints, all Members of the current and current Assembly of our party, we support solutions from our parliamentary group, we support the construction of sports facilities. There's no dilemma here. The problem that we are talking about today is that the procedure carried out to ensure that part of the funds was not carried out in accordance with the law. It was not carried out by the Public Procurement Act because it explicitly states when exemptions are permissible, namely that an exemption must be allowed for a project in the NRPs. I note that this coalition was deleted in March 2009 in the balance sheet in the NRP Park of Stožice. Delete, gentlemen, see budget and rebalance 2009 and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u85	Mr Tanko, this is not a procedural proposal. Please don't abuse [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u86	Of course it's a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u87	Don't abuse the word you got. Speak procedurally or stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u88	Madam President, I would like to point out that today we are talking about the abuse of the procedure, the violation of the procedure in this work. We are not talking about how the city councillors voted or how someone voted. I would like to point out that in this part it is necessary to discuss whether the Minister has violated or failed to comply with the Public Procurement Act or has violated the European regulations or has not done so. And the subject of interpretation is a violation of the law, not a vote of city councillors. We're not talking about the headquarters stadium. We are talking about the procedure for providing funds implemented by the Minister for this project and nothing else. Everything else is ballast and distracts the debate. And I think that, honourable Presidents, we could direct this discussion of our fellow Members by talking about the subject of interpretation, not the vote of city councilors, not some other story. And there is something else that we have been discussing about the dictionary errors, my fellow Members, that we have been discussing here a little while ago the law of the coalition MPs, which did not have one roof in the entire text. We discussed the proposal on the Committee on Culture [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u89	Mr. Tanko, thank you very much. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u90	The Ministry of Culture, which did not have roofies, we are talking about the attitude towards language, a respected minister. [[...]] Take a look at yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u91	Mr Tanko, you, and above all you, have abused the Rules of Procedure this time and have spoken about issues that are not the subject of this agenda. Please stop telling everyone what they can do and what they can't do, and do something different for yourselves. You've abused the Rules of Procedure more than any man has ever spoken of this interpretation. Mr. Minister Igor Luksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. We also have people here who are monitoring today's interpolation, and they need to be explained what this is all about. Each party has reserved a certain period of time and this is where Member Tanko intervenes with so-called [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u93	Mr. Luksic, please, not with this content. Mr. Tanko, I'll warn him when he's doing the wrong thing, it's not your job. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u94	I think it's right for the audience to know what this is all about. Now he has done it twice in three minutes and thus prolongs the debate. He has already done so twice, and if this happens further, this debate will continue indefinitely. That seemed important to me to say why when someone intervenes with a procedural matter and so on. I apologize, you know, civic education is also part of my department, and it's right that people know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I told Mr. Tank he broke the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Secretary, this is not your duty. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that the Minister's explanation was very welcome and I can thank him on my behalf. But I'd rather go back to one of the procedural matters. One of the procedural inputs that came from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which jumped into the air because of a word used by my colleague Dusan Kumer. I will remind this party that her young man wanted to award a medal to the President of the Republic, Danil Türk, with just that terrible word that Mr Tanko had previously protested loud and clear in this Chamber. The Slovenian Democratic Party, a youth of the SDS, wanted to give the President of the Republic a symbolic distinction with that very word. But from the President's office, it was kindly reported that the president had given a humorous gift of gratitude. So much for that word that caused so much excitement in this hall. Of course, the picture of the Conch isn't black and white. Of course not. It's hard on the one hand just to clap and on the other hand just to criticize. The truth is somewhere in between. Last time I listened to one of the candidates for Ljubljana County, who asked what Ljubljana wants, she said, "I want things to normalise in Ljubljana." I think we're talking about two Ljubljanas. We're talking about some subjective evaluation. Some of us are just satisfied and I am among those who are no doubt pleased that Ljubljana, that Slovenia has such a facility. So we have a different picture of what Ljubljana needs, what Slovenia needs, what is the situation in Ljubljana, what is the situation in Slovenia and today I think we have been talking for 6 hours, and it will be difficult to find any common point on whether we agree on whether the picture is black or white. I'm proud that we have the stadium, but, as it's said, it's just hard for him to clap, and it's hard just to criticize it. That's a fact. And as we speak, much has been said today, about numbers or facts in this interpretation, I will repeat them again for those who may not have heard them. The name Janković is mentioned 11 times in the explanation. Seventeen times in the explanation is written by the mayor – we refer, of course, exclusively to Zoran Jankovic. Twenty-two times is given the name Lukšič in the explanation and eighty times is given in the explanation Ljubljana. So the minister is, in fact, a foreigner of this story. I find it interesting what the proponents wrote in their interpretation. According to the opinion of the interviewers on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič has lost so much confidence in the public in the implementation of his policy and in the way it is implemented and so on. I have to say, I don't know which audience the proponents are talking about. For me, the most relevant public is the one that is most relevant to this object, and today, some statements have already been read, said, I think. We've waited a long time for this stadium. We can be proud to have an object that we can describe with surpluses. Matjaž Kek, Memi Bečirović, we can all be proud to have this hall and so on. Previously, Mr. Tanko protested that members of the Social Democrats were jumping into the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u97	You're absolutely right, and let me warn him instead of me, because if I warn him, it doesn't help.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u98	Look, Vice-President, I don't think there's any of this, it's just the old manners of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so I'll be done in no time. My colleagues have told a lot of facts. The Minister refused to intercede with arguments. But there's only one more thing we could say. Today, I have heard many times that this is intended only for some pre-election show, a collection of political points. But I must say that I disagree. Because it's usually in pre-election time that they lose those who attack and not those who are attacked. They lose those who do not know how to argue their attacks and lose those who distort the facts. That's how much basic money you guys who master this scene could learn at the time before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, presidents, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Interestingly, the debate has in fact become the most heated on the issue of how the interpretation was written, what the Slovenian Democratic Party is doing, its representatives, its councillors in the municipal world and so on what it was doing in the previous mandate. I had to read again what the address of this interpolation was. Whether it is the intervention of the SDS Group, its representatives, the writers of this interpolation, or whether it is an interpolation of something else. I will not answer to individual Members who have just lost their way, but the Vice-President, unfortunately, has not warned them. But I have to say, some of these readings are really unacceptable. As was one of the last indications that this interpretation is an abuse of the rules of procedure. Dearly beloved, the other options offered by the Rules of Procedure do not have the opposition. And over and over again, I hear, whenever we protest or express our opinions, our role and so on, that it is an abuse of the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure clearly specify when interpolation can be submitted, by whom it may be lodged, and it has been adopted. The president of the National Assembly found that everything was in accordance with the law or the rules of procedure, and that is why we have it today. However, since this is a matter for the Minister, I would like to interpret his statements a little bit more, perhaps in the sense of avoiding misunderstandings. I would not like you to consider the Slovenian Democratic Party as an inability to write an interpolation. In fact, the interpolation was written almost two months ago. And of course, "there's a suspicion of that and that," there was no evidence at the time. Now all these suspicions have been proven. After two months, we know we suspected correctly. It should therefore be borne in mind that the Minister's response was at the end of August 30th and that the interpretation was written at the end of July. I am a little surprised that Mr Minister – or I would like to ease this anxiety somehow. He says like this, I quote Mr Minister: "Interpellation is ready to be trampled and extremely reckless. Text of a set of definitions concerning road and restaurant debates." Mr. Minister, we have never denied that you would not be a learned man. You know the laws, you know the rules, you know what's right, you know what's wrong, you know what's decent in politics, you know what's wrong with politics. But, Mr. Secretary, these are not extenuating circumstances for you, these are rather difficult. Just so much for me. Next you said that this is how football, Slovenian sport, education and so on is interpelled. I also have to say here that we do not want to interpret football or Slovenian sports or Slovenian education. In fact, it has already been said that in our 2009 draft budget, 17 million were earmarked for the national programme of Leon Štuklj Stadium in Ljubljana. Of course, you deleted it from the national program. Sorry, that was your decision. And believe me, when you leave the Ministry of Education, there will be no end to Slovenian football, no end to Slovenian sport and no end to education. It could be even better. Sometimes it's good that a person corrects his opinion of his own majority. And let's go into the chronology of the events that led to our somehow being forced to trigger the interpolation. In April, you suggested to the finance minister that 20 million give out of the budget reserves for the Contingencies. As a learned man, you know you can't do that, and, of course, the Minister of Finance has rejected it. We don't know the reasons for your initiative. On 16 June, the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, made a clear public promise to the whole of Slovenia: "The construction of the Stožice will not even go to the euro of budget money." We have taken note of this because there is a private investment in the front and the base. Although we would support any State participation in this investment if it were regulated, if it were legal, if it were as appropriate in such cases. And on June 9th, you sent it to the mayors, and we have already heard that in this Chamber, but it must be noted again, because the debaters obviously do not know much about it. On 9 June, you wrote this down to all the mayors of Slovenian municipalities, quote: "Because of restrictive austerity measures in the 2010 state budget, we unfortunately failed to provide funding for the implementation of co-financing on the call for selected projects, so co-financing of these projects was carried over to 2011. Thus, funds for 2011 have already been allocated and we cannot implement the call for proposals this year." So we understand, this is a blockade on funding already approved projects, already approved projects. We're just in a crisis, we understand that. Nobody tripped on that. When a country is in distress, when it is already in debt and cannot finance the most urgent things, then it is necessary to save and delay investment. You yourself have come to the conclusion that some municipalities have resigned because of the failure to meet the conditions of this year’s investment, and there are 9.4 million euros left. 9.4 million euros. I wonder why you did not return these funds to the budget and thereby reduce Slovenia's debt by almost 10 million. Why did you not devote these funds to the congregations whose investment you postponed for the following year? These are funds that the congregations or congregations were unable to use this year, and they would have given them to other congregations. As we know, such arrangements are quickly possible, as the call for proposals, which were immediately announced on July 2nd, was a call for the use of these funds, which was very significant. This too has already been mentioned, and the debaters feel that they do not know as if they did not listen, and you have not responded. How is it possible that the invitation to tender was only on the occasion of the biggest holiday, when people are really on vacation, from 2 July to 23 August, such a short invitation to tender, for three weeks. When is the invitation to tender only three weeks during the biggest vacation? Not to say it was written on the skin of a particular project. However, this unusual speed and so on showed that major errors were overlooked, including such things that the financial structure was not closed. You knew very well that private financiers have withdrawn from this estate of financial structures and that there have been even such anomalies as the forecast of revenues of €18,000 for the first league, which is actually €950, which is almost twenty times less. This rush means a lot. Mr Vizjak has already shown a number of other elements where it proves why this ER was so elegantly carried out, including all other things. This was carried out so quickly in this case, but it was not about floods, it was not about reptiles that threatened houses, it was not about bridges that were destroyed by water. Nothing so urgent. What was the basis of this unusual emergency? I know what to do. The stadium had to be opened before the elections, because building a monument means building it at the right time. And we know how things have been in the past in such cases. We have examples of how individual monuments were erected by individual monks – just think of Bucharest, of Ceausescu, as the monument sets it, not to talk about Egyptian pyramids, which are beautiful, to everyone in sight – of the blood and sweat of slaves. But in this interpolation, we have to warn again, it's not the stadium that it was built at all, it's not the state's participation. It's a lot more than that. It's something else. This isn't an interpellation against Jankovic. He has proved to be a very powerful, very frivolous, very successful man. This case, too, I will call it the Lukšič case, has several aspects. It is also not only a violation of the law and an abuse of the position, as indicated in the interpretation. In my opinion, I think it's a much more important dimension that Guido Kres warned about, and it just went away. This is a matter of some unusual servitude of the present authority to some strange demands of individuals. In fact, this case is part of a series of cases that are becoming more and more frequent at this time. Remember the case when a member of the government solved the issue of crediting his colleague for a powerful building. First, the building was offered to the prosecution, the prosecution said, "No, we don't need to rent this building, we're satisfied with the old premises", and then, of course, a new state office was established and finally the government hired that building and within a few years this friend of the member/member of this government will be able to repay the building with this rent. Remember the case, excuse me, Bulmastifs, the whole government, the whole system, from expert opinions, inspection services, commissions to the Ministry of the Environment, all served quickly, quickly to return the bulmastifs, so to speak, satisfy some, excuse me, the unnatural desires of an individual. Unnatural to an individual, pathological desires. It's an individual again. And even in this case, quickly, quickly, to co-finance, to save the desire, to provide, to respond to the wishes of an individual. I also wonder sometimes why you brought winter holidays together in one week, because you know that there will be a lot more danger in skiing because of this, in transport and also many Slovenians going abroad, and that will also harm our economy, as the Minister of Economy has also pointed out. We don't know why, if there's another individual's sick desire here. So, in all these cases, and your case, in my opinion, is distinctly part of these events. Therefore, some servitude of the current authorities or ministries, in any case, of all services, works as it should, then is triggered from the Office to the Court of Justice and all to satisfy the desire of the individual who wants certain appropriations within a certain period of time, a certain benefit and so forth. And of course, last time it's all legal. It's all legal. Even in the case of the Bulmastifs, because everything was legal. Everything. But in another case, there is no such haste, there is no such understanding, there is no such thing as if an ordinary citizen is triggering something like this, or if an ordinary congregation initiates such an investment, and so on, there is no hurry, there is years and years to come. It is said that everything is legal, it is only necessary to interpret the law in its own way, to organise tendering conditions, to freeze before mistakes, to organise any other expert opinion and all is O.K. However, this is not the answer. It bothers me terribly, even if everything is legal, even if you prove everything is legal. The rule of law also requires more. You also said, as you said, that the tendering conditions were not determined by you, but by the tendering commission, and that you were not involved either in the preparation process or in the validation of the tender documents. Then I wonder why this invitation was so unusually fast, so selective, then who decides? What paratrooper is in the back that runs these things? Who's got neither hands nor your services if you're not behind it? Then we are still on a more important issue, on a more important issue. So, this interpellation is not about Slovenian football, about Slovenian sport, Slovenian education, nor is it about Minister Lukšić, nor is it about the SDS Group and individual Members. You're right, it's a lot more. It is a way of ruling that appears in these important parts in these important segments. It's a way of ruling. We, or at least I, imagine, Minister, that the government must be serviceable, but not to an individual, but to a nation. And in the sense of the rule of law, it must be an example of respect for laws and political hygiene. The professor should know that. Good to know. You also said, "if we do," of course, then you lamented here, that this is a great damage to Slovenia, this interpretation, and that "if we treat every call like this, where we will come." I have to say, we don't deal with every invitation to tender like this. In an invitation to tender, which is lawful, no one gets involved. You also said or called us, "let's let the government deal with important things." Yes, but, Minister, we have two branches of power, legislative and executive. Law enforcement sets the rules, sets the rules for the game. The legislature's gonna tell us what the executives are gonna do. And if we're in the legislative branch of power, it's the opposition's job to control it. It is quite clear, I fully understand that the coalition advocates its minister and also somehow wants to cover up all these mistakes and illegalities somehow, to soften up and so forth. However, it is our duty to keep that in mind. If anyone does, voters need to know how to rule with us and where the problems are. That's why it's an interpolation. It's not a sports stadium.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Minister Igor Lukšič asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you, President, for your word. Of course, there are again a whole bunch of cases that start with a slow type of matter and a very awkward entry into the story, and then end up late, with heavy accusations. So, what does the opposition have at its disposal? The opposition has parliamentary issues at its disposal. And if you ask me, the call for this rank – if the opposition asked a question, one, two, three, the minister could explain it on one, two sides, in ten minutes, as necessary. Just as the Minister has already explained in two questions, and in one Minister of Economy, how the decision and the consequences of the decision to redistribute the holiday into a single period are. And I'm not gonna talk about it anymore because I think it's two and two fours. I'm not going to ask anyone again or explain to him that it's two and two fours, as I said at the beginning. I've explained this twice. There are magnetograms, and since we're a literate nation, we're likely to read it there. However, I do not think that a call for proposals is worth a 12-hour debate of the National Assembly. But, of course, it's a matter of assessment. However, there are 31 Members who have assessed that this is a matter of debate in the National Assembly, and that is why we are here today and not because the Minister would make a mistake. It has recently been said that interpolation has been written in this way because the interpolators have not yet known what the facts will be until today. Interpellation is a matter of state, state authority, Members and they come with all responsibility with the material they provide to that country. It's like knowing all the facts. Why did they know all the facts? Because of the credibility and credibility of the invitation to tender, not the decision, the invitation to tender. So no later fact was necessary anymore. For the invitation to tender, you claim that he was discriminatory. He wasn't. And whoever's going to judge who has already judged this call has found that it was not discriminatory, and I have also explained it to Mr Visiak. He wasn't discriminatory. Now those who come afterwards, now after six, seven hours of debate, come as Janko to Kosovo field, "and I only found out yesterday". Excuse me. I'm probably not going to repeat it here forever. First, I need to know the facts, and that is, Mr. Tuckati, the difference between, say, me or the government majority, and during what you are defending, I have already said and will indefinitely repeat, "Acts, facts must be taken into account!" So if we want to tell the minister that he didn't explain, then we need to look at what he's already said, but not after six hours to come to the hall and say, the minister didn't explain it. He explained, and he will not repeat, because we are in the National Assembly and not in the supplementary lesson. The next issue is the relationship between desires and what these desires do. Look, we can all wish — and this is what we all want — for this country to function well. But if we interpret the Minister on one call, then this is not a contribution, in my opinion, to the good functioning of the country. And if we interpret the minister at a sensitive time when the budget is being adopted, when the school year begins and the Minister for Education and Sport is being interpreted and the minister responsible for sport is being answered in the year when we achieve the best results. Formally, look, I don't have any credit for this, no, I'm not gonna take it, but by doing this we're attacking a department that works peacefully for this sport, a sports organization that works well, works perfectly. Indirectly, we also attack the entire area and cause confusion. One who knows politics knows that well. And it is difficult to tell Members, especially those who have performed visible functions here, so that they do not know about it. Next thing you know, there's nothing to understand. The question of the resources that were distributed by municipalities in 2009 in the state budget and in which the mayors were asked to understand that we are transferring this to 2011. These funds have nothing to do with the European budget. Those resources cannot then be returned to the budget, for example, in this budget, these funds should be returned to us in the European budget. Our national interest, the interest of this nation to which you refer, in my opinion, is that these 9 million 400 we receive, we draw. That was the minister's intention. You keep talking about how fast things were. It wasn't fast. Things are happening too slowly. I demanded these things as soon as they were clear. The data was clear around February that we were going to the invitation to tender, but things were dragging on so long that before we played these circles forward, and back and back, and negotiations up and down, it took six months. It's been a short time because we need time to request. Look, to this day's request. The funds are still on the government's account. And the question is, how long will it take to produce this, so that we can draw on it at all? This could happen, and this would be a tragedy for the funds to remain in the European budget. That would be a tragedy. Well, things don't happen as fast as you think, but they happen too slowly, for my taste too slow. And we're doing everything we can to do better. Why is it happening too slow? Because we have inherited a system of managing this entire drawing process from the previous government, which has not done much on it, unfortunately. Me, too, I'm not gonna say it's just the government, the problem is that things are so complicated, I'm gonna say we can't get them out faster. It's not about throwing up the blame on the previous government. But it is that we ourselves — and here is part of our character — have complicated these mutual controls in preparing the invitation to tender, let alone then. And here I would ask for your support, including you from the SDS, to take one step further here. As soon as the mandate began, in January 2009, the government had a special meeting on this subject, perhaps in February, to speed up the pumping, because it was clear that it was the only fresh money we could get during the crisis. Finally, Mr Cukjat raised an interesting question concerning political theory, the real question of the relationship of the nation, the individual and the people as well. You know, reading the government's servitude because in the end as a user you always find one particular individual. Is this government servile up to, I don't know, one Josette Novak for losing his job and now he's going to get social assistance and the government has spent hundreds of millions on it? Shall we say she's servile? No, it's not. This government takes care of all citizens of Slovenia, especially those in the most difficult situation. Take care of all the projects. And as I've shown there, for regional coverage, which is right, which is good. And he also takes care of the entire nation to reproduce and that he has points of resistance here to strengthen himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you for giving me your word for the replica. I have the impression that Mr. Secretary doesn't want to understand what we're saying or understand. We prove that he made a mistake, namely, that the square root of 9 3. And he says, no 2 times 2 is 4. It keeps repeating 2 times 2 is 4. The question is, what is the square root of 9. It's 3. In that sense, we say something else than you do. I don't think it's expected that you will respond to the impressions you're hearing here. Clearly, because they are difficult, impossible to reason with, and then you find yourself in those populist matters. Once again, we ourselves have already reserved 19 million in the previous term for the financing of the stadium. The name was then given after Stuklu, you can change it, that name doesn't matter, it could be Edward Cardell's stadium. But the money was, you cut it out, and now you're going into some completely different project. You said the funds, $9.4 million, are only for projects related to European funds. Such projects were already rejected in this year due to lack of funds, namely Koper, Maribor, not to list others. It would be fair to allow those who have been rejected since this year to continue this year with the investment approved last year. The problem of Congestion is solved in a way that is solved in a normal state of law with a minimum political culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. My colleague Candy, you probably should not be reminded that the replica refers to correcting false statements, but not to polynomizing, however [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u106	It was on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u107	Good. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Clearly, some things we do not understand or want to get along. At least I don't understand what the bulmastifs have to do with this interpolation or some of the topics that you brought to the table here today in the National Assembly. I agree with the minister who says some things don't want to be heard. That's right. They don't want to hear it, they won't want to hear it if they explain themselves more than once, because it obviously doesn't matter. Everyone will say their part in their debate, because the aim is not to reach the bottom of the call for proposals, and this has also been well explained as regards the legislative process. The goal is completely different. Attacking all that is good, attacking all the projects that have been carried out, attacking the government, not to mention the various groups that you have already highlighted here in the National Assembly. I hope that this will also be seen at some point among the people I hope to see as nothing more than a campaign for local elections. Here I agree with those who judge it that way, because it is necessary to make a conspiracy theory out of everything, it is necessary to make an affair out of everything and it is simply not right. If we just look at the content of the interpolation and also look at the minister's response on the other hand, it is clear that it goes in the content of the interpolation or, I can also say in three words, the fog, the fog and the fog again. The arguments presented in response to the interpolation are clear. Then I can go back to the beginning so we don't want to hear from each other or that's our key purpose. The Minister is accused of lying and suspicion of abuse without arguments, without justification and without all. A key topic at the beginning of the debate in this National Assembly was the letter that was reportedly addressed by the Ministry of Education to all mayors of municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia as a notification that there is no funding in the 2010 state budget for the implementation of co-financing on the call for selected projects, that co-financing was carried over to 2011 and thus cannot implement the call in 2010. This is an indication that some congregations were taken away, why it was not then given to other congregations. If you look at what these invitations actually say and how they differ, then we can see, nothing more than mixing pears and apples. Since this letter, addressed to the Ministry of Education, relates to the resources of the State budget and not to funds from the European Union. That's the key. This is about two different things that we obviously don't know or we don't want to tell each other. It also follows that the interpolation applicants do not distinguish between resources, budgetary resources, what is the budgetary source of the state budget and what is the budgetary source of the resources, i.e. the European Union budget. Here's the problem when we just don't want to tell each other what real things are. In that letter, the Ministry of Education and Sport informed the municipality of the non-existent funds from the integrated budget. 2. Seven. In 2010, the Ministry launched a call for proposals in the selection of operations to co-finance investments in sport and recreation infrastructure 3 from the European Regional Development Fund. If anyone thinks that the minister could arrange for an invitation to tender, for himself or for a project, or for the Stožica Sports Park, I think he's actually wrong. If the European Union had overlooked that something would have been done unlawfully, that this would have been a suspicion of abuse or anything else, then I really do not know where we live. At one point you also wrote that the funds were earmarked for something and then there was a conversion, which of course is not true, but it was a call from another source, for another purpose, with other conditions of co-financing and with another dynamic of co-financing. So again, false accusations about what the Minister was supposed to do and who he was supposed to do it for, say, a public invitation to tender, as you claim that he was not published anywhere, that it was a matter of concealing a public invitation to tender, were finally published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Come in. It should be borne in mind that for the fairness of the distribution of money, it does not matter how many projects are selected for co-financing, as it is clear, because a different number of projects can be granted on different calls. It is important, in particular, that the selected projects fulfil all the conditions, and this was important in this call. It is most surprising that the interpellationers themselves find that in the case of the selection of one investor, it is necessary to allocate all the funds tendered and then they report that this has been done on this call. So, I don't know, it's spelled one, it's spoken another here in the National Assembly. Now we need to see who this interpolation is targeting, who is the target of this interpolation. It is also said that the invitation to tender has been written on the skin of the Sožice project, but it has been said many times that the value of the entire sport park is well above the price of the project by invitation to tender, not to mention that there are also two roles that have been relevant, substantively perfect roles, so that they cannot say that this is indeed an invitation to tender only for Stožice. And just to remind you. In 2007, the former government earmarked €4 million for the stadium of Stožice for 2008, €4 million for 2009 and €2 million for 2010. Today you are speaking here in the National Assembly that your purpose was not to speak against the Project Stožice. If you remember four months ago, that was the only purpose, your intention — to trouble yourself with building the Stoice, that something was happening to move something. Then you've got one chance to talk about the invitation to tender and now you're having a major problem with this. On the one hand, you're saying that it's not the right time to invest, that's what you're saying today that we're in charge and that it wouldn't be good. On the other hand, you report to this government when it comes to the National Assembly and submits a budget for the coming period, that it does not spend enough on investments, that there is not enough of these resources, that there is now a need to invest in the crisis and so on. You come into conflict with yourself, and it is obvious that you have no other purpose than to populistly repeat things that are more easily understood by people in order to gain a voice in these upcoming local elections. Earlier it was said that someone was setting up a monument with this stadium, that it should have been foreseen in 2010, during the local elections. Let me remind you, your government has foreseen the completion of this project in 2010. So much for who wanted to build monuments and who didn't. I must say that I see only the politicisation of this project in this project or in interpolation. This is not a battle against this invitation to tender or Minister Luksic, this is a battle against Zoran Jankovic, because you do not like that this stadium was built in his mandate. This is a battle against this government, and I'm sorry, this is also a battle against Ljubljana. If anything is important, one should ask why this hall has become such a problem in Slovenia. This is one big win for our country. I think we're all clear here. Now that it's built, there are problems with the invitation to tender, I'd rather see that we focus on whether all the obligations have been settled and whether everything is as it should be. If we did not build this facility or if we did not undertake the construction of this project, it would be wrong again to have an incompetent government that cannot even construct one stadium. Neither one nor the other solution for you would be optimal, we will never be able to meet you or do any things, even if one thing is good. Let me finish this slowly. I was very disturbed by one subjective assessment of how to deal with some of the people who took part in this call when you spoke about the chairman of the Commission who was watching over this call. We can't afford to just discredit people according to the political options they are in. What someone does in his spare time, whether he is a member of any political party, is his personal matter. It is important to look at its competences whether it has been set up politically or not. And when we look at the competences of the person who supervised or led this commission, we see that there was nothing at stake here and you spit in your own bowl, because the next time any member of the SDS is anywhere in any position, you could stand up and tell me that the project is corrupt because it's your member. It's just not fair and it's incorrect. Because, if we look at just experience, we see that since 2001, this man has not performed any functions in our party, he has 6 years of work experience in the area of structural funds, he has been a member of a number of call committees to allocate funds to European cohesion policy and so on. So once again one argument that absolutely does not hold back. All in interpolation, the response to interpolation speaks in favour of the fact that the Minister was not competent to determine the terms of the invitation to tender, could not tailor this invitation to tender and could also not create inequalities before the law from this title. At this moment, you demolish the minister, who assured the first minister to provide subsidized and free nutrition in the primary schools as well, the demolition of the minister, who first managed to bring through the Youth Act and the demolition of the minister, who returned the students to the holy school. That's only three points. A lot of good projects have been done at this ministry. Collect another topic for interpolation, if this is so important to you, you have this right, but not with ballast in this interpolation, because you simply have many arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Excuse me? Yes, but first you heard from Dr. Igor Luksic, Minister, and then you. I know how they checked in. Please, Dr. Igor Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you. Minister of Technology, higher education has told me that for many years it has been known that pyramids did not build slaves. I am sorry that Mr Tsukati is no longer here because he seems to be operating on the wrong fact. We're all ministers for the last time now, no. I wanted to answer the question, "square root of 3 is 3. But I haven't heard an answer yet about what 2 plus 2 is on the other side. Mr Cukjat previously referred to the issue of fairness and again mixed European funds and resources from the state budget. It is impossible to circumvent the rules on these matters, namely the right rules. When we cross the road, there is nothing that helps us to know and refer to the rules governing air traffic, i.e. these regulations and not the Public Procurement Act, if it is not bound by cohesion tenders. Since we have a new audience here, and certainly the audience has changed before TV, I would like to say a few things, because of the resignation of the municipalities, 7 municipalities have resigned from the projects because they were unable to provide 20% of the additional VAT funding for the project for which they themselves applied in 2009. These were projects there ranging from 500,000 to a million. Together, these projects were 7 and this amounted to about EUR 5 million. 4 million euros remained from the Planica project because we failed to realize it because of the problems that the previous government has had and has solved with regard to ownership. We fix it, too. It's slow. Now we've drawn up a law to deal with it. If the previous government had used it, then I could have made use of these funds now, and 400 thousand was left of dynamics. So 9 million 400 thousand. The Minister, who is responsible for education and sport and also for the use of these funds in 2010, immediately as soon as he found out, there in February, March, he ordered his colleagues to prepare an invitation to tender, all in need for an invitation to tender for these funds, 9 million 400. And then this thing went on for a long time. Why? It is also because the procedure is very complicated because it is not decided by the Minister, but by the invitation to tender it is confirmed and finally determined and published by the Minister, and by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Regional Development Service, which is responsible for drawing on European funds. And this service shall examine whether the invitation to tender is in accordance with European Union law and regulations. So a legal formal story is taken care of by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government. And then the minister appointed the commission that prepared the draft invitation to tender, and the draft invitation to tender went to the government office. This took place until 2 July when we were able to issue the invitation to tender. That's why it's so short. The conditions, the underlying infringement or the apparent discriminatory nature. Regional criteria. The regional criterion was already in previous calls, and this regional criterion provided for the advantage of that municipality which is in the less developed statistical regions. We have introduced a correction, adding not general development to the regional criteria, but the development of sport infrastructure. Sports infrastructure! So it's important because it's about sports infrastructure, how much sport infrastructure is developed in the region or in the competition municipality. And they're reading it as a violation. Although we have a national programme since 2000, where we set the target of 0.5 square metres of sports per capita. And that goes for all of Slovenia. So in all of Slovenia we want to raise the standard to this level. So this criterion is not discriminatory, but it has been in the service of this policy, which has been in force in Slovenia and has been established by consensus since 2000. Then there was an invitation to tender, where a fact was added to show how the case was tailored. Added, you made it up! That the minister was in charge of this committee – which is in charge and which choice is generally not affected, so the Commission then chooses – appointed the head of the cabinet, which is not true. They found out today that it doesn't even matter that much, but it's written down, so please. The National Assembly, this country deals with fictional facts and colleagues from SDS and SNS think that state policy can be guided here on the basis of fictitious facts. Why? Because they believe that their opinions can be deprived of the facts, but not first to inform themselves about the facts and then to build opinions. And that's the difference between the government, me, the ruling coalition, and the interpolation investors. They build on opinions, prejudices, and not facts. And they don't care that I've already explained twice, three times, why it's about that I've already explained some of the other things in the answers to some of the Members' questions. They're still coming with this, and they're not clear about it. There is therefore a supplementary lesson in schools, and there is no mechanism in the country. That is why the session will last until everyone has exhausted his or her time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proposaler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Of course, I have to stop by because we're building interpellation on facts and not on opinions. And I'd be happy if the Minister would answer those questions at once. And I'm going to repeat these facts, because I can see that it's actually been repeating some floscules for the third time, if not for the fourth time. Therefore, we report to the Minister for the preparation of a public tender for one project and discriminatory criteria and criteria for public tendering. And I will justify this and I regret that Levanic, my fellow Member, does not listen here because he came later, he did not hear these arguments and read something that someone wrote to him, and again he did not hear the key facts. Therefore, the Minister said that the Public Procurement Act did not apply and thus proved that he did not know the legal order of the State of Slovenia. 53. Article 53 of the Public Finance Act, the Minister-designate, provides that the Minister of Finance shall take into account and provide for the Public Procurement Act when determining the conditions for the allocation of State aid funds. Therefore, when subsidies are granted from the State budget, the European budget, state aid, the principles of the Public Procurement Act must be respected. The principles of the Public Procurement Act are that competition must not be restricted, that no one should be discriminated against. And now proof that five Slovenian regions have been discriminated against in this call. In fact, regional criteria require applicants to receive at least half of the points from 24. However, it refers to the following regional criteria: for the first time, the square area of sport infrastructure per capita, the funds already received from the State for financing sport infrastructure. Five Slovenian regions: Podravska, Obalno-kraška, Savinjska, Gorenjska and Koroška region, cannot theoretically reach 50% of the points on this invitation to tender and are automatically excluded from the possibility of receiving these funds. Dear Minister, who is not, Mr Levanic, who does not hear this, how is this not discriminatory, concrete, clear, without an evaluation, but with actual evidence? How is it not discriminatory if five Slovenian regions cannot theoretically succeed in the tender because they cannot reach 50% of the points in this regional criterion? He can't. Why? Because the coastal and karst region can only reach 7 points here, the condition is 12, because Podravska can only reach 4 points, Mr Levanič, who comes from Podravska region, because Savinska region can only reach 11 points, Gorenjska only 7 and Koroška only 9 points. Look, it's true that four applicants signed up. Two of them have already been eliminated because of their incomplete role. One, next to the Stožica Sports Park, went into further treatment and fell out. It's a corporate project. The Cyprus project failed only because it was known in advance that it would fail because the invitation to tender had taken place. The call was organised to take account of this criterion of already built infrastructure by square per capita and already received funds from the country per capita. And according to this criterion, no project could succeed in Primorska. None. Not only in Primorske, but also in Podravje, including in the Savina region, Gorenjska and Koroška region. I do not know, Your Honor, how should we justify discrimination in this invitation to tender more than in this way? That a number of municipalities have been eliminated in advance, many projects per country, as well as five Slovenian statistical regions. I can't really explain it any more. Once again, Your Honor, this is not an interpretation against the Stožice Sports Park. We need this sports park. Moreover, the previous government has included this sport park in a resolution of national projects and budgeted it. And it is not true that with some fictionists, EUR 50 million was foreseen by the previous government for this Leon Štuklja sport park project, as it was previously called, and was later renamed the Stožice Sports Park, was deleted from the budget under this government's mandate. The prime minister of this government said that the Stožice sport park would not receive the euro of tax or budgetary money. The call for a Mortal salad in this approach was a result of the collapse of the financial structure of this project, because the private partner could no longer provide enough money because the value of the investment has increased and a solution has been sought. That's the point. And the criteria and conditions of the tender have come up for one project and I will prove and I will repeat this regional criterion to you, according to me, 10 more times if you say that there is no solid evidence that this call is discriminatory. Because it is! If 5 statistical regions cannot succeed in the tender, I do not know what this is more than a discriminatory condition of the tender itself. And Minister Luksic, here today, did not explain why he excluded these five regions. And I ask you, colleagues from Primorska, Podravska, from the coalition, whether you agree with such calls that will exclude individual regions in the future, which will say in advance that you do not have enough points, and will say in advance that your role should not be considered. In fact, it says that the roles of those who do not achieve more than 50% of the points will not be included in the further evaluation. Pika. Those who failed to reach enough points on a regional basis will not be considered finished the story. And again, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg has a case law, so it has a case, based on discriminatory calls for funds. The countries had to pay back the money, the recipients had to pay back the money. You are on the best path that on such horouk-finance, you will have to pay back money in the end, untransparent, adjusted, discriminatory way of funding. The Minister said earlier that the development of the region was key in the assessment. Normal. Now that he saw that if he went according to this criterion, Ljubljana could not get, and he went according to other criteria. So it went according to the criterion of how much funding the Ministry of Education has already earmarked for the development of sport infrastructure in the region. And it is true that since MOL or the municipality of Ljubljana did not apply much for these invitations, he saw here that there was also that manoeuvre. In short, these tender criteria are unique, were first used and only taken because they fit this project. Instead, respected by the coalition to go transparently to co-finance this project with public funds, which, under the current legislation, could only take a little longer, you went under the cover of a single call, and that is the problem. The problem is that you have begun to explain the rule of law to yourself, and the problem is that this can become a precedent and you will share the money in your own way in the future. And we want to stop it!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear co-worker of the Minister, colleague and colleague! When we talk about the right to interpretation, there is no problem. Another problem is what is considered to be the essence of interpolation, whether it is serious or drowning. At that time, it is a matter of the rules of procedure and the possibility of its abuse. In fact, I'm sure this interpolation is one of those people we're already used to, built on lies, drowning, on conviction and not on facts. I conclude that I have carefully read the interpretation, which is quite an entrenched "leak", but I have not found in it solid evidence that Mr Luksic has abused the law or used his position. It cannot be hidden that this interpellation actually constitutes collateral damage for the Minister, but in fact it reflects the bile that the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana managed to bring this project under the roof, although with great problems and with the serious problems that arose. There must also be some pre-election activity in this interpretation, because the candidate for Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana is so strong that he can easily handle competition, so this is also aimed at harming him. As for the principle of support for some kind of interpretation, I have no difficulty because in two coalitions I supported the interpretation against the Minister, my Minister, if I may say so, but they deserved it, and I have no bad conscience and I did not have it when I did it. And even in this coalition, if anyone else considers me a member or not, I will support the interpretation that will prove that it is an abuse of the situation and a violation of the constitutional order of this country, as stated in the oath of ministers taking over their activities. But in this case it's not there, and that's why I won't be able to support this interpolation. The only fact this interpolation brings is that there is another one who will spend about 10 or more Euros of tax money on electricity, on paper, on telephones, on travel costs for all of us and so on. And it would be wise for the signatories to take this into account when they consider what they are doing in the National Assembly when it comes to the way they fight for power. Every government needs an opposition, and I agree with that, but in a way that acts in a state-of-the-art way, in the sense that it does not spend without the need for tax money. I actually understand this interpolation as a violent leap into a pool that doesn't have water. I can easily compare it with such a work, because in advance it was known that it would not succeed, nor did the whole opposition attach itself to this interpretation, but only a large part. I also listen to strange stories in interpretations, such as discriminating and similar – some rules for budgetary money are quoted in this story as some other money – and this is used as an argument. Or, for a moment, I was convinced that I was listening to the interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, and so on. When there's no argument, everything comes in handy. And that's what's happening to us today. This is just one of the proofs of how little content is in interpretation. For I say to you that I would be more concerned with the interpretation which would have been written on both sides, and that in a few points would have been clear elements of the guilt of a minister. Then a person would cut his ears, think seriously, read, and decide whether he would act in principle or not. But I can't do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u116	I'll be brief. But I really don't know if we speak two different languages here or three different languages. Dear Mr Žnidaršič, this is an exclusive violation of Slovenian and European legislation, because in this case it is the use of both European and Slovenian budgetary money. It is both budgetary and European money, because it is not a project that can be financed by European money unless budgetary resources are also provided. And the Ministry of Education had to redistribute the budget for this; if you don't know, God help you. That's the first thing that's a problem with you. The second problem is that, I don't know how to tell you, five statistical regions have been excluded through the tender criteria. Five statistical regions can't get through at all, so the tender criteria are made. I do not know, honourable Members, what should be the stronger evidence that the invitation to tender is discriminatory. I believe you've decided how you'll vote long before today. It's your right, your freedom, and I don't have a problem with it at all. However, do not tell me that we do not refer to specific things and to solid evidence. Strong evidence is that if you examine the call for 5 statistical regions, they cannot succeed in the tender because they reach too few points in order to further address their role, because they are in these statistical regions. If I say domestically, if a municipality in the Podravska region declares worldwide good projects, such as the municipality of Ruše, an incredibly good project of national importance for sports infrastructure, it cannot succeed because it is in the Podravska region because it is so written by the minister. The Minister wrote that the Podravska region has already received too much money for sports infrastructure and that there are too many square metres for sports infrastructure in the Podravsko region. Therefore, the municipality of Ruše cannot obtain anything for any project in this call. If that's not evidence of discrimination, I don't know what evidence is. This is in the invitation to tender. It's similar for Koper. Koper signed up with a good project. He fulfilled all the conditions, everything. The role is perfect, but it fell on this regional criterion. He just happened to be from the Coastal-Kraška region. In the coastal-Kraška region, according to this minister, they already have enough sports space per square metre. They have and have already received sufficient budgetary money for sport infrastructure, so they cannot reach enough points to be included in any further consideration of the application. This is discriminatory and, honourable Members, Article 53 of the Public Finance Act says that in allocating state budget and state aid resources, while State aid is also European money, it makes sense to respect the principles of the Public Procurement Act. The Public Procurement Act in Article 7 states that when allocating funds, the choice must not be discriminatory, that competition protection must be respected, that it must act transparently and in a similar way. This is what we see in concrete terms, and I am sure that these issues are still supported and proven through interpolation and, with respect, that Parliament's work is assessed as consumption, of course, of excess energy and costs to the state, but it is indeed a mockery of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please. Replica, I'm sorry. Mag. Franz Gnyardsich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u118	That's all I'd say is that most municipalities that want to run for cleaners don't meet the condition of 15,000 households. That's discriminatory of you. Some number is always the limit for [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have no doubt that the Minister for Education and Sport is politically responsible for a lot of things. Personally, I think it's a little less than that, but I certainly don't think he's responsible for the things that the interpelling proponents are saying. I think he's politically responsible that the school boards have stopped and I think it's a shame. I also think it's a shame that there's no proper teaching in school about sex education, and there's nothing I can tell him, but today it's not the subject of this interpretation. I find it hard to accept that the one who promoted inequality before the law or any discriminatory calls was preparing or influencing others to do so. My colleague, Visionary, was very interested in how we see this discriminating. It was based on the fact that five regions did not meet the conditions. It's interesting to me how we can see the same things differently. It is precisely what Vizjak stated that confirms that this call for proposals we are talking about was very good. I would ask myself how the fact that it is not clear to my colleague Viszak about sports infrastructure we have in Slovenia, the minister mentioned, half a square metre per inhabitant, the goal for all Slovenian regions. And that this is probably one criterion that has come up, that is how much Slovenia can probably afford in the near future, and that is our goal, and that is why we are doing it. However, in the field of sport infrastructure Ljubljana is the region that is not the most developed, which is less developed than other regions, that is a fact and therefore may be higher here on the priority list than any other region. You mentioned Podravje yourself. In my previous career, I went a lot to elementary school and played some puppets for children. I tell you, I did not play in the worse sports halls than I did in the Municipality of Maribor and in the Municipality of Ljubljana. The most beautiful halls I've seen, sports combined with cultural schools and so on, I've seen in the smallest municipalities I've been to. Like Parents, I think there's one of them on Ptuj's field, and Miklavž on the Drava Field is the same thing, they're both in Podravje. I don't know what it's like in Destrunk, that's what my buddy Pukšič will know better. But my experience is that in these small places there are megalomanic objects that I hope those places and even the surrounding areas can fill. However, I am sure that many help to make the average sports area per capita in the region very high. And I am responsible for saying that if the Ministry made a list and statistics count to them – and I believe them – that they know which regions in Slovenia are more developed through sports facilities than others. Podravje is clearly more developed than Ljubljana in the field of sports facilities and peaks. We have a few other areas in this country where we should treat all regions equally, and it is interesting how we explain this coherent regional development. Now we are not talking about some equality, the word consistency does not mean equality, but it is likely that things will go according to the possibilities. For the example of Miklavž in the Drava Field, the municipality has been in charge for decades to build such a mega-Roman sports facility. As a result, the congregation will likely have less money to invest in infrastructure. As a result, it will probably attract investors, it will not open spindle zones, and, as a result, it will probably be less economically developed. In short, one vicious circle, because if economic development were to be taken for how much money someone would get for sports facilities, they would always get one and the same, Miklavž on the Drava Field will always be in the lead, will have a huge facility and a very poor economic infrastructure. And what he's building, he's building an ever-increasing gym, and the economy is going to go down -- probably not, so we have to take these things accordingly. But if someone imagined that because Ljubljana is better in economic terms or central Slovenia than any other part of Slovenia, let them build their own sports facilities for the whole of Slovenia and for the football team, and for the basketball team for someone else, for the curling instead of Ruš, let them just do it in Ljubljana because they have the money. Holy forgiveness, yes, where are we? In Slovenia we have some budgetary resources that must be used in a balanced manner throughout Slovenia. Comrade Vizjak, you know best where the money from the Water Fund of the Republic of Slovenia went, which should be used evenly throughout the country. You know how much we've drawn on these funds. Now, you explain to your fellow Ukrainians who have to draw water from their houses, as I will have to explain to my fellow citizens who have to draw water from their houses, why most of this money has gone to Posavje, why Ljubljana still does not have a water holder in the municipality of Horjul-Polhov Gradec, why you, as minister to your then environmental colleague, did not say a word to Savje and Ljubljana that state environmental plans would be made and that all cities in this country, both Posavje and Ljubljana, would be given the infrastructure they deserve according to their needs. And the sport infrastructure is the exact same debate. This was a good decision by the Ministry, because if we didn't draw on European funds, I'd probably be back on the wallpaper, because it's too weak to draw on these European funds. I, for example, can blame the Minister for Education and Sport for not trying in cooperation with a colleague from the agricultural ministry who also sat here to co-finance the Animal Garden in Ljubljana. An animal garden is one important educational institution for all Slovenian schoolchildren, there is no Slovenian region from which Slovenian schoolchildren would not go to see animals in the Ljubljana animal species, and only the Municipality of Ljubljana has to finance luxury for all Slovenian primary schools and secondary schools and there are others who go to see. I believe that various donkeys, horses, sheep, cows, pigs, geese and chickens can be observed in all Slovenian regions. The camels, giraffes, monkeys, tigers, elephants and lions are only in Ljubljana at home in Slovenia and it would be right because these animals are special to give the country something for them. However, I understand that if the Ministry finances all small gyms and small gyms across all Slovenian regions, it will also finance some special, in the notes, a gym in Ljubljana or elsewhere in Slovenia, which will be of central national importance. And the premises of both the hall and the stadium are a matter of national interest, just like the Nova Ljubljanska Banka or something else, which is gladly promoted. In my opinion, even more than, say, the ownership of the Laško Brewery, which has been said many times in this hall and elsewhere in the public. This is part of Slovenian identity now and will become more and more over the years. And it is also true that the country contributes to this. Ljubljana has contributed a great deal to this part of Slovenian national identity and will continue to do so, of course because it must be the capital, because it has to bear its part of responsibility, but it is right that the country helps it. I think it was well said what my colleague Levanic said was about mixing fog, but he said, if we are already purist, linguistically speaking, I should say m []gle or misty, because fog is not the correct Slovenian expression if we are going to talk about roofs and spelling errors. So I think it would be as good on this subject as our party's true mayoral candidate, "to stay with your head above the mist, with your feet on the ground and with your heart on the matter". However, as far as the legality of this or other calls is concerned, I think it is difficult, for example, for the applicants to talk about when we were also able to hear in the presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups that the former Minister of Economy, after the elections, practically at the end of his term, made a call from which all the money went to Posavje for the Phoenix Development Centre. I also find it hard to believe that this is just the building of some monuments, as he said to my great joy no longer the only honourable Member of the Party, Comrade Tsukati. For example, in the previous term, Anton Martin Slomšk's elementary school was built on Vrhnika. It has a beautiful, large, beautiful gym, and I also played dolls in it, and it is probably one of those parts of sports infrastructure that counted how many square meters are in central Slovenia for this purpose. In short, I find it hard to believe the eyes listed here. The reasons you yourself are giving in favour of interpretation speak to me more strongly against. I'm glad the Ministry decided to do what it did. I am pleased to draw on European funds. I'm glad to draw them out for the purpose of sports, which happens rarely. And I hope that when we decide in a decade whether it is only right that some call and European funds will give Ljubljana money for the subway, that there will now be no argument that, yes, Prague will also apply, because it also has already developed railway infrastructure, there is no need for the Prague subway, although I recognise that the railway infrastructure there is good and that it would not be as difficult to build an underground railway there as it is in Ljubljana. Of course, it is necessary to weigh whether things are important and necessary or not. I am sure that the Ministry has made the right decision, but they have already explained and not once, on several occasions that they have done so transparently, clearly, legally, so that I have no reason to support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. A replica, but only as a proponent. You are not on the list of SDS discussers, so of course you cannot say the same. As a proposaler, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u122	So I haven't spoken to the president today, if I understand correctly. So I'm... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u123	It's like SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u124	I am very pleased to acknowledge Mr Rožej's recognition that there are sufficient sports facilities in the Podrav region and, as a result, it is likely that this applies also to the coastal region, the Savinja region, the Gorenj region and the Kori region. In fact, all of these regions are excluded from the possibility of success on this call, which was at a low level of 9 million 400 000. Although he is a nice, honourable Member, you find that you have enough, you have sufficient sports infrastructure and you no longer need public funds. At the same time, you note that Ljubljana needs this because it cannot afford this in another arrangement, especially a public-private partnership. This project was designed with the idea of a public-private partnership. Your prime minister, who you so support, said he would not be given the euro of budget money. Now you want to justify how he needs it. Isn't that the kind of salad mortal in approach to this project? A little consistency in all of this is, of course, very necessary. Now, here's a little something about the Phoenix call. I'd love to hear that I helped Posavia more than I should. Even the hint that something was wrong. I ask you, do you nod if you nod, esteemed Rose or Mr. Rose: "What procedure have you initiated against this? What did you do to clarify the circumstances of this invitation to tender to determine whether something was really wrong? Are you just talking here at this chair about alleged irregularities, or did you say anything, or did you trigger any acts, which acts, because this invitation was okay? Unfortunately, this project, which was one of the few that has met all the criteria of economic eligibility, even under the supervision of this government, has been fully suspended. That's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. No, no, no. So it's mag. Andrej Vizjak does not formally have a replica, because he always speaks as a proponent, so the replica of Rozje is allowed. Just like if he comes forward again No, that's not what this is about. [[...]] It's just that the proponent doesn't have a replica. He can always speak, the replica is an exception to the opposition, from this point of view, the business [[...]] Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u126	The Honorable President. Mr Rozjej directly, directly mentioned me in his performance and I wanted to correct the false statement and correct his statement. The only thing that's possible is a replica, so I had a replica, and that's what I told you. And don't tell me I don't have a chance to express it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u127	You don't understand. You're the proponent, you can talk and you can talk to the word at any time and you can talk as long as you want in the frame of time, it's always been that way, it's not the first time. I'm giving the word two replicas are here. [[...]] Mr Tiny, you haven't discussed it, you haven't debated it, I'm sorry, I can't give it to you. Vito Rose, Replica You can contact me at any time [[...]] [[...]] [[talking to each other]] No, you spoke as a proponent! Mr. Mag. Visak, you even directly asked him to answer you. Yeah, you asked him directly to answer you, and now you're telling me not to give him a replica of that. It's not procedural! In addition, you have spoken as a proponent and you can always speak as a proponent as long as you have time. You're, I'd say, a freed line. Please, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I think that every time a government is wise enough to shake the decisions taken by the previous government to decide which project it deserves to continue and which one it does not. As far as the water fund is concerned, which is what you asked me. You yourself know that the National Assembly has also held a public debate on where the money goes from these funds and you know that there is one set of legal and legal provisions favouring the use of water funds at one end of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u129	Comrade Roses, take into account the limitations of the debate. I gave you a replica based on what the mag said. A visor. We're not talking about new topics. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u130	I'm talking about the old ones, but unfortunately they're staying. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u131	So they don't fly yellow and red cards. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u132	As I said, I wanted to talk about the Phoenix project and why it's stopping under this government and spending money from the water fund, which I hope you've done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u133	Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u134	Yes, we have no other choice, but, honourable President, see if you have allowed Mr Rože to talk about the water fund; we have tried several times to convince the former Minister of the Environment, Mr Karl Erjavac and the current Minister that Posavje is being flood-prone and that the funds for co-financing hydropower plants on the Lower Sava, when we are talking about investments in water infrastructure, are also being provided from the water fund. The former Minister of the Environment and the current Minister of the Environment did not believe this. Nature, the revered Rose, has shown that Posavia is swimming! The plant was swimming, and in Sevnica, where hydroelectric plants were built, there was no material damage, and in Krske and Brežica, there was no significant damage due to the delay in construction. And I would invite Mr Rožje to step out of his misery once and come to Posavje to see what water can do to make it forever silent about the resources from the water fund!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u135	Havela beautiful. We're going back. Please also pay some attention to the Minister. Let's move on, peace in the hall. Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Good-bye! It is kind of a custom that in times of interpolation as well as in other topics, but especially in interpolations we get these bloc confrontations and unilateral descriptions of facts where everything is completely black or completely white. I think we can calm our passions a little bit and find that not everything is black and white in this story and that there can be a lot of things that we can discuss. Then the question is, of course, what will be the result? Last night, when I was reading the content of the interpolation, a little late, I could have read it sooner, but I read it completely, I was disappointed with the quality of the writing. The fact is that many evaluations, many opinions and many arguments that have nothing to do with the Minister of Education and Sport – please, if my colleagues can calm down a little, thank you very much – which have nothing to do with the Ministry of Education and Sport, such as the statement about the New Ljubljana Bank, the indications about the mayor's operation and so on. It has to be admitted that this has nothing to do with the interpretation itself. All we have to do is interpret the interpretation through three levels. Just as we do when we interpret any significantly higher quality literary products or poetry, we can have multiple levels of interpretation. The first level refers to the call itself, but then, if we know the matter a little better, we know that we need to go deeper and that there is a second level that relates to the attack on the stadium. But we can go even deeper and find that there is still a third level, which relates to the fear that all the etablished policies have in both the opposition and the coalition to this new "effective populism", we could tell him where, with all their contradictions, the best cases in the country are certainly Ljubljanski and Kohorski. The first level of the invitation to tender – it has to be acknowledged that it actually raises some issues. Most likely because I come from Kopra and therefore more regionally or unilaterally look at this story, because I am also looking at what Koper had in this matter, whether it was dealt with fairly or not, or whether it was dealt with equally, the invitation itself left a certain bitter taste. Even before the decision on the results, it was said that four applicants had applied. In conversations in Cyprus, too, those who were engaged in the invitation to tender said to me at the outset, "Luka, be aware of the difficulty of not having a chance under the terms of this invitation." Now I can talk about how the criteria have been set. And here is where we can actually have some kind of debate and we can also disagree. And even personally, in all the criteria in this call, I completely disagree; honestly, collegiately, comradely, I do not fully agree. The criterion of sports surfaces per capita, as I understand it, will always be in favour of large, narrow urban settlements. Because it is clear that some place where you have a narrow urban settlement with blocks, 12, 15 floors, will have 10,000 inhabitants in a relatively narrow area, and if it has two stadiums, this will still be shared with all tens of thousands of inhabitants significantly less than the municipality with 6,000 inhabitants, very rurally dispersed, which will also exceed this criteria of "per capita", i.e. per capita, or that does not mean that sports areas are actually equally accessible. Because – I will limit myself to some part of Ljubljana – if you have some sports areas in the area of Bežigrad with large blocks in the middle of all these blocks, it is clear that these are very accessible to the entire population in that area. However, if you have a rural congregation that stretches for miles and miles, it is clear that you cannot guarantee the same accessibility and that you also need some dispersion of sports areas. And it is also clear that, under such criteria, Ljubljana will still have a lot of time ahead of Koper, because if we look at the stadium area in Ljubljana and the stadium area in Koper, which is roughly the same as the FIFE criteria, of course, if we divide that area into 290 thousand people in Ljubljana or that area by 50,000 people in Koper, it is clear that Ljubljana will always be ahead of us, at least until it has 300 thousand or 290 thousand people and something, that is six times as long as it has six stadiums in Ljubljana, under this criterion still precedes. And it is right here that we have some dialectics and that we should talk about whether these conditions are really the right ones to determine that funds will be appropriate, not right or right, but properly distributed. And here, Mr. Secretary, you already know, of course, because you noticed that we were not satisfied in Cyprus, understandably that we were not satisfied because we didn't get a dime. More could be done in this area. 9 million 400 could also be distributed differently than only 9 million Ljubljanans and nothing, for example, Copru, who, in his own debt, builds very high-quality sports facilities, but this was the decision of the tendering commission. I don't think you guys had much to do with this invitation to tender. And now, from not agreeing to set certain criteria, to asking for your resolution, there is a long way to go and there is no essential link. So, let's pull it off. This call left some open questions that leave us with the possibility of closing these questions until the next time, so that we will not leave the same bitter taste again. However, it is clear to all of us that it was necessary, and thank God that we are, to use European funds, and that in any case it is better that the call has been made – congratulations go to the Ministry of Education and Sport – that the funds have been used and that six months have not yet been looking for solutions, have come to ineffective conclusions and would eventually return to Europe. But it's just level one. The second level, a little deeper, but in the public eye, is that it is not really a strict debate about the technicalities of a call, but it is an attempt to use one day of parliamentary work today to discuss the Ljubljana stadium, how it was built and why it was built. As has already been said a few minutes ago in this Chamber, I also think that with such attacks on a more or less successful project, those who strive that the current Ljubljana mayor would no longer be elected, do a bear service, and actually help him with this. The fact is that this is the sports infrastructure we wanted throughout Slovenia. We wanted such a stadium to have, clearly, of course in Ljubljana, and that our team would play there, basketball, football, handball and others so that other events could also be held. From this point of view, I think that it is a mistake to trouble the stadium itself, because, after all, this has already been said many times today, as the previous government also envisaged such a sports infrastructure in Ljubljana. So there's not much of a difference in content. But there's a third level. And this is the one that's most interesting from a sociological point of view. It is this fear that what I have previously called effective populistism, which we all have in the National Assembly, especially the etablished major political parties, who see some new political forces being born at the local level, which are very driven, must be recognised, charismatic individuals who, in a populist way, often in a less transparent way and perhaps even an illegal way, perhaps, but still carry out the project and realize it. And that bothers us on the one hand, let's face it, it bothers us, because in most cases the classic policy, where all the rules are taken into account, more than it should be, all the hands, more than they should, fail to deliver the right results. And this is what must be a lesson mainly from Kopra and Ljubljana, so that we must work on efficiency and that we must not be afraid of this efficiency, that we must not spit on an excellently executed but excellently implemented project that leaves questions that need to be resolved, but we have a stadium and a hall. And this is a successful, real project. The same thing is happening in Cyprus, and only when we all learn together, the opposition, the SDS, the Social Democrats and other major parties, how to combine this efficiency, this effective populism with some minimum, ethical, political, democratic standards, will we become competitive again at the local level. Clearly, people want results, not rumors, but what we do all day is the opposite. We talk, we talk, we talk, and others bring results. So I will conclude with my proposal to a fellow opposition to watch the film, a very good, very instructive Whack the dog, where a certain president, who has some scandals, personal scandals he wants to expose, of course begins to attack and tame some story about a war in Albania and his country's involvement in this war, so that the public prefers to deal with those rather than their own problems. This story can also be very instructive for the opposition, which, in my opinion, is trying, in a very wrong way, to attack others, on some things that stand on very shaky feet, just to hide its own fear of inefficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Silva Črugelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome the Minister with my colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, let me say very clearly and unequivocally that I will not support the decision on the interpretation of Minister Igor Lukšič, but not because the Minister is of the kind of party I belong to, and not because he is the Minister of Education, but because when I read the interpretation somehow in the summer when I received it, I first thought that it was a short synopsis or that it was some summary of some interpretations and that some new reasoned interpretation was coming. But now, in fact, I admire this minister that at these 69 points, which were, in one way or another, by the words of the predecessors, perhaps even lacking or not clearly stated, he wrote such a brilliant response to the interpretation or defence of all those put together. The answer, of course, is very good and I wonder what was the point of setting up such an interpretation. The rush or the provocation or what the minister in his response said very well, two plus two is four, or Andrea Richter, one plus one is two? And I'm going to say whether the proposal for interpolation was like those three boxes, one of which is in one ball, and now I'm going to find which ball it is in.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u139	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u140	Good. I will not list the statistics how many times the Ministry of Education and Sport has been called, how many times has the name Jankovic been called, because this has already been repeated by my predecessors, but I will only indicate what all my predecessors have said about this interpretation, that the farce, that the imamparia is unprecedented, is an unfinished document, that the unfinished matter is a set of instigation, useless text, suspicion, incomplete, superficial and incomplete matter, that it is unnecessary to waste time and so on, a snag, someone even said that it is a "slabasing", a poorly prepared text. And one of the experts from the National Assembly stopped me and said, "You know what, it's an insult to me." And then I thought, and I said, in fact, this could be an insult to all of us in Parliament, that is to say to parliamentarians, Members, including those who had to respond to this interpretation. Because if we worked very hard, we could find more arguments on how and how to deal with one thing. And it would probably be good to look for standards and norms, how and how to set interpolation. Because I have read a few of them, and unfortunately I have also had to write some of them myself, answers on behalf of the Group of Members, but I have not actually seen them. But maybe it's the Internet era that brings such short, shoddy sentences, which may be a challenge for all those creative people who work in this area in one way or another. One mother said to me, "But I am happy if, for example, the succour of this parliamentary interpretation of the stadium is at the Stožice." She said, "I am glad that we have this stadium in Stožice, that the son will no longer fly in Zagreb, Belgrade, Vienna and London, so that he can listen to his bands in Ljubljana." We do not know some of our national investments in some way to rejoice, to rejoice, as do others. The Zagrebians made their national and Arena during the war, and finally the Arena in Belgrade was made just after the war, and we actually had only one way to get this facility, which was built in 1960. My friend Kumer said how and how many people participated there and in what mandate the first things, money and plans began. He was Chairman of the Sport Committee, last but not least, President of the then Council, City Council, was your colleague Dimitrij Kovacic, Mayor Viktori Potočnik and Mayor Rupel, and I was President of the Social Committee and President of the Finance Committee was Metka Tekavčičeva. And believe me, at a time when there weren't a lot of money and there wasn't as much money as there was between 1999 and 2004, it was damn hard to spend money on this project as well. All right, all right. The war, it worked, I mean, it must have been the victims, some are very pleased, but I think that this national pride and project can be proud of us. I think it's safe that the taste of this interpellation should not be in any way just a stadium in the Cottons. And I will actually read some of the short accusations that have also been made at the expense of the Ministry of Education and Sport's policy on other investments and kindergartens. "Despite the fact that the previous government has adopted the Amendment to the Kindergarten Act and has arranged a free kindergarten for other and further children, this has not been followed by investment contributions." Of course that's not true. This year's co-financing programme included 10 projects for kindergartens in a total investment value of EUR 12.5 million, of which the Ministry of Education and Sport contributed 4 million 93. In this year's budget, the Ministry of Education and Sport for Investment earmarked EUR 2 million, with a rebalance in 2009, the Ministry of Education and Sport doubled funds for investments in kindergartens, and in 2010 the government allocated an additional EUR 7 million from the European cohesion policy for the construction of kindergartens. The former government invested €1.1 million to 1.2 million in the construction of kindergartens at that time, as we say, from 2006 to 2008 and 1.6 million euros in 2009. I think the numbers in themselves say, but so do the statistics. Aware of the spatial hardships and, finally, the forgetfulness of the demographic boom that everyone can actually plan, this is a great success because all previous governments, in particular the previous ones, could plan it well and also have sufficient resources to pay more attention to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Igor Luksic wanted the word. You have a procedure, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear President, I would still expect you to warn the discussers that the interviewee in this case is not a stadium in Stožice, but a Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Lukšič. That's what we're supposed to be talking about today. I looked at the magnetogram of what he said so far here in the hall today. He has not replied to any of the observations that have led to the interpretation, but, above all, to the findings that have been made by the applicants today again on this speaker. I expect that he has signed up for the word that he will finally respond to these findings and that we will stop listening to these general phrases about how and how and by what quality the interpretation is prepared. You obviously haven't read it. If you did, you'd find that "shampast and shabaiser" is the answer to this interpolation. Whether this investment was the most cost-effective and why the headquarters in Stožice is still much more expensive than in Zurich and whether it is really the most optimally carried out and why the stadium behind Bežigrad, Plečnik's stadium, is still failing, I suppose this will be a second-time debate, even in this high-level assembly, but today this is not the subject of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u143	And that wasn't a procedural proposal, but a comment, a special impression, if I may say so. Thank you very much. Dr. Igor Luksic asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u144	I think it is simply not right for colleagues from the SDS to enter the normal course of this meeting by means of procedural interventions. In fact, when I made my statement, there was also a need for a procedural proposal, because SDS colleagues thought they could dictate what I should say. But I will say something about what Mr Juri was talking about, the question of how sport is discussed in the National Assembly. During my term of office, sport was discussed twice. This is the second time. For the first time, on the proposal of the SDS, the Committee on Education, Culture, Sport and Youth is meeting again in an excellent way, as it is now, as if everything is wrong in Slovenian sport. The national sport programme is currently under discussion. One programme was adopted in 2000 and this call was made in accordance with this programme and is now a new one in the debate. In October, there will be another major open public debate and then we will go slowly into the procedure and then open up all these questions about regional criteria to a new picture of the development of Slovenian sport, what we imagine under the same regional development, what this means for cities, big cities, capitals and a purely marginal village there. That will certainly be an opportunity, and I look forward to this debate, because it is also the main theme of sports policy, and I also want the support of the National Assembly here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, who now holds the meeting, we are not discussing the sport programme, we are not discussing the beauty of the Stožice, we are not discussing now whether or not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u147	My friend Tanko's procedural proposal. You're telling yourself we're not discussing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u148	Wait till I tell you I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u149	Procedural proposal, if not, I'll have to take your word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u150	We are not talking about whether locker rooms and other ancillary facilities are functional in this stadium, but are discussing whether the procedure for the allocation of public funds at this facility has been conducted legally or not. And in the interpretation we wrote that this procedure was not conducted legally because the solutions to such an approach decided by Minister Luksic were not implemented on the basis of the appropriate basis in the law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u151	Comrade Tanko, a procedural proposal or we'll take your word from you. That's a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u152	And so, Madam President, I suggest you invite the Minister of Education and Sport to respond and base his response on the interpretation findings. On the evidence from the interpretation and also on the indications that the fellow Members had in the debate at the time of consideration of this point. We're not interested in other things. If we want to discuss bird singing at any time, dear Minister, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko, I understand that you have made a procedural proposal and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u154	However, we want answers to the questions raised in the debate and to those put in writing in the interpretation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. It is quite clear that the President is not a member of the examination committee and does not assess the answers of ministers or, of course, not the debates of Members, except in terms of formality, and therefore, of course, I reject this procedural proposal. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister and Minister, nice greeting! We have not signed in the Slovenian People's Party of Interpellation, but we will support it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we first drew attention to the call that came to the public that, in our opinion, it is discriminatory. Moreover, on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, when we had information that such an invitation to tender was being prepared and would be discriminatory to other facilities and regions in the country, we asked the Minister for Local Self-Government, who is SVR and he, as Minister, the managing authority, whether there was any truth about it. His answer was explicitly "no, I don't know anything about it." Later, of course, the Minister for Local Self-Government, when the invitation to tender was outside, dragged out, Czech Minister Lukšič, Minister for Education, is the intermediate body and is responsible for such an invitation to tender. Of course, he also received a green light from the Minister for Local Self-Government as the governing body. Mr Minister, there was simply no need for such an invitation to tender. If there were no such invitation to tender, there would be no interpolation today, for a simple reason – you had other instruments. In the National Assembly, we passed the Main City Act, which we opposed, which brought just as much for the good morning of 15 million euros at the annual level as much, and so on for a good night at every project as anyone would like. You have this written down in your marriage and, of course, through the law, you could perform this calm soul in such a way. Why you went through the invitation to tender and also played an instrument of invitation to tender, it is not really clear to me. Your explanation that this was left over from the previous calls, some six that didn't make use of it, and that then you called it like you did, I don't think it's right. In the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials 2007-2013, €263+46 million is available on page 94 of the Connecting Natural and Cultural Potential, i.e. almost €310 million of European funds. Why, Minister, you are not a share – otherwise I do not have this information because on the Internet, both on your ministry's website and on SVR's website, the most recent data on the use of European funds by management authorities are from 31. 12. 2009 So, how many of these 310 million have you already called? How many contracts have been signed, and in the end, how much has he also recovered from the European Treasury into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? In my opinion, if you are in the middle, then this is fine if you are under half, not good or at this point should be in view of the comparative period of use of European funds 2004-2006, because we are already at least 80%. To say that you gave this because these funds could be lost and not used is not only from this context, but it comes from the whole context of all three operational programmes that must be used in this year – that is true – at around 960 million euros, as we have already talked about at one of the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. And according to the information available, it really seems that this government coalition is going to spend about 250 million euros, which means that it will be so much less used and, of course, we will never be able to use it again in 2010, because the period 2007-2013 N+3 this year is 31. 12. concludes. So it was simply insulting, rude, and unfair. So much more unfair because you wrote to Slovenian municipalities that co-financing of sports infrastructure for 2010 will not be that you made the 2009 call in 2010 and now wait. I don't know why. On the other hand, Mr Minister, you have seen exactly one of your performances earlier, to be angry that drawing on European funds is too slow to make the systems so oriented, even from the previous government. Well, it won't hold. It will be said, however, that this very government of yours and the Secretary of State is with the Minister of Mags. Gaspariu, Mrs Jerinova, as soon as she hasn't even sat well in her chair, has already flown to Brussels to explain how you will change both the governing body and the intermediate bodies in terms of European funds. So you have to attribute all of this to a bad draw on this government. Today we talk about the previous, in the period 2004-2006, and at the end of today you also have the final report of the Court of Auditors, so, perfectly exhausted, of course it is irrelevant. It is more important, Minister, and here is also the resentment of the Slovenian People's Party, which is why we will support the interpretation that you did not go to the call for the remaining funds available to you for the whole of Slovenia, under normal conditions so that everyone can apply. Those you are speaking here today, like some guys who don't really know what the budget is and what the European funds are, and without providing these European funds in the budget for the payment and then in Brussels for the refund, you don't get in our national budget. They don't know what they're talking about, or it's embarrassing when someone writes something on their computer, and then they read it and babbling and babbling and babbling. Therefore, speaking on the side of the coalition, because we know we support and so on, yes, it is also clear in the opposition that the coalition will support its minister, but it would be nice to imagine at least a little bit of either the power of the arguments that the Minister is speaking or only out of power of position. And this time, there will be support for the minister, which I have no doubt, by the coalition, from a position of power. You were talking about the proportion of exercise surfaces per inhabitant and so on. This is nice and right, and of course this should apply to the whole of Slovenia. Of course, there are such stadiums that they make in smaller municipalities with an investment of €500 million, but by co-financing the ministry only €18,000. And such a municipality with such a stadium, which financed about 200 euros per capita per capita, would also, if possible, apply later to the invitation to tender as the Ljubljana municipality could. But the difference here is obvious. Mr Jankovic "holded a stand" for the government's three, one way or another, for the state-run elections. And of course, the payment just comes in, the godfather has to be thanked for an hour, and this time for the local elections, you just wanted to thank him that way. That's not good. I'm telling you, this is an opportunity you had to use in a different way, through the Main City Act. However, if you already wanted to make a call, you would have called for a difference of up to 309 million, as far as this item is concerned, strengthening regional development potentials. Only this would be the right and normal way to serve these things, and you don't have to put yourself in your teeth. For the end, maybe that's all. During the two years of your work, several ten thousand euros could not be found yet for those congregations, and for those primary schools that were broken by the storm, 2008, there was no possibility and there will be no. So, unfortunately, your head doesn't hurt, although you've been thoroughly informed and informed several times. More to at least make an effort to move forward in terms of transporting children to school, Minister. Here, again, I will tell you publicly that we pay the municipalities for 5 euros a kilometer for the transport of children to school. But if you want to go to Venice tomorrow, all these shipping companies will take you for 0.95 euros and they won't know you're ordering them today or tomorrow afternoon. However, the fact that we are paying for EUR 5 but you do not want to be here, you and the Minister of Transport do not want to step up to the municipalities. We ask nothing of you, but we just want this municipal budget money not to be used corruptly because it is being used corruptly. And that's because he's the only god who turns up, there's no other god, and you have to give him as much as he wants. Minister, do you realize that this year they signed contracts with the mayors 30% higher than last year when you asked them, for God's sake, almost on their knees, they laughed sweetly and said, "We'll give you 2% discount." One would hang himself from grief about what is happening and how government money is done, because, of course, municipal money is also state money. So we're powerless. On the other hand, we subsidise all these carriers, and the state subsidises all line transport and so on. But, of course, this concerns the transport of children to school. So, Minister, for these reasons, which I have listed, at least a few, we will support interpellation in the Slovenian People's Party, and I expect you to tell me today in your replies when the difference of up to 309 million is what it is and how much you know that we will also be able to invite other Slovenian municipalities to sign up for this invitation from this item to strengthen the natural and cultural potentials so that other Slovene municipalities can also reduce the negative share of the training areas, so they have been reducing, they have gained a greater share of the training surfaces per capita, because in the vast majority of municipalities we are trying to get at least those standards, not per capita, but at least for the compulsory learning child. So, the primary school kid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Minister Igor Lukšič asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Some of the answers he gave, despite the interpretation, to his colleague Pukšič. For those who have been following this since the morning, it is necessary to say that our colleague Puksic has joined us now, so he has not heard all the arguments and I apologize for having to repeat one thing, namely, it is not 309 million euros that the Ministry should draw, but it is only 78 million euros that we have available for sport infrastructure. 78 million. Of this, 14 million are already tendered in the first tender, 7 million in the first tender, 42 million are reserved for Planica and now around 9 million 400 have been awarded. For the next year, there are 5 million left, and we will call for another year. So, I'm glad, and here we are, at least in this point, that we have the same concern – how to draw on these funds so that they will be for this purpose, that is, for sports infrastructure and that the municipalities have as much of it as possible. And that's what I did. At least we're here together, so that can't be the reason you're interpolating to support it. What you're saying is that the reason for the interpretation is that the Minister didn't have enough hearing to cover the damage in the 2009 or 2010 budget in 2008. You are well aware, as Members of Parliament, that there is a procedure for allocating funds to the budget and also a procedure for how damage is declared and how this damage is then put into the budget. And Mr Pukšič and I had a series of talks on this subject, and we did not find any legal options to help, saying that the state budget would contribute some 10,000 euros, which the municipality has now contributed. Well, that can't be the reason. I've done everything in my power, but the legislation is like this, and you know very well that an effort has been made here. I tell you about transports, Mr Pukšič, that my anger is even greater than yours. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes! It is true that this is not within my purview, but I have already spoken to my fellow minister and three ministers when we began and when we took part in this problem of transport, subsidies for school transport and subsidies for transport in general. It's not well arranged, we're talking, we're looking at variants, I agree with you, too slowly. If you ask me, too much resources is too little money, I agree with you. We keep doing this, I admit, too slow, but you're right here. But there's no reason to support the interpretation, which is what you said in one of the reasons why I'm doing everything in my power to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you. The word has You want a replica? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Minister, I am grateful to you for that information, because I was talking about 310, the whole program because I don't know how it's divided inside. So of these 78 you said you still have 5 at your disposal, the rest is distributed. So here's the reason for the interpolation. Minister, 9 plus 5 is 14.4, 14.4 would call, give normal terms and, of course, then divide it as it is. Something's clear. There is only one way for public-private partnerships, but there is another way to use European and budgetary money. Everyone so far, all the mayors know that before the start of the investment you have to have an investment program covered, you have to have an IP, you have to have a DIP – you have to have it all – and the financial structure is closed. In this case, of course, then we are talking about Jankovic and Stožice and so on, the financial structure is not closed, for a circus of 90 million or more or 60, I do not know how many more open, no banks are lending these loans. Now he says he'll take it from the budget, the Ljubljana budget. Of course, through his army, he'll succeed, but that's his problem. Minister, that's the problem with interpolation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u161	Mr. Puksich, thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister, President! It is indeed interesting that today we have one special point, perhaps at this time, in some way also pre-election time, it would be more appropriate to discuss how we would work towards coherent regional development. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to talk about something else, but when I looked today at the possibility that it might not be today, I realized that it was at 11:16 a.m. that a full moon or a pinch occurred. Therefore, it is not surprising to some colleagues that even the full moon, as I have read it, is very possible to influence the mood of people, so it is possible for some of us in the 1990s to also be affected by this full moon. Perhaps in a positive direction, calmness, but for some, greater excitement, perhaps greater energy, greater pleasure, or the emphasis on everything that has done well this year. It is certainly important for the Slovenian sports stadium in Stožice. It's an important object. Like one of the colleagues said, colleague, an important facility for all the other events. Even for music concerts and for all that some may have gone elsewhere in the world, across Europe, and still walk, they will, and they will, and certainly also any of these events will happen now in Ljubljana. I think that whoever today somehow does not hope to admit that this object is an important object to sport, culture, especially the development of the Republic of Slovenia, somehow does not want to admit the fact. It was stressed by colleague Kumra from his father's history as to how things were going in this direction. So all recognition to all who have already dealt with this important facility in any way in the past. It is true that the opposition's colleagues are working in their direction, the coalition's colleagues in their direction and, consequently, this debate is so varied. The moon may have had an impact in this direction, but when I think back on a few meetings of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and when I think of a few meetings, a few plenary sessions where we talked about drawing on European funds and the efficiency of drawing on European funds, that we want to ensure coherent and equitable regional development, including some of the colleagues who have already discussed very vigorously before me, have been very colorful in these debates. And now that I have been here a few times today, I have been here myself some nine hours ago, so I have had the opportunity to hear several times already the explanation and somehow even a repetition of the explanation by Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšić, because I think he did the right thing to point out more than once what some have not had the opportunity to hear, but some of these facts we have heard so many times that we can almost recall everything mentioned. Call it in. Surely, then, I too could say why one of my fellow Members from the same constituency as I did, forgot about the White Krajina when he was talking about underdevelopment, less regional development, perhaps a subregistration. White landscape also has these problems in relation to roads, road links and further development. It may also be the area against Kočevski, where my colleagues are also at home, all the way to Ribnica. Of course, there is also an area that is slightly more developed, as far as transport infrastructure is concerned and now sports infrastructure, and I expect us to take a step further in the area of this type of development in conjunction with the Harmonised Regional Development Act. I believe that this interpolation probably had its causes in something else, as mentioned today. But I like another fact. I myself have written several times that even colleagues who debate, whether coalitions or opposition, have given great recognition to the Minister of Education and Sport as a great politician, as a great ideologist, as a political scientist, and that he also knows about this, not only is he great by law, but he is also extremely strong today to answer, particularly with determination and awareness of what he is talking about. This has been proved today, but I am convinced that today's interpretation will certainly not be accepted against the Minister or the suspension of the Minister of Education and Sport, and I am also convinced that the Minister will successfully continue his work towards education, sport, preschool education by the end of his term of office. Finally, in the debate itself, he stressed several times that things need to be looked at here in real terms, not just in real terms. And it was interesting that some of the discussions of some of the colleagues and even the presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups were focused on this direction, that some have even read the budget, I mean the items by the budget, so I really realized that this interpretation is today with some almost no arguments. And because they had available time, they also used it appropriately and made use of it. So I'm certainly not going to support the interpolation. I don't mind those who have somehow taken the Minister as their own, I would say almost as a victim, but he will certainly leave here as a winner. And also the object of the sports significance of Slovenian sport is one that means much to us, including those who live on the outskirts of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! If I were to be asked a year ago whether we would interpret the Minister, I would certainly say no, because it somehow showed that his ministry would be quite peaceful without any major shocks. In fact, he stepped on a very good bedline, as many problems were solved. In particular, desertification under the so-called Gabrov School System has been remedied. I could only deal with such less demanding tasks, or still quite difficult, as my colleague Jelinčič mentioned in his introduction this morning, i.e. projects, when you achieve a much greater impact with a few hundred thousand euros than with 9.4 million euros. I have been monitoring the work of the Minister in the past, and I have even been grateful to him for some things. For example, in those days when he sent his students to spy on churches in the sense of research, he gave me a good excuse that I didn't have to go to Mass when the priest asked me where you were, I said I didn't hope to go to church anymore. But let's move on to the main interpolation point, so to speak. Colleagues and colleagues have already listed a whole bunch of violations, and I'm going to focus on one point. In support of these funds, it has also been written that the rent will be for one game which will, of course, be received back by the municipal budget, i.e. a justification for this financial structure to be EUR 18,000 per game. For all derby they do not cash 18,000 euros, so they cannot return them to the municipal budget. The municipality cannot charge such costs and is essentially the rent of a thousand euro class if it is even possible to recover it. Of course, such misleading information in the invitation to tender should be responded to by everyone and, at least, by requiring the addition of the application. then this role would no longer be so well-founded. However, as colleagues and colleagues have already reasoned or discussed today, a number of mistakes and not only mistakes were made in the tender itself, even violations of the European Union and Slovenia's legal order. So the reason for the interpolation is more than enough. Let's move on to the consequences. The Ministry has now become an important co-investor in this project. Does he have any leads on what he invested in? In addition to being too expensive to invest, some calculations suggest that the Ljubljanaers paid for two stadiums and received one that sucked. For the first impressions, the first reports report that the stadium is unacoustic. Who did this stadium? Is it architecture? The construction was done by someone with five classes of elementary school. It's some sort of initial error. And at the non-acoustic stadium, world stars like Carreras, Leonard Cohen and they promise rock and roll scenes that will not come, because they perform in stadiums where there are 50, 60 and 75 thousand viewers. Last time I was alone, not even 14 days since I was at the U2 concert in Munich, there were 75,000 of us, no problems with acoustics. Bring them to the posts, and they will sing to the wall and hearers, but the audience will have a bad impression. Of course, that's for starters. What happens to us later? Worse and worse, they will soon discover that this stadium is not suitable for any major performances. On the other hand, who were we building it for? Until football, it's a stepmother's place. Club, a group of enthusiasts keeps football on some level. The basketball centres are moving elsewhere, and Ljubljana is no longer a synonym for basketball. Besides, building errors, stuttering. And even though it's small, it's 20 thousand people who are comatose, it was traffic chaos on Monday. 20 thousand people take home after the event. What did we do? [[advertising from the hall]] 75 thousand of us were on the highway in half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u165	Well, I don't think she needs your comments. He's got the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u166	In addition, it has been shown that this is a solution for drawing on European funds, as if any other alternative would have meant that money would have fallen. And yet we can read in the paper that from the Ministry of the Environment and Space, part of the funds were taken back into the budget and because there was no state share of the funds, 15 million Euros of European funds were lost, i think, for the New Town cleaners and something for water management in Brežice. What's going on out there now is how much money would be needed. With Minister Svetlik, poor withdrawal from the 500 million-dollar Globalisation Fund. They've run, I think, for 2.5 million euros to save Pomur. The transport ministry also has €80 million in air, mainly due to incomplete documentation, which can be read domestically, even due to untransparent transactions that could have taken place there, perhaps the consequences, the echo of this cartel deal at Zemon. Therefore, other ministries are also making poor use of European funds and the excuse to take and use it immediately is out of the question. In addition, I am not satisfied with the Minister's statement, explaining the emergence of the number of pis [[PI]] but we still haven't learned anything specific about the interpretation points themselves. We're engaged in transportation to school, we're dealing with a water fund, we're just not talking about the points of interpolation. And even though I never expected an interpolation to take place against the Minister, now that I am looking at all this data, I think she is quite justified and seems to support her.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Mencinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We are talking about the European funds, as well as congratulations to Jankovic, that he has embarked on such a project and actually made it in Ljubljana. All those who have doubts about the transparency of this invitation to tender, I think they have quite a few levers to bring these things down even by procedure. As such, it is also nice to report to the specific drawing-up of these funds. Let me say that such a hall is not only Ljubljana, but also Slovenia actually needs it. The location, geostrategically, at the very center of the country confirms an excellent location. Also, all the events that took place during that time confirm that a person walked and looked at license plates of cars that came to various events. So I'm sure this hall is placed properly and all congratulations to those who actually did it. The next thing I would like to remind you of the last call that was just before the 2008 national elections was a call for sports halls. In this part, I would like to point out in particular that it is kind of said that it has changed strangely just before labor. I hope that this invitation to tender will find out what happened at the time. One day ago in this hall we listened, "to cooperate, to cooperate, to seek common solutions for the good of the country of Slovenia, all of us". And I seriously doubt that this has been sincerely said. The more I join those who somehow find that some are closer, unfortunately, to the password: the worse for the country, the better for us. The next thing that was told here by the minister who explained these criteria and the choice under these criteria to the proposer, I think it is understandable to everyone. In fact, we are talking about the population per square metre and the funds adopted for each province. I'd like to tell the proposer here. If we are looking at Gorenjsko, Gorenjska had a number of important investments from the sport field during this period, this is Pokluka, this is the regatta center Bled, this is essentially a project called Planice, which is being driven. And I regret to say that through these projects, which are of national importance, we, as a congregation, have lost something. But we don't complain about it because we know that the funds in this part are limited. If we look at the Jesenice as a historical hockey den, if I look at a representative hatchery, including the NHL, I have to say that the city has 10% of the total population who are active members of sports clubs. That we have 100 olympics in the area from Ratec to Family. I think it's for a record book. But we decided on our own because there were no funds, and we started rebuilding ourselves with the 40-year-old sports hockey hall. The next thing I would like to do is, in the future, also as a member of the National Assembly, to start in the light of the situation which, I am talking about the economic situation, really to cooperate, in fact to devote some extraordinary meeting more, how to solve Slovenia and how to save Slovenia's development. I think that all too cheap is demagogies, extraordinary meetings, which create some impression of extraordinary conditions and that everything on average is promising anything, but nothing about where it's going to be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I will not support the interpretations against Professor Igor Lukšič. We have heard a lot of arguments today, how superficial and without the necessary argument it has been prepared. However, I don't know why you're so upset in the opposition, but I know even less why you even filed this intervention against Professor Igor Luksic's minister, but if we only implement the projects contained in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023, which was adopted by the Government in 2006. A few days ago, the Minister of Economy is Mag. Darja Radic has built a foundation stone for the economic centre of In Prime in Lower Idrija, where the Hidria Corporation will build an institute for materials and technologies. 9 economic centres were in this resolution for the period 2007-2023 and only this In Prime centre is being implemented under this government in practice. Everyone else was, and they're only on paper because the projects weren't ready. Minister Lukšič implements the project of the Nordic centre of Planica, which was also recorded in this project, in this set of projects for the period 2007-2023. So we're essentially doing those projects that you've put together as a list of wishes for paper. After all, the Stožice project was, of course under another name, under the name of the Leon Štuklja Sports and Business Park, already written in your map, which is an integral part of this resolution, so I do not know why you are then getting upset and reading to Minister Lukšič to help build this project with this call and with these not even ten million euros. However, this project would not have been realized at this time by the current authorities in the Municipality of Ljubljana if our colleague, Mr Anton Kolarič, had not signed contracts nine years ago on land and purchase of these lands, where today this business and sports facility stands. Let me remind you that colleague Kolarič was then a mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana. As it is said, I will vote against the interpretation of Minister Luksic, but I will also conclude my debate, because I would like to save some time and I think that 13 hours is more than the expected time for an infertile debate than was heard today by the opposition's proponents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you. The word is given by Mrs. Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister and Minister, colleague and colleague! I am one of those who have spent the most difficult part of today's debate in this so-called fruitless debate that Mr Bevk spoke about, and, of course, I have heard at least three times the Minister's response to the key points of interpretation at that time. His answers also confirmed the opinion I had when I was already reading the answers to the interpretation, that they were building interpellation investors on opinions, prejudices and not on facts. Mr Minister mentioned that the calls or the entire procedures for the implementation of these calls were examined by 11 institutions. Among them is one of the key players in addition to the Ministry of Education, including SVLR, is the Government Service for Local Self-Government. At the very least, it is likely that the Minister for Local Self-Government should also be here to interpret. If we are talking about such a strong belief that an invitation to tender will fall before the European institutions, then it would be worth waiting until that happens, and I am convinced that there would be no problem for the interpelling investors to interpret the Minister. This way you are in great difficulty and this suspicion is confirmed, which is constantly dragging through the debate, that we are actually talking about interpretation, which is a completely different function. Well, let's leave all these facts, I'm not going back to arguments and arguments. I would point out only point 19 of the interpolation, which investors somehow used again out of resentment because it blew up one of their electoral promises or the realization of their electoral promises around school diet. Following the contenders' argument, the Ministry of Education confirmed that it would like to allocate EUR 20 million from the budget reserve only a week later when free student meals were abolished, and this would be of equal value due to alleged austerity measures. This is said to be because of a school lunch, which is now organised differently than it was previously, it is supposed to save or the ministry should save 20 million euros. A mere budget perspective shows us that, in fact, the Ministry of Education did not in any way reduce the funding for school meals, but it organised it differently. The School Diet Act replaced the previous law on the subsidisation of student diet, which was built on the universal income for student meals, while the diet for primary schoolchildren was quite irregular. At a time when we are facing a major crisis and some fellow members of the opposition species have also pointed out how great problems parents of primary school students have to pay for school meals, the only useful measure was to redistribute resources and somehow to subsidise both primary school meals and diets with the same vats. In two-thirds, subsidisation of pupils and primary school diets is ensured, and for a third of primary schoolchildren and pupils, the total amount is settled. This means that a much more solidarity-based approach to the allocation of limited social resources is being taken and that in this way those who can do so also contribute a certain part to school nutrition is easier than those who cannot. I think that this should be quite consistent with the doctrine of a party that has behaved in not so long ago with the title'social'. The fact is, interpellation against the school minister Dr. Igor Luksic is, in fact, a cover, behind this cover, is a shadow interpretation against someone else. You will receive an answer to this interpolation on October 10th. They will answer you directly to Ljubljana and Ljubljana. And as the speakers have already warned, you will find that this manoeuvre is not worth it, that it is likely that the mayor who is running again will receive not only 62%, but a percentage more, and that this beating of empty straw, which has lasted for nine hours in Parliament, will not help anything but waste time and tax money.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, Mr Minister, Minister, as I see another Minister, I welcome everything! Dear Minister, today you are faced with the interpretation of the opposition's duty to act on a discriminatory and fictitious record in the call for public funds for sport infrastructure. My colleagues have already talked about this and have shown solid, clear evidence that this call has been made. In the debate, I would be particularly interested, Mr Minister, in how it could have happened to you. Because I'm disappointed that you too have agreed to be given the Jar of Jankovic's servant. Not only did you get involved in his thinking and understanding of the rule of law, or the politics of dual morality — for some, everything is allowed, to fabricate everything, to change laws, to interpret them in its own way, and to cash in the fabulous profits for the companies in its orbit. And when a colleague earlier said that she would get no idea how much interest, she probably talked about the commissions that Mr. Mayor would get in the end. It happened to you, Mr Minister, that you went to the level of a traffic inspector who, in order to protect the legitimate demands of unpaid subcontractors and slave workers at the stadium, declared that the Rondo was just before the collapse and closed it. I myself have asked a question of my own to Minister Vlačič, who has already answered me. He said that objects are measured in a way that is both static and dynamically resistant to all burdens, which means that a situation where objects could pose a general threat to humans or users is so completely [[Incomprehensible]] He admitted that the traffic inspector acted under the para-state. But no sanctions, no decisions. Instead of offering a resignation if that happened to him. And, Minister, I urge you to stop defending this discriminatory fictitious invitation. This makes you an easy figure on the mayor's chessboard. And my disappointment goes in the direction of how it is possible for a political party, some option to change a self-sustaining intellectual, which I have somehow admitted to you, I have also repeatedly given you as an opposition member of compliments, in fact, an operator of a policy that is servile, as has already been said today. You have to defend the entire tycoon method. And since you mentioned in your reply today, Mr Minister, when you mentioned the interpretation, you said that such a text was inappropriate for the example of the young generation. So I wonder if you're aware of the examples you set for the young generation. But you're also the university teacher and ideologist of a party. I have expected, Mr Minister, to speak of this at times, that after you were liquidated as party vice-president at the Congress, you would be liquidated as party vice-president because instead of you, the Vice-President became Mr Potrč, and instead of Mrs Potrata, Mrs Potrata and the second day was ordered to all newspapers that this was the victory of youth. Because they're 20 years older, it was the victory of youth, think! And, of course, I expected you to walk even more uprightly, but apparently you've been broken, otherwise you wouldn't go to that call. That is why today's debate, Mr Minister, is primarily a debate on the values and state of the spirit and the state of society. And I am also disappointed by this, and this is part of the debate that the Government, along with my colleague Petko, has put him on the line that a university teacher, who should be an example to young people, has promoted fascist slogans, Mussolini's saying. And I asked you, along with colleague Friday, what are you going to do with Mr. Golobic, who is responsible for raising young people to have a perfidious sympathy with samples of fascist history? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u175	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u176	No, I have to say this. by young academic teachers, such as Mr Luka Juri, does not pass on to the young generation. [[...]] Think about it! You turned down the question. You have denied the Government a question, this has not yet happened in my 15-year history as a member of Parliament. On such relevant social issues some political scientist, some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u177	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u178	rejects the question together with [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u179	These were Members of Parliament's questions, we have interpretation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u180	I'm talking about what's on today's show. And, of course, the worst symbolism and message coming from such a call and defending some discriminatory call and defending some tycoon manners is, I can say, worrying and terrible. First of all, let's ask why the Stoice project was so expensive. It says here, in serious articles, already in April, that the Stožice Stadium will be more expensive than the Zurich Stadium. Serious analysts knew the situation back then. And why was Mr Jankovic interested in such an expensive stadium? Here's a comparative analysis of the stadium. If I had the same stadium, not the mall, but the same stadium was built in Zurich or Germany, it would have been 20-30% cheaper. When 20% of that budget should then remain, subcontractors and those slave workers were not paid, but served these families from this mayor's orbit. The Serbs would say, "They're on their own first." That was important, that's what it had to be. And the others didn't. This is where you jumped in to help. But if we could at least condition these funds to get these slave workers first, these shamefully humiliated, enslaved people and subcontractors so as not to commit suicide. No, that went to the general public. That is why I am appalled and cannot agree with these messages, because this is a constant in the operation of these parties. Look, in Slovenska Bistrica, by the way, also the Gaj shooting center from our municipality has run for office, why not give him 10 million and give him a call for this shooting center, if that's the case. Why didn't you give it to him? No, that's the policy on the march. For the mayor's candidate, these three parties have set these very values. There's also a candidate for your clients, a man who's become rich with tycoon receptions, and now he's having trouble paying off credits and all that. And now with the parishioners who are predicted to be professional, they appear to have hung themselves on the municipal budget as a solution. Now they will destroy our congregation. Hands off our congregation and the money of our congregation, I tell you! Since it has already been predicted that Mr Godec, even Mr Pahor, will be derailed from the railways, will be a professional mayor. We know where it's going and what it means. Mr. Krizanic, I think he's supporting this. He'll even come in for support to explain how to work. Who is a silent associate of silent associates with the Stožice? Mr. Cross knows what I'm up to. Who are the silent associates of the silent associates of those performers? Instead of replacing Mr Križanič with the President of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Maribor. I told him once that foxes can't watch over chickens, but he's gone rogue. I was kind enough to tell him. Support for such a policy, such tycoon methods go through everything and through elections all the time. You advertise such candidates. It is time to say out loud that this must end and stop supporting and advertising it. Dear Mr. Secretary! It's an opportunity. I don't mind if you're defended for your past merits. You had original thoughts once as an ideologist. You seemed up enough to me. Once again, I'm disappointed that you've been brought into this ditch by the Ljubljana mayor. And this invitation of yours is a terrible thing. These messages on dual morality, about two categories of people in this country, all are allowed, wealth at the expense of slave workers and all. This is unacceptable and it has to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This debate seemed to me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u183	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u184	This debate seemed different to me, so I took the floor. I don't care, you know, but Mr Jerovšek has discussed from the heart, is disappointed at what has happened to him and would like to comfort him that his disappointment is not based on facts and is not justified. Mr Jerovšek, I can calm you down. Look, I have to say, you're being misled, maybe you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u185	Mr. Jerovšek, please. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u186	If we were here all along with all these three times [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u187	I've been [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u188	You were? Did you hear how the call came about? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u189	All day [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u190	It was too slow, if you'd come to me with a call sooner, then there'd be more time, not just three weeks, but there'd be more time. [[...]] This regional criterion, which some of your colleagues, which you did not mention, is the core of the story, the regional criterion by which those who have fewer were rewarded in this case [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u191	It's a double morality. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u192	Why is it a double morality?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u193	Please, don't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u194	Those who have fewer are entitled by the State to receive more. What double morality?Oh, my God! So the one who doesn't have Modern Robin Hood takes where he is, and in his own pocket. [[...]] And that would be you? I don't think that's right. Look, I'm in favour of us giving the funds in accordance with the agreement. And this agreement was adopted by the National Assembly in 2000 to lead a policy in the field of investment, including sports, so that all citizens have roughly the same access to it. And that was the invitation. That's why I can comfort you that it's not a double moral that all these stories, the tycoons, the sub-Taconians, have nothing to do with me. Nothing. My income is little less than 1,000 euros per family member. You can have a look at all this revenue. I'm gone and I'm happy with it, I'm happy. But I think it's a good idea for those who don't have a chance. The municipality of Medvod was also mentioned here earlier. I am from the Medvoda Congregation, which was one of those mentioned earlier by Mr Jelinčič that he did not receive funds. That's too bad. That's too bad. I would like, from that invitation to tender that was moved, to be postponed in 2011, 2012, or now it can even be continued. But we still have the resources at our disposal, the European funds, as I said before 5 million, and there will certainly be something left, according to my estimate of 7 million, and we will now go into the tender immediately, so that in 2011, when it is possible to draw it, it is only in 2011 that it is possible to draw it. Mr Pukšič asked earlier why we did not call for all of this. Because there are rules here, when some means can be drawn up. And this 5 million and more will be available in 2011. We will go to the call as soon as possible, so that these funds can then be pumped. At least I have little hope that I have comforted you, Mr Jerovšek, that I have not strayed from any path. I'm still on the same line, my line, working according to my own conscience, we'll still be able to play basketball together, and I don't think there's any reason to sow any discord or unrest here at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I hope you understand that my talk about the tycoon methods did not fly on you, but that I am disappointed and that you feel sorry for me that you have to defend them. Methods carried out by others. If you're saying that the principle of equal access was here, I don't agree with that. Do not convince me that Ljubljana is the poorest area in Slovenia, that others have received more in history. And that, above all, the Podravska region, Mr Rožej spoke about this earlier, is a privileged region. That's not true. I ask you how much your predecessor, Mr Gaber, has done self-contributions for schools and gyms here in Ljubljana. How many self-contributions were there? In our congregation, citizens paid for each investment. Is that the same approach? Ljubljana has not had self-contributions since the school space memorial. And that's the same approach? I know you're defending this same approach when one of you has to pay for it all, dig for the plumbing and all the infrastructure we've been doing there in Styria, and everything is served on the table, and it's called the same approach. This same approach, Mr Minister, has not been used, and therefore I say that if you defend it, that you have been abused and then changed on the basis of the Congress which has so liquidated you politically and that you are trying to save yourself in this way, even more by removing yourself from those who have politically degraded you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u198	Some views were expressed today on how this interpretation is actually intended to bring down Zoran Jankovic before the local elections. I don't think that diagnosis holds. I think it is intended to show the whole of Slovenia how much this power is aligned with Ljubljana, and in this way to electorate and electorate a few weeks before the local elections confuses government policy to the end, to absolutely deter them from electing any of the government's parties. That's the point. To do what Janez Janša announced after the election defeat in 2008 that Ljubljana had defeated all the rest of Slovenia. You know, this is one area that can be very grateful in our electoral environment. My city has a mayor who is still considered to be the greatest fighter for Maribor. This gap and this conflict, the eternal derby between Ljubljana and Maribor, is a topic on which local patriotic emotions get a little heated. But tell me how to make a person credible, credible, when proposing to ministers and ministers of this government, "pay attention to these needs that we have in Maribor, to those needs that we have in Podravje", if at the same time deny that there are other objective needs in this country. That the fact that Prekmurje is, that Koroška, that Bela Krajina or Kočevska today is economically in a different position than Maribor. I think that this is expected from Members of the National Assembly, who are Members of all the people, but it is true that they have been elected in their local environments, but this credibility gives us a real awareness that we know how to assess things and some objective needs of people or of individual environments. We had a Maribor law here yesterday. An extremely grateful subject for beating the Mariborians on the chest, let us say how poor we are and ask for help from the State. Yeah. Until there's no one in this country who's in a worse position than we are. However, they are objectively based on all statistical indicators, by the quality of life of people and especially on the opportunities given by existing infrastructure to take care of themselves, many regions are in a significantly worse position. And so it is in this invitation. If we look at general development, of course Ljubljana has no chance to come along and so is correct. However, if we look at the more specialised criteria, we can see that in some areas Ljubljana is in a worse position than some other areas in the country. I rarely agree with the speaker, but today I agree. This debate is a debate on values and the state of the spirit. And it seems to me that with many acts the Slovenian opposition contributes very actively to the deterioration of the state of spirit in this country and to the loss of faith in all social values. I think that this is at the heart of the political actions that we always have the opportunity to observe in this House. However, there should be some confidence in the state. To let our people know that in these difficult times, when many are unemployed, when many do not see the prospect of tomorrow, however, they know that they can rely on this country. And I'm sure they can count on this country. Moreover, I am sure that even if Janez Janša led her into the country, we could depend on her because I am trying to look at the material of things as it is. But not as appropriate as our electoral base, as it meets every time political needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u199	I would warn you that the interpretation of Mr Lukšič is not Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr Cukjat, but I am talking about the matter of this interpretation and the reasons for this interpretation, Mr Vice-President. You know, and again I will continue this eternal conflict between Maribor and Ljubljana; some, especially in Maribor, are very persistently demonstrating that the three Maribor MEPs from the Social Democrats for Maribor do nothing. But let's see how much this government was not in favour of this Maribor. The Human Garden Sports Stadium, which is indeed the product of the invitation to tender at the end of the rule of the previous government, was at the point of the mistakes made by Maribor when the project was in great danger of not continuing. You can remember these stories from the media. Minister Lukšič, after the intervention of three Maribor MEPs, showed his affection for this Maribor, and on the basis of this experience, I can say, Minister Lukšič is probably very much in favour of Maribor as well as many other places in Slovenia, but it requires something to go "on the regelecs". And so he demanded in this case. And today we are about to open this Human Garden and its second stage solemnly in a few weeks. Not to mention the gondola, not to mention the university, the European Capital of Culture, the European Capital of Youth, the puppet theatre, the road infrastructure, because we have two years of resources in the budget for some purpose, but Maribor does not make sure that these funds can be used and that, say, the southern bypass is built. And in such a mood we are then faced with an eye, "Yes, you Maribor's Members, Chapič, Potrata, Frangež, you don't earn anything for Maribor". I think we're doing our job right. Mr Vice-President, I am talking about this because today many of the candidates for this interpretation have called the conscience of Members from other places across Slovenia, not from Ljubljana, to respond to this injustice, which is taking place in all other Slovenia, but not in Ljubljana. We're talking about this because it's a real political motive that this interpolation has actually been invested. The cones will never be a national monument to me. You can be proud of them, and I will be proud of them when the people who worked on this facility, subcontractors and entrepreneurs are compensated for what belongs to them. If anyone in these times calls me desperate, they are entrepreneurs, including from the Maribor end, who want to know what the state will do to make this facility complete and that people will get the payments that belong to them. Slovenian schools and sports are areas where we can be proud. I propose that you remain a field on which we will continue to be proud to unite this Slovenia because they are too important for the national confidence and ability of our people to burden them with short-term political needs, especially in the pre-local elections. Igor Lukšić I know for a long time and I know that it is a good guarantee that schools and sports in Slovenia remain as they have been.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected assembly, a respected minister, who I believe somewhere else listens to the continuation of this debate! My colleagues have already said, and I fully agree with them that the interpretation we are dealing with today is based on torn legs, as regards justification, valid reasons or serious arguments. This is well known by the proposer. So what does the proposer present today and here is the hepening we are witnessing and in which we even have to participate, of course not on our own initiative and without a rational reason; this is how I assess this interpolation. Not only does the motion for interpretation underestimate the coalition MPs and Members, Minister Lukšič and the indirect Government, but it clearly underestimates voters, the public and the sports public in particular. We know that this circus today is intended to impress voters just before the local elections, especially voters in Ljubljana, because your severe pain is that the Ljubljana voters are not overly fond of you and that Ljubljana has been a great object of political desire, unheard of desire for you so far. And it all seems like that's how it's gonna be. This unwise interpretation will also greatly help, I have no doubt, and in this sense we, here on this side, can only be grateful. There is no doubt in my mind that Ljubljana, the capital of our young country, needed a stadium and halls in Stožice. As it was perfectly normal for me to find money for the reconstruction of the airport at the last World Cup in ski flights. Not because I'm at home alone in Kranjska Gora or because my old uncle was directly responsible for the construction of the first Jumpers under the Ponces, but because today Planica is our national pride; here we can be the only. And it is also clear to me that, for example, it will be necessary to find the money to complete the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Ljubljana Opera, not because your former Minister Simoniti signed the contract for the start of the construction, but because he did not know that there would be enough money in the budget. But also the Ljubljana Opera is our national pride. So I suggest we do these things rationally. The Minister himself explained in the introduction today how the invitation to tender for the Stožice was, who and under what conditions applied for it. But you're deaf to that, but you don't want to hear the argument. Moreover, you laughed heartily and laughed when the Minister reasoned that Slovenia had also managed to obtain substantial European financial resources for this project and that it would be extremely unwise not to draw on them now and here and in time. Even the most heartwarming were the ones here today who are also the loudest in their mandate to be resold, for example, the Slovenian steel industry, where we still do not know where 200 million euros have been sunk, in whose pockets this money has landed. And these weren't European funds, they were our people's resources. And, of course, those who were bottling a harmful contract to resell Iskraemec, where hundreds of workers lost their jobs and stayed on the road. The previous ministers are still saying that the sale of Iskraemec to the Egyptians was a good deal or, rather, a good deal. But of course, for whom? Please! Go to Kranj and tell this to those who are now thanks to you without work, and their know-how and excellent brand have landed in Egypt! And now, of course, I understand why you don't like the word "salabaiser." In the meantime, I went to see what that means, and the majority marks say that the word "shalabizer" means someone who can't be taken by anything, and someone who doesn't learn anything from their own mistakes. Today I could say that there was another new explanation here that the word "shalabajzer" also means the one who takes the big shovel when he has the chance, and at the same time shouts, "Take the thief!" And it seems extremely unfair to me today to use this kind of baseless interpretation. I'm not going to tell her she's "shalabaiser," but I'm saying it's been a mess, as was already said on this side of us, because we're taking money and time from our taxpayers. These flowers, which you plant here today, will not bloom at the elections and will not be breathless, but if they continue to repeat so tirelessly the word relationship: From the hedgehog across the road to the pomegranate after the flower. You know, in these verbal relationships, because you've seen the more you repeat them, the sooner you'll get involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, both ministers and colleagues and colleagues! After nine hours it is difficult to add something wiser, but I will stop at some things and try to make a contribution to the fact that this interpretation you wrote is really a substitute for what you took to blacken Jankovic and Ljubljana. I don't think you're gonna make it today. Moreover, this is your love Jankovic and this Ljubljana of yours will gain from this interpretation today. I can't get rid of the feeling when I listen to your impressions on this interpolation that it's not an attack on Mr. Luksic, but it's entirely premeditated, I don't know if it's a confrontation, a fight. I must say, your attention is dropping, gentlemen, you're losing a lot of momentum. At the first interpellation, when you interviewed Mrs Kresalovo, 14 of you applied, today when Mr Luksic was interpelled, only 8 of you applied for the debate because I believe we have both television campaigns and field campaigns. And most of you are on a field campaign, and it might be nice for one of you to be on a field campaign without being on television. Because such nonsense that I have heard in this hall today is almost impossible. To be a little more telegraph and a little more plastic, as far as interpolation in numbers is concerned. 69 points has this interpolation. 34 points refer to the Ministry of Education and Sport. The 12 points of this are literally repeated. 17 points are intended only for questions of bank loans. This is that extraordinary session you wanted so badly, and you failed. The 18 points are then the same points that the SDS and the SNS gave and requested in March. The 4 points are literally a copy of Mrs Kresalova's interpretation. Interestingly, what my colleagues have already said and also Minister Luksic, you even write in women's sex. And so on, I wouldn't mention it. Mainly, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if we really want the interpretation to succeed, you should also be joined by the Slovenian People's Party with signatures. Mr Jelinčič could be a little more substantive and not just read a program or a number because he did not have the content for this interpretation and so on. I wish you a lot of success in Ljubljana in the local elections, but I believe that you will not succeed. I will never support the interpretation against Minister Luksic. I have to tell you, Minister Luksic is an extremely good minister. It's not just about saving school money. Personally, I did not get any money from the Ministry of Education in the congregation when they like to talk about what congregations get. However, we have received important substantive solutions: that we have increased the music school to receive another branch school and so forth. This is also how education is saved in this Slovenia. Once again, I won't support the interpolation, and I wish you good luck another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u206	Mr President, colleague Han freely acknowledged that he understood this debate as a pre-election campaign. And since he's the mayor's candidate, it would be right if he gave it up on his own. But since you have some mayoral candidates on your list, please ask your colleagues to resign here to the mayor's propaganda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are therefore discussing today the interpretation of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we have submitted this interpretation because there is a serious suspicion that the Ministry led by Dr Lukšič has narrowed down the terms of the tender, so that it only met one and a specific project. And here is the main problem, not whether someone wants a stadium in Ljubljana or not. The main problem is that the terms of the tender have been adapted to pass the law. This means that Ljubljana has received 10 million euros. Well, a little less. None of this was given to any other region or other city, but they also applied for this invitation! Like Copper. Earlier, a colleague of Juri from the Social Democrats said that we would like to go to Cyprus and that we would also be pleased with a single million euros. But no. Everything had to be done at the Stožice in Ljubljana, because Mr Zoran Jankovic calculated his calculations in the construction of the Stožice Stadium. Of course, it would be good if Minister Lukšič, who is not with us now in the Chamber, said whether he believed that the procedure for the allocation of public funds had been carried out legally or not. In our view, the procedure has not been carried out legally. But I haven't heard a single argument from him today that would disprove these statements. It would also be good for Minister Luksic to answer whether he considers such treatment to be discriminatory or not. Even so, and I have been sitting here for hours, I have not heard any response from the distinguished minister. It would also be good for the minister to answer whether this may not seem to him to be an inequality before marriage. Unfortunately, too, we have not yet received any reply from the distinguished minister. I believe that, unlike the coalition Members here today, that it doesn't matter, that it doesn't matter at what time the Stožice project was being built, I say that it is still important at what time such a mega-Romanian project was being built. I personally have absolutely no objection to such an object, I think Ljubljana needs it bloodyly, but I could do it more responsiblely and this project would delay for a time when in this country we would not have such severe financial problems, especially economic ones, that I am not talking about individuals who have severe social and financial difficulties. They don't even have the basic survival. That's why I see the controversy of this project, not in nature itself. It certainly needs this Ljubljana, but not at the expense of the workers and at the expense of such victims, which you were able to eat together, obviously only to carry out this project. This is the main problem, and this needs to be pointed out. And I see no reason why this debate is therefore infertile, as has been said on the other hand. This debate is by no means infertile. I am sure that the many who are watching us now find out how they live and what some of the coalition parties have ensured that a project has been carried out. Ljubljana deserves such a stadium, no doubt, there is no dilemma here, but I think that we should do so when it is able to make this a financial reality. In one of his speeches here, the President of the Government, Dr Igor Luksic, defended the Minister for Education and Sport, said, inter alia, that it was a national project, which ran out of money just before now. So someone just calculated. The project is simply running out of money, such a large project that is known to have a good look at what financial capabilities are and whether such a project is financially sustainable. Igor Lukšič then dedicated EUR 10 million to this project because the call was tailored to this particular project. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, some 30 million euros still remain in the air, which Mr Jankovic must receive from somewhere because he had to implement this project before the elections. If I am not mistaken by chance, Mr Jankovic always considered himself to be an extremely good manager, in fact a top-notch one, but probably in those days when he was Prime Minister of Mercator, it was easier to get the money because he was getting his money directly from the country. Now, however, the project decided to pursue a private-public partnership, but in this case Mr Jankovic was no longer able to calculate the financial resources needed to carry out the project. And he got away with his biggest project. However, despite all this irresponsibility and unconsponsibility, the configuration, which is undoubtedly represented by the Conjectures, has burdened future generations financially. And that's the problem. And I have slowly enough sentences to stand in opposition, especially in the Slovenian Democratic Party, against the stadium. No one's against the stadium. But it should be noted that this construction is not financially sustainable and that we have a major problem as a result. It's not a problem in the stadium, the problem is how the project was implemented for the first time. Secondly, it is not a problem in the stadium, but the problem is that by building, unfortunately, those basic fundamental human rights have been undermined, because people have been working in abnormal conditions and some have not even been paid for this work. And here the goalkeeper of the Slovenian national team expressed himself best when the journalist asked him how he felt today at the opening of the stadium of Stožice. And he said very nicely that there's nothing wrong with it, that it's nice, that we have a stadium, but it would be even better if the workers got paid for this construction. And here is one of the key problems of this project. And thirdly, there is no problem in the stadium that we now have, the problem is that a lot of things had to be tamed so that this construction could be completed. I must say that I support this interpretation, of course, because I believe that the things I have just said should be noted. Finally, I would suggest to Mr Jankovic that he may invest his own resources in this facility, given that he said it was an economically sustainable project and that he said it was a project that would bring financial profits. As far as I am aware, Mr Jankovic's magazine Manager has classified him as one of the richest Slovenians in this country, so that I really suggest that he take the money instead of taking it from the taxpayers and from this country, he commits himself out of his own pocket. I think that would be very good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I have carefully studied the interpretation, the response of Minister Lukšić and today's debate. I would like to point out, in the introduction, that the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Education and Sport has been put in place, but is only and exclusively linked to the invitation to tender relating to the Staff. In fact, today's debate has given a great deal of praise and praise for the Ministry of Education and Sport's conduct and policy. The only discussion was about the construction of the Stožice Park. Secondly, I would also like to point out that Members and members of the opposition have tried in every way to show that it is only a matter of invitation, even though they have actually talked about everything else. They wanted to show that they also wanted and knew that Ljubljana and Slovenia needed the Stožice Park, while saying that it was poorly funded so that it would not give results and so on. They wanted to say that they were aware that it was only a matter of funding and invitation to tender, while at the same time talking about the current mayor, his activities and the like. In every way they wanted to show that Slovenians and Slovenians know and understand that they respect that they also have Ljubljana as the capital and that Ljubljana also needs its facilities. At the same time, at every opportunity, they said that exactly what we did is not because we have uneven regional development and so on. I mean, you've been in a lot of trouble to blame Minister Lukšič for the invitation to tender and for the decision to co-finance the Stožica Park. And that is how I felt today, very, very clearly, in your debates. The same point remained at which you are more or less, not all, because it is also understandable that you did not all speak the same, insisted, that is, the issue of the call itself and its discriminatory nature. You admitted and agreed that the invitation to tender was necessary in order to use funds that could otherwise have been set aside and that there is no objection. You talked about that bad, that the call was made quickly, but with something, as we said to the Stajers, "snatting in the mouth," because you knew if it hadn't been done quickly enough and if it hadn't been signed in such a way that it was already valid for the started objects, this money wouldn't have been spent. And there wasn't much of an argument here either. And the last statement, which was that the terms of the invitation to tender were not appropriate because they were based on how sports facilities were distributed in Slovenian regions, but not generally on what is the development of Slovenian regions. To say that this is not one of the possible criteria, none of you hoped. This is one of the possible criteria. And if it's one of the possible criteria, then we can understand it differently. Any invitation to tender setting out the criteria shall also specify who may participate under this invitation and criteria, but who is excluded from the invitation to tender because it does not meet those criteria. And if you're saying that in such an understanding, every call is not discriminatory, then I don't know what else to say. Yes, everyone is discriminatory because they set the conditions, who can apply to the invitation to tender and what conditions that applicant must fulfil in order to be selected. And that's what this invitation to tender did to make it possible, but you're not, because you know that's not possible, we're discussing whether the conditions that were related to the conditions of sport were right in this case. Anything else, ladies and gentlemen, can only be your assumption, anything else can be unproven accusations, anything else can be insinuations. And that's something you've been doing very, very richly today. This is why I will not support the interpretations and proposals for the discharge of Minister Lukšič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr Vizjak as a proposaler made a statement to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much. There are quite a few arguments why I have to call back on behalf of the applicants. First time. It is true that every condition of the invitation to tender and also the criteria are a reflection of the desire to direct the call to finance something that is to be financed by the call for tender. But these criteria and conditions must not be such as to exclude some that they cannot be chosen at all. And that's what happened in this case, respectable Mr. Potch. Why? Because, according to regional criteria, there are 5 statistical regions which cannot be selected on this call. I'm talking about the Podrav region. Even if I did not know how to report a fantastic project in the Podrav region, I could not have been chosen because I would not have met the regional criterion. That's a fact. These tendering conditions are discriminatory, not to this limit, to target the quality of the project, but to exclude certain regions, irrespective of the quality of the project. This is not right, and this is discriminatory and contrary to Slovenian and European legislation. Look, there's something else. A fellow Member has already been alerted here. The Minister of Education also considered investment in the Slovenian countryside as an exclusion criterion, that is to say, where these investments went, they had quite a square metre of sports-recreational infrastructure according to the population. Do you know how this sport infrastructure has been financed in recent decades? Many times and mostly with self-contribution. And I'm asking you how many self-contributions have been made in the capital. We're talking about investing in the capital. Of course, it's very important. It's very important. And now it's because there's enough of this sports infrastructure, this elimination criterion, on the criteria it's like punishment. That's what they say. The places where they did it are now being punished. That's a fact. Dear representatives of the coalition, this is not the only problem in this call. I drew attention to a regulation that deals with procedures and possibilities for the allocation of cohesion funds. Article 16 of this Regulation states that it is possible to give and finance the eligible costs of an individual project even back, for work already done, but under certain conditions. One of these conditions is that works have been carried out under the law governing public procurement. I would like to know whether the private partner who has submitted all these works has already done so in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, since it is not possible to allocate public funds or state aid in return. We also consider public funds to be European and national resources. The biggest nonsense, however, is that we could not spend these resources this year. In Slovenia, a number of ready-made sports infrastructure projects have started to be implemented and important projects have not been able to apply at all for this call. A typical example is the construction of a sports hall in Brežice, which began to be built 14 days ago and could be co-financed, so it would also be possible for this sports hall to use European funds. So it's not true that this is the only project where you could "smoke" that money. That's not true. It's just not true. That is why I think it will be very difficult for you to apologize and convince us that this has not been the case with the extremely discriminatory criteria which have excluded the four regions. Here I ask perhaps Mr. Franz. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u213	Please, only Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u214	who used to speak so vehemently in favour of the Podrav region. [[...]] I ask him whether, on the basis of this call, any project in the Podravska region could be successful, for example, also an important project for the university that is being prepared in Maribor, hypothetically, if he were prepared to do so, for example, to meet the conditions at all. But I say no, even if I met all the formal conditions and the role was complete, every project in the Podrav region would be doomed to failure by regional criteria because it would not reach the minimum number of points and would not be considered at all. In the Podravska region, respected by Mr Frangež, the Minister assures you that you already have enough sport per capita and have already received sufficient national funding to co-finance sport infrastructure. That's from the Ministry's files. I didn't make that up. And that's why you have zero points practically at each of these criteria, and there's no way that you get half of what you need, that's 12 points to even go through this criteria. Once again, this discrimination is contrary to the principles of public procurement, which we impose on the 53rd Article of the Public Finance Act, which requires that in granting State aid, in allocating any co-financing for projects, those which issue a tender are obliged to respect the principles of the Public Procurement Act. These principles are: protection of competition, equality against law, transparency and non-discrimination. These are not the principles that Slovenia has invented. These are the principles of the European Union in the allocation of funds. And if you discriminate against five regions and throw them out, it's impossible for them to succeed, yes, what is more than discrimination?Oh, my God! And that's what we want to tell you, Your Honor. I know it's the deaf talking to the deaf today, I can see that. Of course, we also do not share the belief or hope that anyone on your side would be able to convince, despite the arguments, that you must politically defend your minister. I just don't want to say that interpolation isn't supported by evidence. The proof is that five regions with fantastic projects cannot succeed on this call, because by chance these projects are in these regions because they have already received enough money and because they already have enough sports per capita, according to the Ministry of Education. For the criteria, when we speak of the square metres of sports area per capita and of the allocations, are not based on any official statistics, but are only an assessment and information of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is not supported by anything but their documents. That is why we have a problem with the legality of this method of proposing this interpretation. Moreover, we have trouble that this case will not become a precedent for future calls when they want to finance favoured projects, businesses and so on. Recently, we have read in Finance that there was a reputable director of a parastatal company or company where the state indirectly has the largest share, a silent partner, a silent participant in a construction company that worked for this state firm or parastatal company. A silent companion, and no one knew that. I wonder, rhetorically, how many silent associates there are, say, in Grep, in Colossae and so on. How much? Perhaps you know the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Visjak misunderstood me. I did not claim that in Maribor we have enough of these surfaces to have, given the objective needs elsewhere, more. Maribor was always a sports town and for these needs, because he gave sport always high enough priority, he could take care of himself. That's what I'm talking about. This, of course, does not mean that we have no new plans, but that perhaps the needs elsewhere are objectively greater. That's what I'm talking about. And there's something else I'd like to say. We keep talking about how we don't hear each other. But you don't want to hear us either. Today, the Minister has made it very clear in the debate that it is not the rules on public procurement, but the rules on the implementation of the budget in this case. And that's what I'm going to say when you talk about Grep, quiet social, and so on. As far as I can see from this call, we financed the local community and not the company that is building the second part of these facilities within this public-private partnership. And you know, Stožice up or down, Maribor will always be the football capital of Slovenia, because it is a matter of heart and not walls.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u218	Because some who came a little later have problems with the legal basis of interpolation. Interpellation is evident to the Minister in violation of Article 53 of the Public Finance Act in conjunction with Article 7 of the Public Procurement Act. Why? As Article 53 of the Public Finance Act states that grants, loans and other forms of State aid should be awarded on the basis of a call for tender in accordance with the principles laid down by the Public Procurement Act. Article 7 of the Public Procurement Act states that the contracting authority must not restrict competition between tenderers in the procurement procedure, in particular not restricting potential tenderers to the choice and execution of proceedings contrary to that law, but must comply with the rules of protection or the prevention of restriction of competition in the execution of public procurement. It's a purely legal basis. You counted one more, budget execution. I agree with you. A lot of laws are here. But I've read you very clearly. I am also pleased that you estimate that Ljubljana needs investment or co-financing of sports infrastructure before Maribor and that you therefore give up and understand the behaviour of the minister who directed the money here to Ljubljana. In doing so, I know many of Maribor's ambitions by hosting the university.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today's debate does not touch those things that you would like to interpret. But let me start by saying that the state headquarters stadium is actually a good project, and also for public finances from this point of view. At the time of the contribution of approximately €10 million, of which €410 000 from the integrated budget, the country will receive back over 50 million through the Stożice project, either in the form of VAT or in the form of income from the people working there. This is a state contribution at the moment. In the absence of such a project, it is likely that there would be no such revenue, or that there would be no cost or revenue. But if we go to the basic starting point of the applicants that Minister Lukšič has arranged a public call to select an operation to co-finance investments in sportrecreational infrastructure and that this call corresponds only to one applicant. It's thesis or it's a statement that you're actually repeating all the time, and you want to impose it in some way, or you want to convince those who don't. Let's take a look at the comparative call from 2006; it's a comparison where we had a similar thing, we financed a football stadium, it was about a period like now, a pre-election period, there was another government. We are left with unused resources on one project, on one programme, Mr Vizjak will probably remember what programmes were in place at the time, and in fact European funds had to be spent and directed wisely. These were the funds that were earmarked, as I recall, for an investment in Dolenjska, Otoc, for a sports-recreational centre, but this was not done. And I remember because I am also in charge of one part of these things in Maribor, and we were happy to accept this offer. At the time, Dr. Gregor Pivec was proposed in Maribor for the mayor of SDS and Maribor was proposed with the mayor who was not of the SDS type and was with the project to rebuild and build the central football stadium. At the time, we had or was in the final process a building permit for this, projects, all of these things were. Solutions were sought, and in particular an appropriate financial scheme, which will also seek to start and complete the reconstruction and construction of the new stadium in due course by means of funds from the European Union. Perhaps at the time some of them also had in mind the help of the candidate to win the local elections. In this way, I can also understand the engagement of the mayoral candidate of the SDS. And there was a solution. The project of building a sports-tourist building on Otokec, I think that at the time was Krka – hospitality or as it was already called, failed. However, the possibility was shown that some of the funds would be diverted to another project that would meet the basic parameters and start an investment already in 2006, which was a condition for spending European funds, i.e. the electoral year, and ended, at least the first phase, in 2007/2008, again the electoral year. I will not repeat what the then ruling political option, which was in power in the country, predicted who will win the mayoral elections in Maribor. This was certainly not in support of current mayor Boris Sovic, but of the SDS candidate, which was Dr. Gregor Pivec. Pivec personally took the project, did not win the 2000 elections, perhaps for Maribor it would be better to, but unfortunately did not win, unfortunately also Mr. Sovič is not, but Maribor has a modern and useful football stadium, which is of course the most important. It has a quality sports facility where all sports or football events can take place at the highest level that we can organize here. And we were all very pleased with all the successes that the Slovenian football team has achieved right at this stadium under the conditions that it had, which are unfortunately nowhere else in Slovenia. At that time, no one questioned the way in which the tender was, by the way, like that of 2010, or even more focused on the same project. A call for proposals for co-financing of investments in sport and tourism infrastructure has been launched. Not only for sport-recreation infrastructure, but also for tourist, non-recreational, as the planned funds were intended to promote the business sector and competitiveness, in line with the 2004-2006 programming complement and the implementation of the structural measures of the first priority of the EDP 2004-2006. Therefore, the funds had to be distributed and started to be used already in 2006. I am extremely pleased that the stadium in Maribor has been realized and that there will also be a second phase, which is also partly co-financed by the European funds and the 2008 call for proposals. The Treaty was signed after the elections, and with the Treaty signed for realisation, we had great difficulties to harmonise it and that the current Minister has re-signed it on the basis of the 2008 call, that it is operational and that it is not contrary to the rules of the European Union in the use of European funds. We have a third stage left when the old part of the stadium needs to be restored, so the entire sports complex will be completely completed and have an integrated appearance over the coming years. Interpellators to Minister Luksic state that the call for the selection of operations for co-financing of investments in sportrecreational infrastructure has been modified to meet only one pre-specified applicant. Is that true? Let's compare both calls. The one in 2006 published by the Ministry of Education and Sport, with the signed minister, Dr. Milan Zvero, was all O. K., and the current invitation to tender signed by Dr Igor Lukšič, which according to the proposaler is entirely tuned to one project and is therefore the Minister of Interpellation. Let us see what are the differences that even the proposalr’s thesis could possibly confirm or reject. The title already contains a major change since the invitation to tender issued by the current Minister is intended for sports recreation infrastructure. The 2006 call, however, defined only sports and tourism infrastructure and already excluded all those who built only sports areas and were not associated with tourist organisations from the scope of the candidature. The call was intended only for those who will connect the investment in sports facilities to the tourist economy, so in Maribor we also invited the Pohorje Sports Centre, which is the manager of the winter sports infrastructure, to connect the football stadium and the entire complex into its sports and tourist offer. This was a condition in the invitation to tender for it to take place. Okay. The 2006 call automatically excluded all investments that would not be linked to any tourist organisation, as if the sports facility itself was not part of the tourist infrastructure in a place directly or at least indirectly. I read very well the tendering conditions of the 2006 tender and the 2010 tender. The basic conditions of the tender are almost identical with 2006. The value of the investment was seen as a condition for participation in the tender. In the 2006 tender, this was put at a value of at least a billion SIT 500 million, converted to EUR 6 million, although 4 million and several euros were available, which is, of course, more than that defined in the 2010 tender, when the lower limit was EUR 5 million, but it is true that the 2006 tender did not set the ceiling and the 2010 tender puts it at EUR 45 million. In the course of the financial design, both calls also provide for the possibility of the funds planned in the tender being included in this financial structure. Both tenders shall be made in the same manner. The panellists mainly criticise the criteria for the selection of applications and point out that these criteria have been adapted. You probably agree that the 2006 criteria were not adapted because they were set by your minister, and they are current. Let's look at the differences and what they mean to us. The criteria set out in the tender in 2006 have only 4 sets and have been published in the Official Journal only with values per set, not with sections within sub-assemblies where each notifier could see the value. The criteria published in 2010 have seven items of value in all sub-assemblies, which are now the most important conditions for meeting these criteria. Implementation, this is the part, the priority criterion, the regional criteria and the impact on horizontal policies, in both calls, is identical, with the difference that the 2010 criterion defines four regions A, B, C, D as the first 12 for the second 10, for the third 2 and for the fourth 1 point. In each case, at the end of the tender, a project which does not reach at least 50 % of the points in each criterion shall be excluded. So, identically, only A and B had the opportunity to get 20 or 10 or more points, A immediately automatically if it was listed, B with additional points, otherwise it was not possible. So, he was here, too, and it's logical that some exclusion criteria have been made. As far as the other points are concerned, this has also been done. Let me read only the part of the call that was made in 2006 at the end, "the investment that will reach the highest points will be chosen. The threshold for the number of points over which co-financing will be granted is 60 points, with the minimum number of points achieved under criteria 1, 2 and 3, in line with the objectives of the project quality measure and the reality of the implementation of 50 % of all possible points under each set of criteria. Where the assessment of any of the criteria, i.e. all four, the investment does not reach 50 % of the possible points, the application shall be rejected, irrespective of whether the total number of points reaches the co-financing threshold. It's identical, and so it's written. It's just that you need to know how to read. And only another minister was and the other option was in power at that point. Let us also compare the results of the tenders. In 2006, three applicants signed up for the invitation to tender, according to me known data, namely the Sports and Tourism Centre of the Human Garden in Maribor, the Municipality of Grad, where the application was rejected due to the failure to comply with the conditions of the invitation to tender regarding the provisional value, and ZPO Celje, because the application was not fully submitted. Four applicants applied for the 2010 call, namely the University of Maribor and the Gaj Strel Centre, whose application was rejected for failure to comply with the tender conditions, were also rejected by the role of the Public Institute for Sport of the Municipality of Koper for failure to meet the criteria of Section 2. Ljubljana met the terms of the tender and the funds will either be invested in a sports facility. And in my opinion, that's the right thing to do. It is right to build sports facilities, it is right to build them with the help of European funds, and it is right that, last but not least, they have their revenue from this point of view. Slovenia's contribution from the integral part of the budget is a million 400, I repeat, but the profit back is 50 to 60 million. And there will be more when the stadium works and from each ticket tax will go to the state treasury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Crossman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. "Since Slovenia does not yet have a sports hall and stadium," I am reading the material or response of Minister Lukšić to return to the original story and to understand together what it is really about, "which would be in line with the high European standards for the organisation of major international sports events, the project for the construction of such a sports event centre was put into the resolution of national development projects for the period 2007-2023 already under the mandate of the previous government. This is precisely why interviews were held between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before 2008 to secure EUR 40 million from the state budget. In 2008, the state budget already provided €10 million for the construction of the hall and stadium in the centre of Stožica. Unfortunately, the funds were not realized for the construction project of the hall and stadium in the centre of Stožica, because there was no appropriate legal basis, not documents for drawing funds". The story continues that "for the construction of the hall and stadium in Celje, the state from the state and European budgets has invested two million 344 and several euros by this year and 4 thousand 73 euros for the construction of the stadium in Maribor. Neither of the two stadiums provides as high European standards, wardrobes, VIP facilities and facilities for the media, security and services for visitors, for the performance of the team, for the organisation of sports, large international sports events such as the stadium at the Stožice. In 2008, the Municipality of Ljubljana ran with the Stožice project for a call for European funds. As policies on the balanced development of Slovenia favour the co-financing of projects from less developed municipalities, the Stožice project was not co-financed" and so on. Everything is well explained in the Minister's response. And the story is very clear and transparent, because these are documents. These aren't pre-election bluffs. And when you read that and figure out what it's all about, we could complete the interpolation in, say, an hour. Besides, the minister is very good at managing his department. I think it's even great. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you for finding out he's ours. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the Minister for everything he has done elsewhere in Slovenia, when some of you speak only the Stožice and the end of the story. That's not true. Many things have been done very well, as some colleagues have said. And you'd admit it if you didn't talk about interpolation today, but you shouldn't, because your big boss would be bothering you. I personally thank him that we have also received a new secondary technical centre in Cyprus, which is very large, very spoiled. The value of this facility is €15 million. And so we have invested in a school that will provide tools, technical staff and all the other profiles that we urgently need in this country. I would just like to tell you a story about the thesis that this interpretation is an abuse of Slovenian parliamentaryism for the pre-election purposes of the largest opposition party. Despite the fact that you are also playing a leading role in this film, the minister is only a foreigner. When the debate on the Bulmastifis is not discussed, the Minister for Agriculture shall be interpelled. When they make it impossible to discuss the mayor's alleged credits and even about them, they interpel the Minister of Education and Sport and so on. And one more thing, Mr Vice President, because you have allowed Mr Jerovsk to talk about the electoral campaign, you will also be half a minute away from me. You snuck Mr. Jankovic through the window, and he came through the big door back inside. You did him such a big favor today that I don't know what he gave you, but you really did him a huge commercial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Visjak has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u224	By the way, Mr. Crossman says he's coming from Copra. The Minister of Education, who had previously praised him, rejected the project of Koper City Football and Athletic Stadium only because the project is in the Coastal-Kraška region.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u226	The Central Technical Centre is also located in the Coastal-Kraška region, specifically in the Municipality of Koper, and as this project was led by the previous Minister for Education, it would never be completed. Minister Lukšič has made sure that young engineers, electrical technicians and so on can be educated there. This is not about distinction in regions at all, but it is about contradicting what we have heard in one of the debates that poverty is not always measured by the same vat. We can have poverty under the material conditions of an individual's life, but we can also have poverty from the point of view of an infrastructure: transport, cultural, school, health and sports infrastructure. In 2006, 2007 when we reported to the European Commission an operational programme for strengthening regional, development potentials for the period 2007-2013, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was then led by the former First Minister, wrote that the data on the low proportion of sport areas per capita was one of the key problems that did not allow this area to be integrated and the tourist offer to an appropriate extent. Therefore, the selection of criteria is entirely logical, justified and in line with the strategic documents in the area of European structural development funds drawn up by the previous government. When we look at this, we have very clear data that the specific objective of the national sport programme is to provide a half-square meter covered and three square metres of uncovered space per inhabitant in Slovenia by 2010. Here we cannot go to every municipality in particular, because European funds have limited minimum amounts to be used for these purposes, so the population of Pomurje is the most practiced areas, 5.6 square metres, in Podrav 3 square metres, in the coastal and karst region 2.99 square meters, and in the Central Slovene region only 1.6 smaller have Zasavje, 1.58, and Goriška region, 1.12 square meters. I have to say that it is the Southern Primorska and, in particular, we have three Istrian municipalities, I must say that we are not satisfied with the fact that we cannot claim to be very rich, but we have a super-average square of sports facilities per capita in Slovenia because we have been very active in sport for decades and decades. We knew that sports facilities were also important for the development of tourism, and we were investing in this. At the same time, we were able to draw a lot from the Republic and later from European funds. I would just like to say this when we listened to my colleague Bogdan Čepič, we do not need to repeat that the identical criteria were used by the predecessors of Minister Igor Lukšić, that at the same time SVLR confirmed the call that only the Human Garden was selected, even there was the one that confirmed, I will say, the institution, it is said that the control was carried out and "see, wonder strange" that year, and also later the European Union did not cancel or introduce any control procedure, because it appeared to be properly, legally and correctly carried out. How is it that now the procedure, which has been carried out in exactly the same way, is suddenly not correct? I really don't get it. And some criteria for the allocation of funds, see, from the twelve regions, five of them exceeded the criteria of square per capita. Why did the other seven regions not sign up for God’s will now? Because they didn't have ready-to-go projects. And that's why I think it's high time that you climb yourself, my dear bears, and consider that you made one very serious mistake in preparing this interpretation: you didn't go to watch what happened in 2006, 2007, 2008 twice. If we went to see this, then you'd probably have climbed right out of it and found out that it wasn't wise to do these interpretations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Well, before we came up with any content, some were very concerned about whether the interpretation was appropriate, or whether it was at all, or whether it was the vocabulary correct text. Some count how many times Ljubljana is mentioned. If we ever read any government text or explanation of any article, we might also wonder whether we all speak Slovenian or not. At the beginning of his implementation, the Minister said that we do not understand or know what an integral budget is and so on. Obviously, they do not know much about it either, or the Court of Auditors would not have written on one hundred and eighty-five pages what is wrong, issued a negative opinion on irregularities in any way possible, when dealing with money, found misrepresented revenue, expenditure. You obviously don't handle it as well as the Minister does. There's still a whole lot of irregularities that I'm not going to read too much. Among other things, if you did not set up a water fund, although we are setting up new agencies daily, this would be needed at this time, you will probably agree with me. And there's more to it. You're telling us we're against sports. Our parliamentary group often plays football games, so it is difficult to tell us that we are not athletes ourselves and that is why the stadium in Stožice was also included in the development national programmes during our government. It was also about money, and it was very bad not to use any other expression, is to tell us that we are against sport and that we are against the sports stadium in Ljubljana. Then you deleted it yourself because it was a different policy and then Mr Jankovic did not object too much when it was in the national programme. But now you're quoting us athletes and how we do everything against sport, despite the fact that funds have been increasing all the time in our government. The minister said he had two choices when all of a sudden he was left with money. One possibility was that he did what he did, a call, and the other to make a decision and confirm a certain operation, that is, a stadium. This would probably be too clear, given that we know that there is a lot of time or that he has tried many times and in various ways to settle this money, so it would probably be just too obvious for most people. You have praised the coalition's colleagues for how good they are and how well they are doing, efficient and so on. A colleague of Pečanova mentioned how well he completed the project in Koper. As far as I know, the project was really started during the time of Minister Beast, signed a contract with the SCT, and after one week of signing the contract, Mr Zidar came to sign an annex for six million and the Minister of the Beast did not agree to it. Mr. Zidar, you know that they affectionately call "Mr. Anex," because this is how he exercises his will. And that's when the investment broke down, and Mr. Zidar took his machines. But when the new minister came to an annex, all things came to an end and came to an end. The Minister has also explained to us that he will not explain things to us again every time, he will not answer. Well, then he didn't even have to answer, he could sit down, wait for this to pass, like a minister did before him. However, if he has arguments for what we say and can reject our claims, he is obliged to say so and it is right to say so. In the interpretation we also mentioned a letter sent to the mayors of the municipalities. And you say it's some other money, that it's money in the budget, and it has nothing to do with European money. The minister here said that already in February he knew that this money was gonna stay, and he was looking for ways to fairly divide it among the people, among the citizens. And when the Ministry sent this letter to the mayors of Slovenian municipalities that there were no funds, it would be very correct from the minister who wrote it. 6. 2010 to say that they are still planning an invitation to tender with European money within one month or less, after 15 days of this being sent, this money or this call was published. In fact, if you send someone, "Listen, there's no money, all the funds are allocated, only next year will there be money," you say, "stop working on these projects, clean up for six months because it doesn't make sense to deal with it." Correctly, it would be from the minister to say, "but in three weeks, there will be a bigger project, European money, and if you have projects prepared, prepare for this project." This would be proper cooperation with the congregations. My colleagues said why we believe that it was one of the conditions that were exclusionary, or if they determine that an area has sufficient sports facilities and therefore cannot be included or can be involved, but cannot get enough points, we tried to tell you why this does not seem right and why we consider this measure discriminatory. If we looked at all the other indicators, Ljubljana would fall out in this case. We can therefore argue that it is privileged and has been treated in a special way. The Minister has attached to us in his work how they evaluated and scored individual matters that came to the Ministry. And in Koper they had no reservations, in all the alumni it was written "yes", "yes", "yes", everything was fine. While there was one thing that needed to be completed at the City Hall, we know this, we will not explain what they had added, they were invited. Among other things, something else happened. After five days, a tendering condition has also changed, which is very important to take into account investments of between €5 million and €45 million without VAT. Then, after a few days, they turned it into 5 to 45 million with VAT. Apparently, there's some noise, how much it's going to cost in the end, and whether it's going to go through or not. That the Minister is very successful, or you can claim it, I must say that I have not seen anything else in the last six months but that he was regulating the money for the Staff: first, to take it from the budget reserve, he wrote to the Minister of Finance and so on, and then there went and he had to find another option. He said that we have to tell people that things are arranged in this country, that they work as they are right. If such an invitation is made that we think was discriminatory and that it is wrong that it has happened in such a way, and this is what we read – we do not read the sports park, we do not report to athletes that they will have another object, but we report to the minister the way it happened, that is to say, the allocation of money to only one chosen one – it is the responsibility of the minister and that is why we call him to account by interpellation. And even if he's pushing, not just him, but someone else, head in the sand, it doesn't help. And it will be difficult to convince us that things are arranged if Minister Žarnic had to admit for the last time that he issued a decision on the harmonisation of the MOL spatial plan under pressure, without documents, because it was the intention of Mayor Jankovic to counter the conclusion that Minister Golobič had agreed to a spatial plan and in five days he gave a conditional agreement on what needed to be changed, that it was also pressured on Minister Kresalovo, that for God's sake we should already write that we needed a park or expansion of the road base and I don't know anything else that didn't happen, because we probably couldn't afford another such thing in addition to the affair with the National Investigation Office. And there are a whole bunch of these things, so we can only ask ourselves who the Prime Minister is in this country, Mr Pahor or Mr Jankovic. Even if Mr Jankovic were Prime Minister, such things cannot and must not be done in this way. We don't have any problems with the stadium. We have said that our plans have also provided money in the National Development Plans programme, that a problematic way for us, which is not legal or excludes some, favours others, writes in the invitation to tender selective conditions that meet only someone, and by invitation and tender conditions excludes most of them from having enough in the field of sport. And if such an invitation to tender is made and the Secretary of State signs such an invitation to tender, he shall be responsible. That is why I will support the interpellation, not because of the Stožice, but because of the way in which Minister Lukšič chose him, because in this way he privileged someone and deprived everyone else or took the opportunity to obtain these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova, do you have a replica? Mrs. Pechanova has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. The signing of the SCT Annexes for the construction of the centre in Koper seems that Mrs Jeraeva knows more than the minister knows. The second thing I'd like to say is that, of course, you don't have a stadium problem is that this stadium isn't being built by your mayor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! However, I have decided to share some thoughts about today's point – I share interpretation with you, although I am not sure that everyone would like to hear it together, nor will I be too detailed because I have only the bad 30 minutes left, so I hope that I will try to explain the main things. First of all, something about the fundamental revelation of the interpellation candidates, and this is that the call was arranged, that certain conditions were further eliminated by certain regions and thus also by projects in these regions. We are now on a clear, respected colleagues and colleagues that criteria always exclude certain projects or even regions that do not fit them. There is no way that, say, the Municipality of Gorenje Vas-Poljane could report what I know or have investments in the railway network because there are no railways there. There is no way that, I don't know, she'd sign up for a landfill for medium and low radioactive waste if she wanted to, because the geological criteria have already eliminated her, no matter what the residents would have wanted or wouldn't have wanted. It is important whether the tenderer can reliably explain the criteria he has set. And I'm sure Minister Luksic did it. The means, to put it simply, were intended for those projects to be bigger projects, and in those regions that are below a certain average of these sports areas. And that's a credible explanation for me. If I give you the same analogy as a mag. The gendarmes a few hours ago would probably not have been surprised if the call for cleaners would have excluded those municipalities or places that already have a cleaning plant and were even financed from previous calls by state or European means. We wouldn't be surprised. And from this point of view, this is an entirely credible explanation given by Minister Luksic. And if there's something wrong with the calls, if there's something wrong with the project, with the mutual partnership, it's hard to say anything about it here, but if the Court of Auditors is working on this case, it will be able to tell what it agrees with and what it doesn't agree with and what it did if it was wrong and what it didn't. And that's not gonna be a magician. Visak, it won't be me and it won't be anyone else. That's the first thing. But it's either a subset of this debate or a overtone or, you could say, a context that guides this debate. And this context, of course, is that – and this bothers me – because through what the colleagues of the SDS Group have said above all others, anti-urban policy, the policy I have been alerting since 2006. Over and over again, all measures through local self-government, the law on the financing of municipalities, a whole range of other measures were explicitly or implicitly directed towards larger cities in Slovenia, not only against Ljubljana, even against Maribor, and perhaps another major city. I wonder why this anti-urban policy. The reason is very simple: especially because larger cities are more open, more tolerant, if you want, more liberal, independent, who leads them. And it's a disturbance to the political prism and the option they're defending and representing here. And that's why these cities have to pay something for this indemnity, which is happening politically, socially, culturally, tolerantly. This price is sometimes quite high. Not only in Ljubljana, but also in Maribor. Ask Križman what he went through to get the project, and what he was doing and what he was doing and what he was doing and what he was doing and what others were doing with him or against him, whatever the case, I'm not going to go into a situation where they're restoring this stadium to the stage they're at. If I tell you this experience, when we were at this famous match between Russia and Slovenia, at this stadium, the Russian motives wondered why the VIP stands were not heated and why they were not separated from the cold air and other audiences in the stadium. Since I've been going to football for many years and I've been going to this Olympics, I don't know what leagues, in small and large stadiums, I was completely surprised because I once sat comfortably in a chair, in a rather decadent, modest, non-bahatian stadium and so on. I don't know why all this is necessary. Why it's necessary for everything that's done to attack all the time, to keep looking for the negative side of things and things like that. I warn my esteemed opposition colleagues or SDS not to repeat too much of this, "we are for the stadium, we are not against sports". I believe, in my kind, he's not in here, you have one of the best footballers, not that and so on, at least on the mission team, all these things apply up and down, but I want to tell you this, don't say that you're for the stadium, if anything of this city authority, that I don't say Jankovic, does, and jump up and up. When Delta was a partnership, there was talk in the media that I wouldn't mention them, Democracy, Reporter, about Serbian partnership, and I don't know what and up and down and here and there. You're right, you don't mind the stadium, Jankovic bothers you, and that's a big mistake. Due to the fight with Jankovic, you sacrifice important but not too important acquisitions in this city and other places. You don't have to do this, and I think it's bad that you're doing this, and I'll tell you later why, too, it's bad. This Stožice issue, when I followed it, I must say that this idea of a public-private partnership was, in principle, I liked that the financial crisis had taken place, that Delta had withdrawn and I thought, when I read it, another building pit, yet one unfinished rubble would be waiting for generations and generations that would never happen. If ever, I have to, because I am from another political party, other options, I support another candidate for mayor, but I have to say this, if anything, then I have to give Jankovic here a debt of recognition that he has drawn this story through this new partner and brought it into a very unhappy, awkward, sometimes socially inappropriate way, if you want to, to the end. And that end will happen when all of this is paid and done when the craftsmen get paid. But I think it's very important that the stadium stands still. And it's cheaper, both for Ljubljana and for anyone else. This is exactly the kind of value that has to be given as a recognition, because the project was saved, and there was not another project left in the mud. It's very simple and important to say this. Your saying that the stadium was in the planning of development programs. Now I'm going to surprise you with my very radically different view. This is, if there was a stadium, a football stadium in a city that has a university where the university, which is among the 150 best in the world, is among the 30 best in Europe, if this is the Ljubljana development project, then this is almost an insult to it. The Ljubljana development projects are those related to the use of knowledge, intelligence and technology and all of these matters, which Ljubljana and the Central Slovenian region are underutilising from the potentials of these universities and almost 10,000 academics and researchers in this city. The stadium is an object that is needed, which fulfils the important function of a city of size and size, it is an experience and spectacular function, but frankly, here I will pour some with cold water, including great enthusiasts, all cities have problems with large objects of this kind, objects for professional spectacular sport. If I'm not mistaken, Santiago Bernabeu, the famous Real Stadium, this rich club had to sell it to Madrid to put the lease back into use and ownership and so on. A study by a regional researcher in America showed that large professional sports facilities are far less productive, far less developmental than all projects, public projects, libraries, schools, kindergartens and so on. They do, however, because the city needs to develop and develop this sporting and spectacular function, both Maribor and Ljubljana. Without that, you wouldn't fit into the map of some cities, some regions, some events and things. Without that, there's no story. It must therefore be said that it is right that the stadium is built, that it is good, that it has been built, and that it has not been interrupted in times of crisis, that it has been giving work and profit that it would not otherwise have been, and that there are still many things that will have to be saved in this stadium. I am his staunch advocate and I am glad to have him, although I do not think that the development project is for Ljubljana. I think that the development projects for Ljubljana are different, but that Ljubljana must also have this stadium, not only Ljubljana, Slovenia and the central Slovenian region. To all those who attack Jankovic, the current mayor, and also the candidate for the future mayor, I, as a political person on the second list who has another candidate, can't say anything but ask you not to do that, because you carry water in his blanket with a claw. You're carrying water in his blanket with a claw, whether you want it or not. If you'd agreed to the conspiracy theory, God knows what I could've done for you here. I believe there is no reason for him to support the interpretation of Minister Lukšić himself. Of course, I also believe that there is no reason for us to talk about a stadium all day in the National Assembly in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Earlier, one SD member began so beautifully when he said "and it was revealed that," roughly, "the Minister of the Interior was responsible for misleading the public about the Bulmastifs, and you just went into interpolation." Well, I can comfort him, now that the same minister is looking at us from posters that say he's listening to us all, and this is the Minister of the Interior, who has the police and the wiretap machine and so on, the proper service, we're not going to go into the interview. But we laughed all the way to tears. Now let's get a little more serious, because I have a feeling that you've missed the point a little bit. You're talking about the facility, it's nice that this facility is standing there, you're talking about a mayor who doesn't even have the point of mentioning it, except that it's obvious that between the government and this mayor that a huge rotten compromise was made -- and now we're getting to the point -- at the expense of taxpayers, because today we're talking about money. And what this is really about, but it is a little different to show the logic of the money that comes from the European Union, as some of you have operated on it. It's like it's money falling out of the sky, mana out of the sky, and it has nothing to do with us at all, it's a net influx. Approximately this is how some of the calculations have already been made, what this plus will mean for the Slovenian budget. Yes, of course, if that were true! Does Slovenia not pay the European Union? Good morning! And what really is the money that comes from the European Union? We can also take it roughly as follows: the money covered by Slovenian taxpayers sent to the European Union is then returned and must be distributed through Slovenian government institutions in accordance with the standards and rules applicable in the European Union. It's just this curve that's real. But it's still the original money we paid there by Slovenian taxpayers. When it comes to this facility, it must be understood that this is paid from the money of Slovenian taxpayers distributed through the Ministry of Education, of course, in accordance with the rules of the European Union. Then it sounds a little different. Ampa has something else to understand. The worst possible scenario for each country happens, however, if the European Union exercises control, this is the worst scenario for taxpayers, so let's just listen to it. If it turns out in control that the project for which the European Union has committed money is not fully implemented or does not work, it does not operate as it was presented in the documents sent to the European Union, then the European Union is demanding this money back. And what does this mean in terms of taxpayers? Let's play again: first the country reached out to the taxpayers' pocket, gave it to the European Union, then went back over the curve, placed it in an object, and then, because it did not operate as it predicted, the same country will reach again into the pockets of taxpayers and pay the same amount to the European Union, and this net, and this money will not come back. That's really how it works. That is why the European Union is extremely strict when exercising control over its projects, because such money is the perfect net inflow of the European Union. And don't think this isn't happening. Our neighbour Italy is only because some of the projects have not been implemented by doing business, as announced in previous documents in the European Union, has returned several billion euros. And what does that mean for one object, say, the Stoice Stadium? This means that in any case it was paid out of the money of Slovenian taxpayers, even if it is the money of the European Union, because the one captured by Slovenia gave it to the European Union and returned over the turn over the Slovenian government. However, if this money has to be returned, it will be more expensive once again, because once again Slovenia will capture the money of its taxpayers, it will give it to the European Union and it will no longer return. Therefore, from the perspective of Slovenian taxpayers, such an object would be twice as expensive as if the Slovenian government had so much courage and directly financed it from the budget, because then at least once more money would not have to be sent back to the European Union. And we're way ahead of that question. For the invitation was mildly doubtful. Some of you mixed apples and pears. You were talking about elimination procedures that prevented certain projects from competing or succeeding in the individual tender. This is certainly the case, but in a given case some statistical regions have been eliminated in advance. We could offer the best sport project, and my Gorenjska is one, and we could not even get into the game for this call because the call has already been made in advance. And it is already mildly doubtful from the point of view of the European Union. And the European Union, believe me, will sooner or later take this under close scrutiny. When the project is completed, it is reliable. Even more interesting is the question of how this project operates, whether this project is even capable of doing what was once presented to the European Union. After what we have seen so far, the answer is one: not by chance and never. And in this case, ladies and gentlemen, this project will be twice as expensive for Slovenian taxpayers as it would have been directly financed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is what we are really talking about today, and it is only perhaps that not everyone in this Chamber has really understood or they do not want to understand, because the question in Slovenia is often just to understand what it is really about. Some of you even pointed your finger back at it. Yes, because there were some individual mistakes, I believe they were. Some of it made us all angry. Errors always happen, but these mistakes were not as fatal as they were in a given case. Moreover, something, if previously wrong, does not justify mistakes now, especially because it is an extremely large amount of taxpayer money, for tens of millions of euros. Logic, if you just put your finger back and apologize for your current mistakes, is exactly the same logic as if someone said, "Yes, you know, but I saw one yesterday who went over there by the walkway across the road, and now I can run over one bus of the kids." You can't, you can't, you don't have that right! That's the wrong logic, ladies and gentlemen. If mistakes have occurred before, this does not excuse you in any way, but in particular the matter will be in your eyes because these errors, which have occurred here, are of a completely different rank, and can in particular have extremely serious material consequences for the Slovenian budget and especially for Slovenian taxpayers. In the end, the country can reach out to anyone, even a baby, and pull 25 euros out and throw them out of the window. The EUR 25 has already gone to the European Union, has returned and has been spent on this facility, together with €50, with babies. That's how it really works. And when we talk about the money of the European Union, please let us at least talk in a way that we all understand that this is our money, because we are part of this European Union, because we are also funding it. We're almost there, and we're just gonna be net payers. Should I explain what this means in practice?Oh, my God! And it's a question of responsibility to taxpayers, which is in nothing to save what you said: "Yes, we had wonderful purposes, the object must be, the sport must be." Of course, I agree with all this. It's great to do something. It is only, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary to look at whether someone pays for it, under what circumstances it is done and in what way, in particular, it is in full compliance with the rules. In this case, the matter is so much worse because it is also directly subject to the supervision of the institutions of the European Union, which, for the reason that I mentioned at the outset, are even more interested in finding a minor irregularity so that they can demand this money back. For, once again, this is a net outflow from the country and a net inflow to the European Union and does not come back. As a result, the responsibility of all those using European funds, and in particular those who share and exercise control over the allocation of these funds, is so great that it can cause net damage to the State in the amount of all the funds it has at its disposal and, by the way, with interest. And you've actually forgotten that some people want to do that today or out of ignorance. And that's why this thing is extremely serious. As a result, the responsibilities of those who directly decided and participated in this process cannot be excluded in any way in advance. And the logic that was developed here is, unfortunately, but I sincerely regret it, I will also say why, the logic that I can read from one newspaper: "The logic that Luksic used here is the logic of the prison chaplain from the Kafk process, who says we must not have everything for real, we must consider it necessary." I didn't make that up. This is what she wrote to Mr Lukšić once the Memorial of Hribar, the left icon: Stop the right hand, because you all know her well. Some of you will probably now jump into the air and say that this was when Mr. Luksic said that the Tigers were terrorists. That is true, but this same logic, ladies and gentlemen, was presented here today not only by the Minister, but unfortunately by all those who have defended this act in the coalition. Because you don't want to see these facts. It's not a problem. It's not a problem in the facility. Let us hope that he will serve his purpose well. The problem is money and liability to taxpayers. It's a responsibility, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u236	Honorable Vice President, Minister, Collaborators, Collaborators! I will not support the decision to interpret against Minister Igor Lukšić. But today, for a long time, I have gladly listened to Minister Igor Lukšić's argument with arguments, i.e. with the right arguments and with my reasons, to prove that the interpretation of the web of floods, instigations and non-truths. Since the answer was also given in writing, I admit that I have received many more answers in oral form. I agree with the assessment of all those who say that the interpretation is made up as it is, I will not use this term that my predecessors used. However, I really agree that the interpolation composers are not God knows how to know these tasks, especially at the expense of the fact that there are so many fluctuations within these arguments, mention is made of the intersection, the unpaid workers, as well as the homeless, the patriarchs, all the way to the wrong conditions. But unfortunately, the project was carried out, and it was transparent. Given the great debate, I will only allow myself a little emphasis on the resolution on national development projects 2007-2023 adopted by the Government 12. Ten. 2006. It stated by SVR that the Leon Štuklja sport and business park will be built on the basis of a public-private partnership, so private capital will certainly be interested in joining European and national and local financial resources. This happened in 2010. I am sorry that the proposaler, who has much to say, did not give a relatively exact response to the presentations by his colleague Čepič. Now I can show you just a few arguments and I'll start with the beginning and finish. There's been a lot of talk about this Stožica Sports Park. The journey was long: 42 years. It started in 1968. Marko Schleimer, Republic Secretary for Urbanism, made plans for the new Stožice Stadium. All the years until 2010. On 10 August, the first game was held in the hall, and the next day at the stadium in Stožice, with temporary permission. That's the conclusion. 42 years. In the end, I would like to say that for me this complex of Stožice needs to be defined as a Slovenian stadium in Ljubljana, which is not a monument to Jankovic, but to Slovenian sport in general. As much as the argument to Mr Gantar, who also spoke about these matters. It is true that I, too, have come to understand from the debate that the name Jankovic has been mentioned so many times that I almost hope to believe that he is already a member of the SDS and that this is an excellent pre-election propaganda for him. Today there has also been a major, unfair, unfair attack by the proponent of this interpretation on his colleague Rože. Comrade Rožej said as follows: "It is clear from all the documents that during your ministry, a respected Mr. Proposer, you have taken money from the water fund to your area and that for a few years the whole of Slovenia remained at the expense of this without cleaning, maintaining all water channels and storms and that much of this present damage has also occurred at the expense of this manoeuvre." I confirm what my colleague Rosjej said, because we have talked a lot about this on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Of course, there are documents about everything. Thus, it must already be said that this segment, which is very up to date today, also bears a considerable responsibility for the proposaler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u238	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! I think it is not wrong to repeat once again that after today's debate I can find out once again one sad truth, that most of the debaters in this interpretation spoke today as if the interpolated stadium in Stožice and not Minister Lukšič. Let me stress once again what I said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group this morning that most of us are likely to be, I can say, all of us, the whole policy agrees that the project, which is called the sports park in the capital, is a project that is worth funding both by European and state budget funds. But in this case, we didn't talk about it. We didn't talk about it, some of you missed it, you told us we were going to a campaign against the current mayor, Zoran Jankovic, and you put something in our mouth that we weren't talking about here today. We didn't talk. Today, however, we have repeatedly repeated statements that justify reasonable suspicion that in this case it was a fictitious call for formalisation of the pre-agreed political decisions at the level of the high government representatives and the Ljubljana mayor for these 9.4 million Euros of the said funds. This is what we talked about, and we expected Minister Luksic to cast aside this well-founded suspicion. They're gone. More. He took advantage of deception, spoke the facts and treated us in a way that we do not know how and how the European cohesion policy funds are used. He was talking about if we didn't spend this money this year, he would have come out - what we know isn't true, he was talking about the fact that it wasn't possible to sell funds for all the other municipalities, which is why this letter was sent to all the municipalities on 9 June, that there would be no call this year, because there were no funds, and six days later he found that the funds were - 9.4 million euros - and he started a fictitious tender procedure, that's what happened 15. 6. 2010 for this specific project for which funds have been agreed in advance. We also explained why and what this suspicion is based on. It was based on the fact that the procedure started one day in April when the current Ljubljana mayor publicly announced that he expected the country to co-finance the project in the Cologne. Then came the call of Minister Luksic in the Government to provide EUR 20 million. This request was rejected. He then followed a letter of 23 April 2010 to the Minister of Finance, in which Minister Luksic expresses his expectation that the Minister of Finance from the budget reserve used for natural disasters will be used for those we now witness to, and it is only right that he is being used for such purposes, and thank God that the money affected in Ljubljana from this quota will be paid so that it cannot be redistributed. However, the budget reserve had around €27 million in resources. And when this did not happen, when this journey was not successful, when the other routes were not successful, when a great deal of dissatisfaction arose in the public about the manner of this procedure and about the fact that it was some payment of some prior services, of course, Minister Lukšič deliberately and knowingly decided to go into a fictitious tender procedure - to cover the whole story from the entire Slovenian public. And this is what we proposed to the Minister's interpretation. In this case, it is not the case as mentioned by colleague Gantar, the cleaning plant, that we sign the cleaning plants and say that those who have already received European funds cannot compete and are not justified. It's not a case like this. Here, in this case, there were four applicants, two of whom broke into a selection, and, of course, because of the regional criterion, which was prescribed in such a way that all those who might have made it to the conclusion, other than Ljubljana, were eliminated. As a result, this project could not be co-financed and, therefore, this call was not only discriminatory, it was deliberately written in such a way as to prevent all other tenderers from being treated with high-quality projects, which was clearly the case, but also any other, to meet the conditions for equal scoring, to run on this call and, if so, to grant funding. That's the obvious one that wasn't thrown away today. We then noted that, on the basis of the application submitted by the Municipality of Ljubljana, this role should be rejected - if not at the time, and later, when it was found that incorrect information was provided in the application, the fact was that these 18,000 euros were leased for distorted data. In such cases, in the case of other congregations, no one is invited, a decision is simply made not to sign, the selection is annulled and the matter is closed. In this case, at the press conference, Minister Lukšič and Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana explained nicely how all O.K., czes, because they did not rent the whole stadium, only rented locker rooms and halls for 950 euros. So, next time, they're only going to rent pot for 100 euros, and they're not going to rent areas under it – or what?Oh, my God! In the case of this project, the public-private partnership was based on an act adopted by the City Council of Ljubljana in autumn 2007. Article 3 of this Act explicitly and unequivocally states that the private partner shall bear all the costs of the construction of these facilities, both the stadium and the accompanying facilities. That's what this act says. It is true that things have changed, but not in such a way that the Minister should enforce the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, and in such a way, I would say, a humble way to show those who are in a certain state of power, perhaps everything and allowed everything. How is it possible for someone in this country to pass the established rules of procedure to close the entire Ljubljana freight transport undertaking? That's possible in this country! How is it possible that someone in this country can ride with a sticker and be untouchable to the police? That was possible in this country for a long time. No one was responsible for anything. And as long as these things happen on a lower level, that's one story. But when they move to the level of ministries and governments, and when these things and these works are supported by the Prime Minister, then this is a completely different story, not only worth the interpretation, but it is worth it, as some of you have discussed in this Chamber today, a thorough consideration of how painful this tissue of Slovenian society is and how sick this policy is, which is currently our government. And it's no wonder that people's trust in her is on such a low level. I think mistrust is so great because the ones you're most responsible for are being misled before the facts on the table. Instead of admitting, "we wanted to approve these funds because we somehow wanted to formally close this story, and this fictitious invitation was issued". I think this would be less wrong than insisting that this matter has been done properly. When we are talking about the formal reasons why this role should be rejected, I cannot go past, once again, this building right and this statement, which has been submitted and which has been covered by the Minister's adviser or expert associate with some opinion, that the statement that the property is clean, even if there is a building right on it, and even if ten mortgages have been entered, that it is ok. I've told you what that means before. I'll do it again, for those who weren't in the hall at the time. Imagine that this is a land in Stožice, which is owned by the Municipality of Ljubljana. In accordance with the Public-Private Partnership Act, this Municipality of Ljubljana granted to a private investor on this land a building right, whereby this private investor undertook to build a stadium at the expense of its design, control, engineering, construction permits and everything else. And now we have these facilities. And the ministry experts say that this building right is some minor disturbance that does not affect that the land is clean. But it's got mortgages on it. Now, according to the latest data, it is likely that EUR 115 million has been granted by Slovenian banks to this mega-Romanian loan project. Foreign banks did not approve these loans because this project "does not drink water". But there'll be another talk about it. We have said that today it is not intended to challenge the rationality and efficiency of this project, but, above all, the inadequate conduct of Minister Lukšić, which should lead to his resignation in a regulated country, in a poorly regulated country, should be required by the Prime Minister to resolve it, and in Slovenia, two parliamentary groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party, should put an interpellation into a well-known outcome. We had interpellations when we proved that the ministers had both hands in full sacks, and the Prime Minister covered them. And so it will also be evident today, which, of course, is bad for Slovenia and for the whole policy. A few more words about these 9.4 million euros. Look, this 9.4 million wouldn't jeopardize this project. That's not the point. This project was initially set at around €150 million, which is now doubling at the conclusion of the project. Of this, this public part has been dimensionalized to some 80 million, now we hear that 140 million will be here. 140 million euros! Of these additional 60 will have to be provided by Ljubljana and Ljubljana, because this is their money from the budget, almost €40 million. Thus, these 9.4 million euro in the project itself has no significant weight, is not essential and does not play an essential role, is less than 10% of the funds and would not endanger the project itself. It is important to ask whether it could also be provided through state and European funds to make more rational use of this money for a better purpose. I used to talk about Plečnik's stadium behind Bežigrad, and I was talking about the fact that on the one hand there is shame for the city and for this country, what has been happening to this stadium for so many years. And it would probably be more cost-effective and more rational for those who decided to do so to stop and make a decision in time to ensure that this cultural pearl is rebuilt, not only in Ljubljana, in Slovenia or, if you want, in Europe, an appropriate stadium would be provided to meet all the needs and would be saved by a decaying cultural heritage. However, if ambitions were greater, and if someone thought he was capable of more, then I think he should provide the missing funds through a different management of public property, i.e. urban property. The opportunity for that has been as much as you want in this last term alone. If only those lands that had been converted from agricultural to buildings only in this mandate had been subject to a preliminary right, which could have been legally possible, and that price difference would have landed in the city budget rather than in private pockets, that 60 million margin would have been ensured in this project. And there would be no problem, and everyone would be pleased. But I apologize for going back to the substantive story that is not the subject of today's debate, and I am returning to the findings that we have cited in the interpretation and that I must say that the Minister, with one argument and with one word, has not convinced that these observations do not hold, that it was not a fictitious call and that he was not convinced that he was the screenwriter of this event and that he was acting in the background in the interest and that the decisions were previously agreed before they were formally confirmed by those who were on this call. The President of the Calling Commission was a long-standing member of the Social Democrats, I think he ran for president or vice-president of the party in 2005, and the mentor in his graduation work was Minister Igor Luksic, so even after this salary the case is quite unhygienic. At the very least, I would expect the Minister to avoid such temptations and to form a commission that would not raise doubts about its impartiality. He did not do so, and for this reason he also bears full responsibility for his actions. We have limited ourselves to this instance in interpolation because it is most absorbing in the sky, but there have been many other decisions after the interpolation, on which Minister Lukšič could be interpelled. I personally have to say that you'd agree to the Minister's interpretation because he's not carrying out the orders he's sworn to. It is unworthy that, last year, almost 3,000 children in our country remain outside the kindergarten door, something similar has happened this year, it is unworthy that the municipalities themselves are left to solve these problems, it is unworthy that, at the same time as this happens, at the Ministry of Education in the face of such crises in November and December of last year, 3 million euros will be thrown through the window for some equipment that schools did not need or request for it. It was for some cameras and laptops, which were obtained only because the budget line had been exhausted, thus taking advantage of the appropriate position for this year, when the drought in the state budget was so much larger. These are all the questions the Minister should be answering. And one of the most important decisions has been taken without any arguments, without any analysis, without an assessment of what this will bring to the Slovenian economy, especially to those in the tourist work, the parents, the children, not least the carriers, but also the safety on the ski slopes and on the roads. It's this merger. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u239	Mr. Blackach, don't mind me. You know it's not the content of the interpolation. Return to the content of the interpretation relating to the invitation to tender, but not to the other issues of the Ministry's work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you very much, President, for I did not intend to continue to distribute the matter, I have only expanded the matter in this sense. I wanted to show that, even through these activities carried out by Minister Luksic, he showed some kind of government attitude, some arrogant attitude, he was holding a minister who was in the service of the people. I also think that this makes it difficult for him to expect us to hear any argument on the impressions that we have cited in the interpretation. Finally, I would like to read some of the things he said about the answers. He went to the points of interpretation and wrote at each of these points: not explaining the reason, but repeating the content of point 3, the Minister is not mentioned; see the comment below the number so much; the following point does not explain the reason, but repeats the contents and so on. The copy-passe method, while the contents in these points were completely different, is also one reflection of how the Minister perceives his responsibility to the public before this Parliament and to those chosen in this position. By reaffirming today's mandate, of course, you will also assume part of your responsibility and thus the overall ruling policy. We're not doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. The Minister answered all the questions correctly and I am sure that he will hold out until the end of his term of office and run the finish line. Mr Jankovic works, he built the stadium and this stadium is a great pleasure not only to the Ljubljanaians, but to all Slovenes and Slovenes. I want there to be a lot of victory and success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, thinking about this, or the way the interpretation is, can each have its own, but I would like to say that Minister Luksic has refused to face up to Mr Viszak on the topic of interpretation. This probably tells us a lot about whether an interpolation is appropriate and quality or not. And if the minister responsible for whom the interpretation is filed on the basis of the arguments recorded in the interpolation does not want to face it, he does not hope to face the interpolation carrier, then he probably does not have any quality arguments for his defence. In fact, what we heard in the Minister's defense by the coalition says the same thing. There were very few discussions between the coalition Members on the interpretation, the content of the interpretation. You were all talking about Jankovic and the stadium, about the games, and I don't know who, Caras and anyone else. It has to be found that these things don't hold. Mr Minister has very serious defence issues in defense of interpretation. It's two plus two four, that's right, Mr. Secretary, in the 10th system. In the systems where you operate, two plus two is not four. And later I'll tell you why it's not. I'd like to say a few other things first. You've all been telling your colleagues that interpellation is a pre-election topic. It was filed on July 29th, which is long before the elections. Since you are so expedient because you have the power in the National Assembly, this interpretation could long have been reclassified to the agenda of the National Assembly. Well, you didn't. And the obvious fact that this has been dealt with in the pre-election period is particularly good for you, because you did not try to get this topic out of the agenda before the elections. You had all the options, business, content, the answer was prepared in time, it could have been earlier, but it was difficult to prepare an answer, so this answer was not prepared before. The Minister's and you're saying that this interpolation is poorly prepared, with many substantive errors, it may be true. I am responsible for the editing of such things myself, and I can take this note in some parts. However, I would like to remind you that Mr Minister has also proposed a law on financing, amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. He's been put in for one. Seven. 2009 If you look at the quality of this law, 70% of the articles have been amended in the treatment of the working body. If I were to take into account or count those where it says that "in" is deleted and write "the two" because there are two more such articles, then it would be 90% of these articles. A number of amendments have been tabled on such a complementary proposal. As regards the quality of the materials, the quality of the acts decided in the National Assembly, Mr Minister, first look at your materials. If you can't, if you don't have them, we'll copy them to you, and with all the versions, we'll deliver them to the Ministry at all stages of the procedure, so you can see your work. If I only recall my colleagues from the coalition, we have already discussed the mining law at this meeting, which has brought about a legal void due to the coalition's velocities. We've been correcting the retroactivity of inspection and so on. Look, colleagues, how you're making laws, and you're a coalition, you're a government, you have scissors and canvas in this house, and you can't make a product that would drink water. And then, by emergency procedure, we change what you "shut up" one or two sessions before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u245	Mr. Tanko, let's stick to the interpolation. I know you want to show what's wrong with this National Assembly, just you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u246	Mr. Chairman. Let me get this straight. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u247	Do not talk about the laws adopted by this National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u248	Allow me to argue that I am only now in the turn of what your colleagues said three, four, five hours ago. And so is your minister. It's my turn now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u249	Mr. Tanko, but no one talked about other laws. You can list by this logic all the laws we've adopted. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u250	Mr. Potts. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u251	Just give me three words, not all of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u252	Mr. Potts, you obviously weren't present all along. Maybe you've overheard something. Let us draw attention to what has been opened in this house in the debate at this point. One lady from your delegation said it was now a full moon. Yes, it is. This full moon of sacred yellow, you can go look here you have talked about that we the promoters of interpretation abused the parliamentary procedure. [[..]] When we read it to the President of the National Assembly, we proposed his release. And if the President of the National Assembly has allowed any parliamentary group to abuse the parliamentary procedure, what has been read here by your Members and by the Minister, then I suggest you initiate the discharge procedure of the President of the National Assembly. However, if our request for interpretation was made in accordance with the rules of this House, it would be appropriate for those who held the meeting to warn both the debaters and the minister that the rules in the National Assembly should be observed and to discuss this in the manner prescribed in the National Assembly. Regardless of the fact that the Minister has all the coalition support behind him, such debates are likely to be afforded even if he thinks he is a regular professor and wants to do it in such an appropriate teaching manner. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] President, please ensure peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u253	I ask you all to listen carefully to Mr. Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you for your kindness. When we talk about the paradigms that this coalition has put in place and which this coalition is supposed to implement, you said that in the field of quality of work you will establish a new order, some new paradigms, some new rules that will be better than the previous ones. However, in this country, the Minister has not yet written a letter to the mayors, to the municipalities and told them that there is no money for calls for sports projects and issued a call in three weeks. This has never happened in this country. And I wonder how such a minister can lead the educational process when he does. What kind of credibility does he give to the management of his department? Here he boasted that he had a lot to do for education, for education, I don't know everything, we can look at the magnetogram, what he said. I'd like to comment on that. Is it educational, Mr. Minister, it's educational, it's organized, it's abuse, it's a lie, it's paradigm? I'd like to comment on that. On the same occasion, the President of the Government said that this project would not be subject to the euro of public funds. I ask you, the share of the Republic budget, the state budget to go, and the part of the European budget, whether it is public or private. A million 400 from our budget, is that public money or is that private money? And those about 8 million euros from the European budget, is that public or private money? The paradigm of the Prime Minister. He said the euro would not go from public funds. Now we're talking nine and a half million. Is this a relevant question for someone who runs a education and education centre, education, culture, sport? Is that an ethical act? Is it misleading for those who could rightly run for these European funds? The Minister controls the department if, three weeks earlier, he wrote publicly to all the mayors that there was no money, and then he makes a call? Is this the control of the station, or is this manipulation in this department? Here we also heard a number of statements, some of whom quoted statements from important Slovenian people working in the field of sport. Interestingly, no one has read and said Samir Handanovic's statement here. Interesting, from coalitions [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Not Samir Handanovic. Interesting. And that tells us a lot about the way in which those who want to cover this project have dealt with these matters. There's been a tremendous amount of evidence that we don't support sports projects. When we were preparing budgets for 2008 and 2009, we entered 46 million euros into these budgets for the Leon Štuklja project, Leon Štuklja Stadium Sports Park in Ljubljana. Can the director of the sports budget tell me, that is, Mr Minister, what happened in March 2009 that all these items in this rebalancing were deleted for this project?Oh, my God! What has happened in this area that, out of all these NRPs 2009, 2010, and so on, the item Leon Stuklja Stadium in Ljubljana has been deleted? The proposer and the manager of this part of the budget shall be the Minister for Education and Sport. If this project needed public funds and obviously needed them, and was also envisaged, then I wonder on the basis of what assumption, on the basis of which decisions, which documents have been deleted, to propose that these funds be deleted in the budget balance? Based on what? This was one of the conditions for you to carry out the procedure you carried out. So this project can be co-financed in the way you did it if it's in the NRPs. Apparently it's not in the NRPs. After March 2009, this is no longer in the NRP. And it would be interesting to know what the reasons were for this project from the budget during the Pahorje government, during the time of Minister Luksic from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and from the development programme plan. To this day, we have not heard these reasons. This may have happened because the Public-Private Partnership Act between the Municipality of Ljubljana and the private partner provided for a different financial scheme and construction. Maybe. I imagine that this was the basis for this to happen solely because the Public-Private Partnership Act provided for a different financial design of the project and eliminated and did not demonstrate the need for budgetary resources of the Republic of Slovenia. I imagine this is because, in the budgetary debate we had in the National Assembly, no one explained it, nor did the Minister of Education, nor did the Minister of Finance. But after Mayor Jankovic did not protest, interestingly, also the Ljubljana Municipality, which now speaks so much about the fact that the country also has to contribute to the development of Ljubljana and Ljubljana's Stožica National Project, the Stožica National Project, did not protest the removal from the 2009 budget rebalancing of these 46 million euros. Not even a word. Has anyone seen anything? But now that there are some reasons for need, there are suddenly conditions for drawing up public funds in a way that is not provided for in the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement Act, there is no basis. And that's what we're talking about. In 2009, when we adopted the balance of the budget, respected colleagues, the President of the Government here spoke about the fact that he is aware that there is a crisis in the country. If I recall correctly, then Umar came with new macroeconomic data and should have withdrawn this budget balance by then. Well, you didn't. This can be confirmed by the Minister of Finance, that's for sure. This is said to have already been known that the crisis is that economic growth is halting to have a private initiative. And that's what happened. However, this project was carried forward at an undiminished pace and had no public coverage in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, since the Government deleted it, the coalition confirmed it, and had no financial structure with the private partner, although the Public-Private Partnership Act speaks differently from the private partner. And now we're wondering why this didn't work out with the rebalancing of the budget, which was later done. Why didn't this happen with the budget rebalancing this year? Now it's nine months, every time it's ten months, why hasn't this been settled with these items? We, which we have foreseen in the 2009 budget in 2008 and some year earlier, would certainly not oppose this approach because we understand what the problem is. However, the way you have chosen it does not have a legal basis, Mr Minister. It does not comply with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's what we're talking about. All that has occurred in the debates at this time is a deformation of what we have found, what colleagues Vizjak and Chernač have presented - a deviation from this, that means manipulation, misleading the public. We are talking only about that you have done everything that in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia there are no funds for the sports stadium of Stožice, for the stadium of Leon Škukl, that at that time the private sector that entered this project collapsed. And Vlada, Municipal Municipality and Mayor Jankovic have failed to ensure that this matter is properly entered into the budget acts of the Republic of Slovenia, and there have been four or five opportunities in the National Assembly since this financial structure collapsed. Four or five opportunities because we accepted the rebalans in 2009 and we accepted the rebalancing this year. And that's not how it works. The fact that this project is not good shows some other behavior. Comrade Gantar, president of the National Assembly, has responded extremely strongly to the amendment of the Light Pollution Regulation. It's extremely sharp! He threatened with a public letter or even with a question from the Member States. I would like to know if, ever since he published this protest on his website, in fact, he has done something publicly in this area. He probably didn't ask any questions. He did not ask Minister Žarnic in the National Assembly, at least not publicly. He didn't ask for any extraordinary session, he didn't write it. It is said that then, in some way, some silent political consensus was given also to all the further steps and actions that have taken place in this area. Has anyone in the coalition done anything because of the order of the Chief Republican Transport Inspector? No one, either. This is said to have been also likely to be an abuse of legal regulations, legal bases in this particular case. This is said to be difficult to expect at this time to support interpolation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u255	Mr. Tanko, you may notice that I tolerate that you are going significantly beyond the question, through the content of the interpretation. Try to return because all the questions you are asking are not the responsibility of the Minister for Education and Sports, which you are interpolating. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u256	Mr President, I understand, because I've listed some other things that went smoothly through the coalition, peacefully past the coalition. Even the inspectors actively participated, even the Prime Minister of the Government boasted that he had been very actively involved in the resolution of the matter; he said this earlier. It is clear to us that, on the basis of this, no minimum support is expected to change anything in this area. In order for the coalition to consider whether the conduct of both one minister and another minister and Mr Luksic was such that they constituted infringements of the law. I know they've violated this, but the coalition is extremely servile to these things, and it doesn't in any way acknowledge these things. It's even worse. For a long time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia received twice the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors. Is that right? Probably, Minister, that's what he's holding. This opinion of the Court of Auditors states that the Ministry of Finance, in agreement with or with the knowledge of the Bank of Slovenia, has incorrectly serviced or maintained an appropriate relationship in commercial banks, with the long-term binding of funds [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u257	Mr Tanko, in my opinion, your Group of Members has already proposed a debate at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and I think we will discuss this. The contents of the interpolation are not. Be so kind as to stay with the content that is sufficient and can be explained. Don't pull other things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u258	Mr. Potts, I would suggest you wait until I say all my thoughts. The President of the Government here said that he had taken all the steps, even more than Minister Luksic, to provide this project or cover for the project. I must remind you that the Slovenian commercial banks have approved EUR 115 million to finance the second part of the Stožic project. That's probably true. And these same banks will then come and come to the National Assembly with a request for recapitalisation as soon as possible. There are 250 to 900 million euro of fresh capital to have capital adequacy. On the other hand, with the activity of the Government, government officials, including the Minister of Finance, including the President of the Government, provide resources for a system that does not have financial coverage. I hope the Court of Auditors is not mistaken in this analysis. How you will implement corrective measures in this area I do not imagine, Minister. We can only ask ourselves where we are going with such practices when public funds are distributed illegally in untransparent ways. When, in a non-transparent way, projects that did not have the financial structures provided in the start are financed beyond the Public Finance Act, beyond the Public Procurement Act. The following is also extremely interesting. According to the Public-Private Partnership Act, an investment firm is also an investment firm. Interestingly, the invitation to tender was opened by a city council with absolutely nothing to do with it. She just has to get it. Why didn't someone who was the investment bearer run for this project? Let's say the company Grep, but the city hall. However, the local congregation transferred everything to this private partner. And only then would the ownership relationship settle after the end of the investment. Doesn't anybody think it's weird? This project must have been set up differently. Here someone has already mentioned that lately these silent partnerships and silent associates are somehow in fashion. And it's probably not far from the truth, and you have to wonder if there's a silent companion in the back of the project, some quiet society that drives this project so that no one actually knows who's drinking and who's paying. And it is not known how much the price of the project is for this public work, nor does the financial structure of this project know, nor do the real economic prices of this project know. You don't know anything. And the Ministry of Education, although there are no issues, is funding such a project to someone who is not an investor. It is also interesting that this project has probably been transferred to a private partner primarily in order to avoid public calls to avoid questions as to whether the proceedings are going properly and correctly or not. I guess that's what this was all about. And now that all these stories have become complicated to this extent, it is impossible to resolve them differently than to have to be publicly intervened, both by state resources and by means of the city budget, and now no one is interested in how these funds have been committed. This project, however, has enormous influences, including on the public part of the project. Recently it was published that there was a competition for one football field, for one football stadium. That is to say, if the project were carried out correctly, then we could have a stadium with 40,000 viewers or something bigger. Now we have a stadium for 20,000 viewers that costs as much as 40,000 viewers. That's what the data says. We can read this in Finance, and we can also read this in some possibly less professionally based newspapers. But in Finance the analyses are very correct, they are done by financiers and so on. And here comes a series of open questions where this country spits, where we go, what projects we finance, who stands behind it, who is the silent companion of such projects and so on. Here are opened, honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, very relevant questions, including for your parliamentary group, although you try to do so when we discuss Members of other parliamentary groups, simply place them in a position to warn us that we are not discussing in the right direction or in the context. This debate fully refers to the way in which this investment is carried out and to the problem of financing this investment, in the way that Minister Luksic intended. The initiative to finance this project from the budget reserve is, in fact, not far from the right content, because the way in which this investment is managed, the way in which funds are required from the public partner, is a fundamental disaster. And if this government coalition is unable to determine that this is a major problem, that this is a major problem, then this country will soon experience a fundamental financial disaster. The path we are taking with debt, the path we are going with deficits, the path we are going with flooding and overlaps, is close to experiencing some serious financial disaster in this country, perhaps before the government's mandate expires. And the warnings of many who accompany our business at home and abroad go this way. However, obviously, as long as the voting machine is sufficiently oily, strong enough as it falls from this dispersion by public means enough on all coalition sides, it is unlikely that until then, in this coalition, it will not be expected to support any interpolation and any measure to remedy the situation in this area. And this smile on the other hand tells us a lot about how we feel about the situation in this country, about financial policy, about governments in this country, and also about the functioning of some regulators who should be concerned about how the banking system works. You should be very concerned about us as well. We're worried. The problems, the legacy that will remain, will be difficult and the question of whether it will be easily remediable. And here, gentlemen, on such exemplar occasions as what Minister Luksic did lay the foundations of conduct. And it should be a paradigm to act transparently, transparently, properly, fairly and not under a table and through silent societies. And here, the problem in this coalition is extremely large. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, do you still want a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Maja Potrat, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. 12 hours and something else we discussed on interpolation, and I would like, in addition to what I said on behalf of the parliamentary group on interpolation, to conclude now that, after long, long discussions, it is my conclusion that, in fact, the only good knowledge for me is that interpolation investors have focused on a single message, and this is a call. But they left behind other clues because they saw that they were made of vines. This is also the only thing that could be considered good in this context, because the discussions went in such a direction that the question arises whether the signatories to the interpolation actually read the interpolation and know what it says. The fact that they did not listen is evident because we have just heard the surprise that we were not the coalition MPs and Members concerned about the social problems and violations of labour law, but the words of Samir Handanovic were quoted. It just shows that we hear what we want to hear, but then what we wanted to hear, we also put on a general level. There's one more thing I need to respond to. So moralistically, there was a call to warn my fellow Member Dusan Kumra that he was not respectful in his speech. But he did exactly what is in law and also in pedagogy essential. You must not label an individual with a bad word, but you can mark his behavior with a bad word. That's not an insult. It is regrettable, however, if someone who thinks of himself as an expert in all things is a regular professor of the University of Slovenia saying that this person is considered a regular professor if he says he was just so named Minister. Dr. Igor Lukšič was first elected as an MP, gained the trust of the people who elected him, and then gained confidence in the National Assembly. And that trust, which was also expressed to him on my behalf at the time of his appointment, also kept to himself. And I don't feel like a victim of any political opinion or anything that I have to defend at this interpretation. I'm defending him because he convinced me with his arguments. However, it would be good for others to hear from it and say that the application has been evaluated and selected and the funds have not yet been paid. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majda Potter. Dr Igor Lukšić, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u262	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to everyone, including those you've just come to a new one! On the one hand, I am pleased that we have held this debate because it has been shown that of the 32 signatories to the interpolation, only 11 have overcome the argument that they can come before the Slovenian public. I also like that Mr Tanko realized half an hour ago that this interpretation was badly written. If it were not for this debate, we would still think that these products which they refer to the National Assembly, and in particular this interpretation, are as good as they claim from the very beginning. From the beginning, I said that I find it underestimating or bad for this country to read what the interpellationers wrote about how women use sex, how they copied parts of the interpretation against Katarina Kresal, how they copied parts of the interpretation from the first part. But we've documented all of this in our answer. When Mr. Chernač spoke of being a copy-paste, we have conceptual differences. Copy-paste means you copy and it's identical, all the same. It's not in the answer. Since we are also talking about the Slovenian public, you have received this in your hands, I would like to read a few things. The first reason for the interpolation shall be explained from point 1 to point 19. Point 1 does not explain the reason, but lists the text of the oath of ministers. Comment: This point is unfortunately not used, in particular in the work where the Minister swears to follow his conscience. On the other hand, acting on your own conscience is certainly one of the strongest expressions of ethics that the minister is told he does not have. In point 57, when they repeat this matter, the interpolation investors shall release this part from the summary of the oaths made by the Minister upon appointment. Point 2 does not explain the reason, but raises a self-questioning question to the applicants regarding the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia. So it has nothing to do with the evidence, not the minister. Comment: Such a question would be useful to address to the Minister responsible for public finances, or perhaps to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, as well as to any of the economic faculties would be better addressed than the Minister for Education and Sport. I don't want to go too far, but here in one part of the National Assembly, it's not even clear what the powers of the departments are. It's not clear what the laws are, what the Ministry is doing. I am pleased, however, that this teaching has remained that the interpellationers have found that the funds are drawn not by the law on public procurement, but by the other two laws and by one regulation. Nice to meet you, but it took 12 hours. But look, we have other institutions to learn about these things, not the National Assembly. And I'm gonna end up at this point in this. The fact that it was a copy-paste in our answer is not true. And if anyone is interested because we speak for the public and we answer to the public, then I suggest that you are, not just some interesting reading, but enough to see how someone understands the reality, that is, the government side along with the coalition, and how they understand the reality of others. This was said to be an invention that the head of the cabinet was on the committee, that it didn't matter. You wrote this in an interpolation where you read to this government that it's working improperly. You wrote it. And you wrote that he was the chairman of the Aluš Pertinac Commission, who was the president of the Young Forum. When was Alush president of the Young Forum? 1999, 2000. In the middle he worked two years for the government, previously, and was moved, removed. And Aluš Pertinač is interfering with this midway. He graduated from my place. He was even my assistant. He worked in college. But what qualifies him for this is that since 2004, he has been involved in the drawing-up of European funds and has been on this committee because he runs this department with us at the Ministry. So it wasn't because he graduated from my office, the president of this commission, or because he was a member or president of the Youth Forum ten years ago. But what comes from what you staged in 2007, which was also mentioned here, is that if someone is in a party called the Social Democrat, they should not assume certain functions. "Berufsverbot" was called in the NDR. So now those people - and here I remember another statement here that someone who has graduated from Ljubica Jelusič cannot perform some function in the Ministry of Defence. Where did we come from? That this is going to be obvious now, look out, it's going to be obvious! Whoever graduated with someone is an eyewitness to the minister or anyone, and he can't perform some kind of function. In short, I'm not going to bore you with this, because I see that you're all gathered to repeat this obvious. And I'm going to repeat that joke: you meet two and the first ask the other question, what is two plus two? And he says, "I don't know." And he says to the first one, look, two plus two is four so you can answer that question the second time. And immediately asks him again what two plus two is. And he says, yes, I don't know. And then he tells him again, look, the first time I told you, four. I'll tell you again, two plus two is four. And then ask him one more question like a good teacher wants him to learn something. And he tells him what two plus two is. And he's the first, the most, and you're really stupid, and I've already told you twice that I don't know, and you're still asking me. And here's the problem! Here we have this problem-- three times, four times written down, and things don't move. And, look, I'd like to tell you about the Slovenian public. Of course, everyone in Parliament does his job, of course, it is not the only rational criteria when we are talking about political matters. But, look, when we look at each other before our conscience, because we have vowed that each one will act according to his own conscience, not only does the Constitution bind us to it, but I wonder how some feel when they look in the mirror. And the question is, Do they even see themselves in there? As I see that the question of reality, what has also been mentioned here and what we have in there, is that when the interpretation says how Minister Luksic has been intensely committed to something in recent months. It's the last few months of the year. If we go into a double, there are two, there are three, two possible interpretations. But in no case do they fall in these last three months, for example, even this month of September, in which this interpolation takes place. Then we have a problem with time dimensions. We don't understand this calendar, hours, the same way. And that's worrisome. In any event, I am pleased that it was nevertheless found that the interpretation was badly written, that the interpellationers found that the findings were not holding and then went on to change from the material published elsewhere, that they were also dealing with some other minor matters within the Ministry or with those that were not related to this question of interpolation. Now I want to say again what I did in the introduction. Two years have passed since the Slovenian electoral body decided to change the majority in the National Assembly and supported a different majority. It supported the existing government. This government is doing well. People can congratulate each other on their anniversary. If the opposition acts in this way, it is highly likely that it will repeat the class in the benches of the opposition and will not advance to the class of the ruling suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Chairman. What the proponents think, I will say now, not that it was the Minister who took it on my behalf or on behalf of the proponents. That's very unfair. I'm not gonna tell you what kind of knowledge he's had right now, either, but I could. We believe that interpellation is justified. It is clear: a violation of Article 53 of the Public Finance Act, in conjunction with Article 7 of the Public Procurement Act. It is not true, Minister, that we have withdrawn the thesis of Article 7 of the Public Procurement Act. The Public Finance Act refers to it and requires all of them to respect principles such as the principle that potential tenderers should not be restricted in the allocation of funds, subsidies, loans and other forms of State aid, in order to protect competition, that competition should not be restricted and that a non-discriminatory opportunity should be given to all to succeed in the tender. These principles were violated by you with the invitation to tender. At first, the entire project for the construction of the sports park of Stožice was a project of a public-private partnership that was not envisaged for the construction and equipment of public funds. All should be provided by a private partner who in return receives only land after the investment has been completed. This was originally foreseen. That is why the President of the Government also said that this project would not receive a single cent of public funds. This project was originally envisaged and drawn from the budget. And at first it was also a letter to all mayors of the municipalities, so as early as June this year that there was no funding in the budget for financing sport infrastructure because it was being saved and they could promise to co-finance sports infrastructure only next year. That was until July of this year. And then the salad mortals. This July, Minister Luksic announced a call for co-financing of sport infrastructure, which is clearly discriminatory. Why? In addition to extremely short deadlines for the application and completion of the project, i.e. for such a large investment as more than €5 million and up to €45 million, it was necessary to apply within 14 days, it is said, to have all the application documentation. And the election notice was already in the same month. If the official office at all ministries were always so fast, it is said that within one month it has expired from a public invitation to tender to a decision on the selection of the contractor, everyone in this country would probably be happy. But there was a rush here because it knew why he was in a hurry. Because there was a rush to finish the Stožice Sports Park. It was a huge project, as over €5 million are large and very large projects, which had to be completed by the end of 2010. What project can be launched after July of this year and can be completed by December of this year? None if it hasn't started yet. Therefore, this call was adapted to the projects already started. The basic rule is that, if the projects have already started, they can only be granted State aid to public funds provided that all tenders under this project have been made under the Public Procurement Act. Were they, Minister? You haven't answered that with a single word, and I asked you here five times today. They weren't. It's a key reading. The call was discriminatory to projects in five statistical regions of seven regions. We have proved this very clearly. Neither Podravska nor Obalno-kraška, nor Savina region, nor the Gorenska region, nor the Koro region, were able to succeed in this call because they had gathered too few points on regional criteria and their role could not be further evaluated at all. See, these regions, including some on the tail of development, have been eliminated because the minister has decided that they already have sufficient sports infrastructure per capita. Many, in most of these regions they financed sports infrastructure with self-contribution. Has she ever been financed in Ljubljana by self-contribution? Have people with higher wages here, higher incomes, ever denied that their children have adequate sports infrastructure? No, no, no. These regions have been eliminated because some have made arrangements for what is not. And what kind of project did he support? Such a project, from which private partners have withdrawn from which banks have also withdrawn and the project has no completed financial structure, does not know who will finance it until the end, nor does it know the level of value of this project. The State entered such a project with public funds. These are the eloquent infringements established by Slovenian and European legislation in co-financing European cohesion policy projects. We've been proving this to you all day. I'm sorry you don't even want to listen, let alone accept the argument. And there's one more thing. Here today we have heard even one suggestion that interpellation's proponents lead anti-urban policy. Do we have only one urban center in Slovenia, I ask you, rhetorically. Are there no urban centres in Podravska, Coastal-Kraška, Savinjska, Gorenjska, Koroška region that are excluded from this, the honourable Member and President of the National Assembly who asked this question? This is not the anti-urban policy that we are leading through interpolation. The policy we are leading through interpellation is a policy against discrimination against those who also have good, quality projects and cannot cooperate because the Minister has decided to support only one. We are against discrimination, this is what we wanted to show you today on many occasions and with many debates. Therefore, we believe that the interpretation is justified. This was an intervention against the discriminatory policy of the Ministry of Education, with the minister in charge. This was not an interpretation against sports facilities, but at least against the Stožice Sports Park. Once again, this park was originally envisioned as a public-private partnership, and it did not foresee public funds at all, only when there were problems. And since the minister has apparently also estimated that he has very stricken arguments, he has given up dealing with me in tonight's Reflections in Slovenia 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much. During the available time, Minister Lukšič also spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. Time is divided, I haven't spent an hour and 20, you've spent [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I think you don't have to, I'll say new things, my brain doesn't work copy-paste, I'll say new things. [[...]] First thing, look, I've been here all day, I don't see any need, the public is quite familiar with our arguments, with your arguments. I have four kids at home, and I'm going to see them today, and I don't see any need to go to any more of these things and explain to someone how two plus two fours is, six times. That's one thing that might be new. That's another thing. Dear Members, the business we are doing for the country is important, everyone, it is important. The example we set and followed by everyone else in all subsystems is also important for this country. It is not good to give messages because I cover education and because things are changing there, right now I have had conversations with principals who are worried about where things are going. School demands are declining. But why is the difficulty being reduced? This is because, at national level, such products are given out of the hands. And look at the reaction. The first reaction was, you insult us because you say it's bad. It took you 12 hours to figure out this was bad. In education, it is important that someone who does something wrong prepare him to learn it, not to explain how offended he is. That's an important point. Therefore, my fellow Members, it seems important to me that the National Assembly takes account of the facts. All the facts were presented today. All the opinions have also been presented as to how someone sees these facts, how someone on the basis of prejudices should decide what the facts should be. It's all in front of us now. There is no reason why we should not then, on the basis of these facts, decide on the basis of these opinions. I think that it has been proven by the figures, by the legal basis that this was not a distortion, that it was not a matter of writing on the skin and that there was no discrimination in the case of potential investors for sports infrastructure. Since this was not the case, there is no reason to dismiss the Minister of Education and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u268	No, as a proponent, because I still have time and I'm the last one written on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u269	You've got 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u270	I have more because now you've taken my five. Therefore, the Minister did not with any single argument reject a very specific observation, nor did he with one single argument reject the obvious why he discriminated against the invitation to tender and excluded five Slovenian statistical regions. Let me repeat, Podravsko region, Coastal-Kraška region, Savinjsko, Gorenjsko and Koroška region. No project in these regions could succeed, so the call for proposals [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally? We could be nice, but we could answer because I don't know what you're thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u272	President-in-Office or President-in-Office! So far, the National Assembly has held that, following the discussion of the last debater, the debate is concluded and the rest of the time is shared. To date, this has been the case, and so have all those who conducted the meetings of the National Assembly. Today, for the first time, the chairman acted differently, not sharing the rest of the time after the last debater, but repeating the round of debates that were not written. They were gone. The Minister took his time, Mr Vizjak, who was the last speaker in the debate, took his time and concluded the debate. And from here on out, we should start a process of dividing the rest of the time. You didn't do it. And I suggest that, dear colleagues, those who are in charge of this session, that you act in such a way that all of us who are involved will know the rules of this matter. That these are not some ad hoc solutions, that there are no sui generis procedures and similar solutions with which the coalition comes to the National Assembly. And now also the presidents, who are from the coalition composition that you hold the meeting of the National Assembly, also come with sui generis solutions. Also with sui generis solutions. In this way, it is not possible to carry out a cultural, cultivated, organised way of working in the National Assembly. And I am taking the initiative to propose that you conduct the meetings of the National Assembly as set out in the Rules of Procedure, but not that the President, in relation to the conduct, wishes and so on, decides that the meeting will be conducted as he sees fit and not as it has been in the Rules of Procedure and as it has been in business and parliamentary practice so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u273	Thank you very much for your warning, Mr. Tanko. I accept responsibility for my decision and acted in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 4. Now we're moving on to the distribution of the remaining time. I ask who else wants to discuss it under Article 71. I'm giving you time to report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u274	Colleagues and colleagues, one minute and 13 seconds each, a little less because he is also a minister, so I suggest that we actually conclude the debate if you agree. I don't think in a minute and 13 it's really possible, even less, to have a debate. I'm guessing there's no objection. I'm closing the debate on interpolation. Interpellators propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, gives its non-trust to the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 180 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members shall be mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u275	One of the most regulated areas in the European Union and also in Slovenia is the granting of state aid, subsidies, shortening of public tax money for a project or a project. These are very clear rules. And the basic rules and principles applicable to the allocation of public funds are that equal access to these funds must be made possible for all. Everyone has the opportunity to apply and everyone can be chosen, but of course there are also some goals that they want to pursue through the allocation of public funds, and then those who are most eligible to these conditions are also chosen through these objectives. However, the rules do not allow discrimination against anyone in the allocation of public funds. The derogation from these legal frameworks, which the Minister of Every Government, and also the Prime Minister, must particularly adhere to, is the reason for its replacement, as it violates principles and legislation. In fact, it is such that someone constructively interprets the provisions of legislation in the absence of discrimination in the distribution of public funds, dangerous. Why? Tomorrow we will have similar calls in other ministries, which will again favour the pre-selected recipients of these funds, and we will have chaos in the country and, in particular, will be ridiculed by all public calls. Today's interpolation can also be a precedent. For example, when you confirm such behaviour that such behaviour is admissible – to make an invitation to tender, to favour individual tenderers through a number of tendering arrangements, the end of this favoured one is chosen and it is said that everything was fine and right, in accordance with the principles of transparency, protection of competition, protection of equality from the law and that everything was non-discriminatory. That's all you're going to do today and open the green light to further machinations in this country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party today, we will support interpellation or support the conclusion that Minister Lukšić will be relieved of this function in order to prevent such practice. Let me repeat the key discriminatory reason stated by the Minister in this call, perhaps there should be another minister sitting next to the minister, who has also supported this discriminatory reason: therefore, the call has excluded five Slovenian statistical regions. Even if they had brilliant projects in the Podravska, Coastal-Kraška, Savinjska, Gorenjska and Koroška region, they could not have been selected because, according to the Minister, these regions are already rich in sports infrastructure, which they were mainly financed by self-contribution. Therefore, of course, we will support the interpolation [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Group shall be given by the Victory of Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only that Mr. Secretary will learn something, just as we have learned many things from his. Europe will not give money until after the project has been implemented, but before it does, it will examine and shake very carefully. And first you have to pay for everything. First, the State of Slovenia must provide funds and prepare everything together and then practically Europe will return that money or replace the funds if it finds out that everything is okay. Here Europe will certainly find that everything is not all right, which means that we will not get the funds. This means that it was a gift given by Minister Luksic from his ministry of 9 million euros. This is what should not be happening in Slovenia, which is not happening anywhere in Europe. That is why we, in the Group of Members, are going to vote in favour of the Minister's discharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group or on its behalf? On behalf of the Group of Members, Franz Puksič shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u279	Thank you so much for noticing me. In the Slovenian People's Party, we didn't sign the interpellation. In the Slovenian People’s Party, we were the first to point out the shortcomings or irregularities that were created by the invitation to tender. However, we will, of course, support the interpretation for the reason that a number of laws in this area have been broken. Otherwise, I have already said in the debate that there was no need for us to interpret the Minister today, that there was no need to give funds in this way to the stadium, but he had a more elegant opportunity through the law of the capital. Who will answer and how – financially, materially – if Europe does not return these funds to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? There was no answer to that question today, and no one is likely to answer that question. We also noted in the debate that it was extremely unfair and unfair to make such an invitation to tender with the remaining funds of some others who did not meet the conditions, but with the remaining difference that remained at that Ministry, they could make a call. It is not true, Minister, that we could not have made this call before 2012. The call could be made, but according to the use of funds from all three operational programmes, given that it threatens us, which we have been alerting in the Slovenian People's Party for the past year, the threat is that this year, 2010, that is up to 31. 12., not all available resources will be used, calculations show somewhere – Minister Križanič, you can wave as much as you want, but 31. 12th, I hope you wave your hand here, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u280	Comrade Pukšič, in explanation of vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u281	Because we didn't take advantage of it. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u282	Ministers shall not be able to cooperate with them or to negotiate with them in explanation. [[...]] Please don't argue with ministers because they can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u283	The President, you up there, you can get [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u284	I took your word from you. You simply will not speak to the chairman in this assembly in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u286	I took your word, you have no word, you have no more words. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm glad you expected that. Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Of course my finger will stop on the "yes" button. It might even happen that you'll order technical services to fix this button. Of course, the reasons are not only in interpretation and in what is written in interpretation. My "yes" vote will be largely due to the terrible arrogance shown by the minister. First of all, at every step, he stresses, "I am a regular professor." Well, I could say, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u288	Comrade Gorenak, you can't argue with him. He can't answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u289	I'm explaining the reasons. I could say, "I'm an extraordinary professor," and I don't use it. We are Members here, and we are Ministers here. There are many other reasons why it is necessary to resolve the minister. He taught us all the time that the time of interpolation was inappropriate and so on that he should be on the government and so on. Let me remind you that in 2007, you were interpreting the Interior Minister just before the presidency, and there was nothing wrong. I'm worried, and that's why my vote will be "yes," the situation in this country. The President of the Government takes the floor for a minister, says publicly, at least that's what he said, and I will vote in favour, so that you won't forget that he's going to put all the power and so on. This is reflected in practice by the government's envoys walking around banks and ordering Celje 10, Ljubljana 55 million and so on. That's the influence of the Prime Minister. And that's why I'm afraid of the state of the country. And for these reasons, the Minister needs to be resolved. Of course, we are talking about a minister, but if he were to speak of a government, he would have done exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u290	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present [[...]] [[Applause]] Let me read the result. There are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I find that the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Luksic, was not voted on. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, under the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 21. 9. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. Since the amendment to Article 17 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the home working body, the proposal of the law became inconsistent and the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 21b, which you received on the bench. Does the Secretary of State want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u291	Mr President, thank you very much. As you yourself said, with the adoption of the substantive amendment to Article 17 it was necessary to harmonise the sentence of the sanction clause to Article 21.b. At its meeting today, the government adopted the text of the harmonisation amendment and forwarded it to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? Because they don't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Geodetic Activities. As the amendments to Articles 3 and 13 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space, the draft law became inconsistent. The Government has therefore prepared a harmonisation amendment to Articles 34, 39 and 44, which you have received on the bench. I give the floor to a representative of the government on the harmonisation amendment. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] You want a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u293	Mr President, it would be good if we could get together a little while while you're holding this meeting, because it doesn't go exactly according to the rules. However, with this amendment, which we now have before us, I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not found that a harmonisation amendment is needed for 12 days, from 10 to 22 September. It was only after we had voted in the National Assembly that the legislative and legal service proposed that the procedure was suspended and the harmonisation amendment prepared. And I would like to point out that this field of work at the Ministry of the Environment, as well as in other areas, you have previously dealt with one, does not go as well as it should. There's no organization of work, no control, no one knows who's drinking, no one's paying, and so on. And here you push through the national assembly procedure laws that are uncoordinated, which need a whole bunch of editorial and substantive corrections and so on. In the National Assembly, if not, at least in the Government, it would be good to have a conversation to agree on how you will function if you want the laws coming in to be substantively complete, that there will be no holes and that there will be no need to fix it at the last minute with these solutions. But the government didn't know for 12 days that anything needed to be fixed in this marriage. On 10 September, there was a hearing at the working body, 22nd at the plenary session of the National Assembly, in the middle of a hole, no one knew what was going on, the Minister and his Secretary of State did not respond and then there are proposals for solutions that are ready for rapid action. And the laws that are treated and adopted in this way certainly cannot bring any quality to the National Assembly. That is why we will not support this amendment or this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-23-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u294	Thank you very much. I conduct the meeting in accordance with the rules and rules of procedure. It is also clear to everyone that the need for a harmonisation amendment is decided and discussed after the third hearing is concluded before the final vote on the bill. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. At the same time, I would like to inform you that in 10 minutes' time, the Commission will continue its meeting at the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thus, the Mandate-Volution Commission continues its meeting in 10 minutes in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič. Thank you very much. Good night!
