ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, other guests, good morning! We continue the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Breda Pecan until 3 p.m., Melita Župevc, Alenka Jeraj until 5 p.m., Milenko Ziherl, Branko Grims, Milan Gumzar until 5 p.m. and Anton Urh. We'll be working on the scheduled agenda. In this connection, I am aware that, in preparing the agenda and implementing the agenda with the Government, we have agreed that today at 3 p.m. the National Assembly will begin its consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period January 2010 - June 2011 [[EPA 820-V, U-236, foreseen 23rd point]] and then proceeded with the consideration of the interrupted and any other outstanding points. It is unusual, but due to the need for more ministers to be present, and on the basis of the agreement of the President with the Government at 3 p.m., we interrupt the item that we will then consider, and we begin with the consideration of the proposal for a declaration, we conclude the examination of the declaration and continue until the expected end today, I hope that it will not be longer than around 22 p.m. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Economic Zones Act, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal of the Magi Act. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Economic Zones Act was adopted for the first time in 1998, following the abolition of free zone at borders in the process of entering the European Union. Then the law was fixed in 2002. In this amendment of the law, we have mainly adapted the aid scheme provided by the law of the zone to the European Union rules on permitted state aid. The law adopted at the time was to be in force by the end of this year. For this reason, we propose an amendment to the law extending the validity of this law until the end of 2013 and thereby confers benefits in these economic zones for the next three years. The benefits of marriage do not change in themselves. The amendments introduced to the law itself are merely a compliance with the current state aid system, since there have been further changes to the state aid scheme at European Union level and some other adjustments to the law which constitute a harmonisation of the law with other laws adopted and corrected during that time. In my presentation, allow me to touch on the proposed amendment, which proposes that the tax rate be reduced, namely the tax rate for the taxation of legal persons. We believe that the amendment proposal, as proposed, is not acceptable for two reasons. The first is that the procedures are relatively complex to determine such an exemption or to reduce the tax rate. The second reason is that there could be a cumulation of State aid which would go beyond the level allowed at European Union level. We therefore propose that you do not support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the member of the Renata Brunskole Committee to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Honourable representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its 14th meeting, on 10 February, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Economic Zones Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. At its 50th meeting, on 15 January 2010, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the proposal in question following a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical terms and forwarded comments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 8 of the proposal. Within the deadline of business, the amendments were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on Articles 4, 5 and 7 and by the coalition parliamentary group, taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 1, 3, 5 and 8 of the legislative proposal. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance, which does not support the proposal because of the assessment of the basic approach taken, namely the provision of assistance to certain groups of economic operators which are thus recognised as special status. In the context of the additional explanation of the proposal tabled at the meeting of the Committee by the Minister responsible for Finance, the substantial emphasis was placed on the text submitted, which follows the basic objective of ensuring regional development and promoting employment in economic zones by extending the tax advantage regime to 2013 at the same time forming a favourable business environment. The main principle is the granting of State aid to all those who meet the conditions for expected positive effects and without unacceptable competition. At the same time, the conditions for the enforcement of tax advantages in economic zones are changing both in the manner and in the scope of the regional aid guidelines. In this way, the scheme for the application of tax advantages in economic zones shall be extended until the end of 2013, subject to amended conditions and subject to Union rules. In addition to this, the possibility of applying tax advantages and granting State aid to the so-called large investment project is legal and at the same time harmonise criminal provisions with the applicable provisions of the Slovenian legislation establishing a fine for offences or their amounts. In the context of its consideration, the Committee adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS to Articles 1, 3, 5 and 8 of the legislative proposal. The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 4, 5 and 7 of the legislative proposal were not adopted by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted individual articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you. The Honorable President. Colleagues, government representatives! As already stated by the representative of the applicant, the Economic Zones Act was adopted for the first time in 1998 and allowed then free customs zones to exercise special tax advantages, particularly in the case of the then corporate tax. Later, in 2002, the amended State Aid Act in Economic Zones was aligned with the national acquis, and later in 2007, we adapted ourselves to the Union guidelines on State regional aid for the period 2007-2013. Throughout the period, the main objective of the law was regional development and employment promotion. The truths about loving application and the effects of the law are not great. The benefits have been drawn relatively modestly over the last three years. The proposed law provides the following three main solutions: the scheme for the enforcement of tax benefits in economic zones is extended until 2013. Secondly, the rules governing how State aid can be implemented and the third time also provide for the possibility of applying tax advantages and granting State aid to a so-called large investment project. The Zares Group will complement the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act. However, it does not support the amendment to the amended law relating to Article 5 thereof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u8	Good afternoon. Hello, everyone! The National Assembly adopted the basic law on economic zones in 1998, as we have heard today. In addition, it has made it possible to apply specific tax advantages that were considered State aid to the previously free customs zones. The main objective and purpose of the law was regional development and promotion of employment. For the first time, the law was amended in 2001 and the granting of state aid in economic zones for users was aligned with the national legal order on State aid and accepted international obligations. Thus, the conditions for the enforcement of tax advantages for business in economic zones have changed, namely, those benefits have been ensured for initial investments, the creation of new jobs associated with initial investments and the creation of other new jobs that are not directly linked to initial investments. The applicable Economic Zones Act provides in the second paragraph of Article 1 that economic activity in economic zones shall be provided for by law until 1 January 2010. The main solution to the law before us is to extend the scheme of benefits for economic activities in economic zones, namely the extension of the period during which tax incentives for investment and employment may be imposed until the end of 2013. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u10	Even on my side is a good day. With the proposed amendment to the Economic Zones Act, the regime for the enforcement of tax benefits in economic zones has been extended to 2013 in Slovenia. The proposal amends the regulation of state aid for so-called large investment projects worth more than €30 million. With €50 million, this can be 30%, with a decrease of €100 million, leaving 10.2%. It is the assistance of the state to companies investing in Slovenia to create new jobs. The main principle is the granting of State aid to all those who meet the conditions for expected positive effects without unacceptable competition. At the same time, the conditions for the enforcement of tax advantages in economic zones are changing both in the manner and in the scope of the regional aid guidelines. In addition to this, the possibility of applying tax advantages and granting State aid to the so-called large investment project is subject to the law, while at the same time coordinating criminal provisions with the established provisions of Slovenian legislation on the establishment of a fine for offences and their amount. Since, according to the assessment of the Group of Members I represent, the proposal before us, while ensuring regional development and promoting employment in economic zones, forms a favourable business environment, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Today is actually the day when it is, or it would be, worth a lot of talking to the National Assembly. Today, I think it is very important and true themes that help people and deserve them. We'll talk about the Economic Zones Act, the Treasury Act, the Tax Act, the Public Procurement Act. These are important content. The Government has prepared a proposal for an Act amending and supplementing the Economic Zones Act for a substantial reason, namely that the amendments and amendments to the Act are extended or relate to tax reliefs that will be extended until the end of 2013. The objective is still the same: aid, regional development, employment promotion. With the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Economic Zones Act, we have adapted, I hope, also definitively, to certain provisions of the European Union. That's how the law is uniform. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the law is true. We'll back him up. At the same time, we stress that we will also support the amendment, despite what the Secretary of State has said, we believe that in fact it is possible that the rate of corporate tax laid down by this law governing taxation may not be lower than 10%. In fact, if this amendment were adopted, it is actually achieving a goal that helps all those who are engaged or who would be initial investors to help create new jobs or other jobs indirectly, which is also our wish, the wish of the State of Slovenia by the 2013 period to which this law will apply. As it is said, the Slovenian National Party supports the Economic Zones Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u14	Good morning, good morning. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Madam Secretary of State and co-workers. I am pleased that the amendment of this law has great support, even at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will join this measure, which improves the economic situation and brings new jobs. The main amendment introduced by the proposed Act of Amendment and the addition of the Economic Zones Act relates to the extension of the system of application of tax benefits in economic zones, which is to be extended until 2013. Although the law was adopted in 1998 and at that time we allowed free-of-carinian zones to exercise special tax advantages. Later, due to the entry into the European Union, the law had to be adapted to state aid rules, with the conditions for the application of individual tax advantages being changed. In addition, the law has been adapted to the provisions of the European Union Guidelines on State and Regional Aids. However, as in 1998, the objective and purpose of the law are still the same, this is the promotion of regional development and the promotion of employment. Since the current regime allows tax benefits to be used only by 1 January 2010, it is necessary to amend and extend this period to, say, 2013 in order to pursue and achieve the objective of promoting and developing employment, which is certainly the measures we all need during the economic recession. In addition to the main changes - this is the extension of the period of special tax benefits - the law also includes changes relating to the conditions or rules governing how such State aid can be applied, the possibility of applying tax benefits for so-called large investment projects is also introduced, which we find particularly noteworthy and commendable in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and changes relating to the harmonisation of indicator provisions with other Slovenian legislation. The final, final and final assessment at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is that the extension of the period of application of tax benefits will be useful for promoting development and fostering investment in employment. This is particularly important, once again, in these times of crisis, so we will unitedly support the proposal for a law in our House of Members. And we are pleased, on the basis of the forecast, that support will also be from other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting from the secretary of state with a co-worker! Colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the Economic Zones Act in principle. Amendments to the Economic Zones Act are necessary as the applicable Economic Zones Act in Article 1, paragraph 2, provides that the economic activity in economic zones provided for under the Act is ensured until 1 January 2010. In fact, we are already late, and the extension of the scheme of benefits for economic activity in economic zones is an extension of the period until the end of 2013, in which tax relief and state aid for investment and employment may be imposed, essential and part of measures to mitigate the economic and financial crisis. In any event, it is necessary to maintain the provisions of this law during the crisis period which promote regional development and investment and employment in economic zones. The proposed amendments and additions to the law, or the extension of the tax advantage regime in economic zones by 2013, follow this objective and create a favourable business environment. It should be stressed that the facilitations in the Economic Zones Act promote economic activity and employment. During the period 2006-2008, according to the Ministry of Finance, users of economic zones for activities carried out in these zones exercised tax advantages in the form of a reduction of the tax base for corporate income tax and a total of 40 million euros for investment in fixed assets in the economic zones. It is important to amend Article 20, 20a and 20b of the existing law, which increases or slightly changes tax reliefs and state aid for investment and employment in companies operating in economic zones in line with the European order. Article 8 of this amendment adds a new Article 20c, which specifically lays down the conditions for major investment projects. According to the definition of such a project set out in the first paragraph of this Article, this is an initial investment where the eligible costs exceed EUR 50 million. There is also a rule when a group of individual projects is considered to be a major investment project. For large investment projects, State aid rules provide for a different way of calculating the aid intensity when it comes to a project where the value of the eligible costs exceeds EUR 50 million. There is still an impossibility to apply State aid under this Article if the amount of this aid for all resources amounts to more than EUR 22 million 500 000 because a specific procedure is needed for higher aid amounts. This is part of the Government's efforts to encourage investors to invest in business zones with such incentives and incentives. We are confident that the continued application of the facilitations of the Economic Zones Act will continue to promote regional development, which is one of the objectives of establishing economic zones and business zones, such as investment and employment in economic and business zones. As we have said, the parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act, as we see the possibility of business innovation in these areas. However, the Social Democrats' Group will not support the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 5 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Marjan Bezjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u18	Well, hello, thank you. Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State and her co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act change or supplement the conditions for the enforcement of tax benefits for business in economic zones in a manner and to the extent set out in the EU Regional Aid Guidelines. The proposed law is intended to ensure further regional development and promotion of employment in economic zones. The essential provision of the amendment is that the regime for the enforcement of tax benefits in economic zones is extended until 2013, which we welcome in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. However, it should be noted that this proposal reduces or even eliminates tax advantages, which is not in line with the objective of ensuring regional development and promoting employment in economic zones. Thus, in the amendment of the Law for Users of Economic Zones, the 10% tax rate on the profits of legal persons is abolished. Tax benefits for the provision of new jobs that are not related to the initial investment will only be applied by users of economic zones to more difficult persons instead of all persons as provided for in the applicable law. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to maintain tax advantages in economic zones at least as high and as provided for by the law in force were unduly rejected at the meeting of the home labour body. Economic zones have not yet come to terms with what they would like, and by reducing tax benefits the situation will only deteriorate. Economic zones are expected to disappear completely, resulting in even more uneven regional development. Therefore, unless the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group retains a lower rate of profit tax for users of economic zones is adopted, we will not support the amendment of the Economic Zones Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. By Article 5 of the Act, the Slovenian Democrats have tabled an amendment and we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled on the basis of a review of 2 March 2010. Who wants to propose an amendment and a member's word? I'm giving you time to report. Whoever wants to do this, please report to the debate. Mr. Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. We are already dealing with various things at this time, but not with what is necessary. I think today is just the right time to discuss the realisation of economic work in Slovenia, to actually make Slovenia better. I see there are quite a few of us Members who are attending today's meeting. Everyone else is in their pocket thinking that the economy needs to be destroyed and that they will live off the bad air we have in Slovenia. It is true that the 1998 law is in force. This law, which was passed, was intended and also carried out a balanced development of the whole of Slovenia, and it was by no means only the privileges of certain cities in our country. We must be aware that many economic zones were formed in these congregations at the time of the establishment of many smaller congregations. With this law that you want to adopt today, we will in fact leave these economic zones empty and the fact that the even development of the whole of Slovenia will go in the right direction will not be realized, but certain cities will again be privileged, which already have advantages over smaller municipalities, smaller regions, smaller economic zones. I don't see any reason why the government doesn't actually want to support our amendment. I don't know, we already have a bad economy in Slovenia, at this time, believe me, by May there will be just 30-40 thousand additional unemployed people. By shutting down and not giving up opportunities for development in economic zones, there will be more and not less jobs. Here I would like to ask you to start thinking about development, about people, about real economic operators who are still willing to invest in development, in new jobs. I cannot agree at all that we also want or want to destroy these small, medium and micro-enterprises, because Slovenia is as small as it is, it must actually give all its support to these companies. Just these companies. Here's the perspective. We ourselves know that at the time of the collapse of Yugoslavia there was a great shock for the Slovenian economy, because it was only connected to the former Yugoslavia. Rare companies were bound outside the territory of the then Yugoslavia. Now it's even more of a shock than it was then. And if we are going to legally restrict the development of these companies, then I see no reason why, but who else is going to operate economically in Slovenia. From day to day we increase tax rates, from day to day we become a more expensive country. Then it is no wonder that companies flee Slovenia where countries are more environmentally friendly, for the economy - not for individuals, for a country-friendly economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 5 and the amendment? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I hope it wasn't disturbing when my colleague sitting in front of me talked and actually opened an important substantive question that perhaps the Secretary of State might have answered. In fact, in Article 1, the sentence "tax on profits" is transformed into a "tax on income". So, the tax on profit is out of this logic. In the amendment to Article 5, however, the sentence is "the rate of corporate tax". If you think about it, the income tax or profit tax can be substantially different. And now I don't know if the amendment maker could have taken the wrong direction, so I should have used the "level of corporate income tax" dictatorship, or whether the amendment's drafter deliberately used the "tax on the profits of legal persons" dictatorship for some substantive reasons. I think that there is a question here that the Government should clarify, perhaps with the help of the Legal and Legislative Service, because otherwise we undermine Article 1 which creates this dictatorship, as if there is no other tax in this law than a tax on income. And here we have the term "profit tax" and the question is whether you gave it on purpose or if you made a mistake. It can happen that this amendment is also irrelevant. So it would be good to clear up now, before making a decision, and not then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. First Mr. Bezjak asked for his word and then Helena Kamnar. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I absolutely agree with what my colleague Barovic has said is actually a difference, whether the state collects a profit tax or a income tax. We know that a tax on profits can be much lower for the country than a tax on income. However, it is right that we actually make or that we have a country that is friendly to taxpayers, but not that we have a country that can only collect and not create a good climate, a good condition for economic operators in this country. Because if it's not a nice country, then there's no nice taxpayers either. And believe that there are many companies in Slovenia that have actually come from micro-enterprises - medium-sized enterprises and very successful companies. And also these micro-enterprises need help, they need to be given an additional injection to actually encourage them, motivate them to develop, because these companies have the greatest prospect of creating new jobs. We ourselves know that large companies in Slovenia are at great risk because in all these last ten, fifteen years they have not been able to restructure. Here the country has spent a lot of money on restructuring these big companies in these times, but success has been very small. It is therefore important that they are actually building and building economic zones across Slovenia and that in these economic zones they are brought to life by independent entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and that we enable these people to actually develop and enable people who are taxpayers in fact to provide the additional jobs that we still need in Slovenia. Believe that in Slovenia there are many independent entrepreneurs, s.p.s, who somehow cannot be stimulated, who are actually self-employed and - what would be called - "one man band". It is true that we need to know what s.p.s can be and what small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises can be, because we also do not have these things cleared and separated. It is very encouraging for every individual citizen to be able to work, because it is important that we also know each individual citizen to collect taxes, but not that in fact some are allowed to do what they want and do not contribute to the state treasury, but those who already contribute to the state treasury need to be further burdened. We're the most expensive country in the world, but there's only two million of us. I don't know if the perspective of this population on the sunny side of the Alps is still long-term. Believe that with additional burdens, with additional closures, with which we have attracted the economy, companies in these zones, we continue to drive them further away from our Slovenia on the sunny side of the Alps.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, may I give the floor to Mr. Aloysy Potočnik first? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would say that, with regard to the amendment, it seems to me that, given that a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Areas has already been practically completed in the procedure, which had already been amended in Article 1 at that time, that the cut of the "tax on the profits of legal persons" should be replaced by the term "tax on the income of legal persons" so that the amendment should already be submitted to the corporate income tax. But it's a matter that, procedurally or by correction, can be corrected. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of the drafter to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the difference between the legal or statutory rate that you have proposed is 10% and the effective rate that then arises in the accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Stoner, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Part of the explanation was already given. So in 2004, we went from corporate tax to corporate income tax. In this context, there is also a proposed amendment in this law to those articles which relate to the tax or profit tax benefits. It is true, as Mr President has said, that the amendment should change the dictatorship in order to comply with the legislation in force. So there should be talk of corporate income tax. Nevertheless, I would like to state further reasons why we have proposed deleting this instrument in the law itself, which has been in force for ten years. In ten years no one has taken advantage of this instrument, so we thought that there was no need for such an instrument to continue to exist. The reason why no one took advantage of this instrument is actually two. The first reason is that, with other aids provided for by this Act, such as tax advantages or business facilitations, investment reliefs and the like, they lead to the tax base being reduced to such a low level that, in fact, the payment of a profit tax is not or is equal to zero. However, the second point is that the system of cumulation of State aid in force under European legislation requires that all State aid received by an individual legal entity be aggregated. And when it is determined what limits these State aids have reached, the difference between this limit and the State aid already achieved is calculated, and it is only in this area that it is possible to reduce the tax rate. This means that in each particular case it is necessary to calculate what reduction in the tax rate may be imposed so as not to exceed the cumulative threshold of State aid. From this point of view, the system of such assistance is extremely complicated, demanding and, as I say, has not been served by anyone so far. We therefore believe that this instrument is simply not needed in the future, because there are so many other types of aid provided by the law that achieve the same effect. I would just say that, in the area of corporate income tax, we do not increase obligations, but we have been reducing them for the fourth year in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Look, Madam Secretary of State, in these very bad times, it is important that people and businesses benefit from these things, 10% relief, because in the last ten years there has been money to spare. The banks were throwing money for the economists and for the population. Therefore it is important in these difficult times to actually [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 5 and the amendment? Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u32	I'd have another question. I will express myself more domestically, as to the decision on this amendment, which I hope will be changed by the applicants. Does it mean, in your own words, that such an amendment would not be accepted because no one would pay any more taxes? We could talk, I'll say domestically, about "smuggling" about the fact that foreigners would not pay any taxes; in short, our country would have none of this if, now, I'm generalizing, such an amendment were accepted. Is that it?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u33	Mrs. Kamnareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. No, actually, it's not that if this amendment were accepted, no one would pay the tax. Such a situation can, in fact, be achieved by this regulation, as incentives for employment investments are in place and the tax base is reduced so much that no tax is paid. We propose the withdrawal of this instrument for a simple reason, because it is not operational because, because of the system I have tried to describe, no one is actually serving and does not benefit. In fact, it's a dead instrument. If no one has taken advantage of it in 10 years because they have already achieved the same objective with other instruments, then it is not assumed that someone can take advantage of it now, because everyone is trying to drive things in such a way as to reduce their tax base and that it is not possible to pay a profit tax at all. It's in good times and bad times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Can I count the debate on Article 5 and the amendment as concluded? Yeah. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendment. We will decide on this law today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda, at 21.50 at the latest. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, the cut-off procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give my word to a representative of the government, mag. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members and Members. The changes to the law before you do not significantly affect the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the establishment of a system to combat money laundering. Similarly, those who are obliged to implement all measures under this Act do not impose new obligations, obligations and burdens, but, on the contrary, it maximizes the burden on the debtors in those parts where this is in line with international practice in this area and with the guidelines laid down by European rules. The main reasons for amending the law are the introduction or final implementation of the European directives, the introduction of certain incentives for debtors, the adaptation of the Slovenian regime in practice or the implementation of the provisions of the European directives in other Member States of the European Union, and even more consistent compliance with the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, the adaptation of the amendment, the Penal Code and the elimination of minor uncertainties and inconsistencies of certain provisions in the law so far. If I sum up for a moment the novelties and improvements that the law brings. First of all, it is the implementation or alignment of the Slovenian acquis with the Internal Market Payment Services Directive. This Directive has already been implemented in the latest amendment to the Payment Services Act adopted last year. Part of this Directive is also implemented in this regulation and, as debtors to the implementation of the law, we use the term of the paying institution, instead of the companies that provide payment services or payment services and transfers of funds, under the new law. The second amendment introduced by the law concerns the inclusion of provisions allowing the parties to waive the review of certain products to be carried out by those obliged to deal with certain products. In particular, cases where individual products already under way and already being reviewed from other products within the meaning of this Act do not need to be re-examined in each of the following products, but only those actions necessary to obtain additional information are carried out. The third novelty relates to the simplified conduct of the customer review if the debtor decides to pursue an additional business relationship with the same party. This is where the procedures are simplified. Following the abolition of the mandatory annual review of foreign legal persons and the partial transposition of these provisions in the context of regular monitoring of clients, further, the inclusion of new provisions in the draft law for the implementation of the international recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, which have so far not been transferred to the Slovenian money laundering prevention and detection system, is primarily a review of any major changes in business processes or the introduction of new products or new technologies that could lead to conduct contrary to the law and the reintroduction of a declaration for customers carrying out transactions over EUR 15,000, which is again in line with the new Directives of the European Union. I suggest you support the marriage you have before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism at its 14th meeting, on 10 February 2010. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to Articles 3, 10, 14, 19 and 21. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Crafts, Tourism and Finance Council, which supported the proposal of the law and drew up a specific comment on Article 4 on the deletion of the word "appropriate" in the last line of this Article. The draft law was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Zares, the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, on Articles 3, 10, 14, 19 and 21. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Minister of Finance stressed, inter alia, that the proposed amendment does not significantly affect the substance of the current law and does not impose new obligations on the debtors, but even facilitates some. However, the accompanying novelties bring a number of innovations due to the implementation of the EU Directive, the amendment of the Penal Code and the elimination of some of the shortcomings of the basic law. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative pointed out that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups fully followed the comments made by the service. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified all amendments to the amendments tabled and adopted by the coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u40	Your Honors are here! In 2007, we transposed into the Slovenian legal order the Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing and the Directive on the definition of politically exposed persons and technical criteria for procedures, simplified, duties, due diligence in identifying the identity of the party and exemptions based on financial activities that take place only occasionally or on a limited scale and adopted a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The main purpose of the novel, which is ahead of us this time, is to re-implement European directives. In the area of financial services, the normal arrangements for payment services have been agreed, and some new provisions of the Slovenian regulation will further take into account the generally established recommendations of the Financial Action Team's projects for the detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The recommendations of these groups are also the basis for assessing the effectiveness and appropriateness of the measures taken, the detection and prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism in each country. In Slovenia, some new institutions have also been set up in the last two years to take over certain powers and tasks in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing by adopting the novel. At the same time, in 2008 a new criminal code was also in force, whose solutions are taken into account here. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we see no reason not to support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Say hello to everyone again. The global general recommendations of the International Financial Action Task Force to detect money laundering prevention and financing of terrorism in the framework of the OECD are in place. Slovenia is not yet a member of this group and is therefore assessed within the Council of Europe by the value of the area. According to the World Assessment, Slovenia is one of the most regulated countries in the field of money laundering prevention and terrorist financing. The main purpose of the bill before us is the implementation of the EU directives, the adaptation of Slovenian practice to practices in other EU Member States. Directive 2007/64 of the European Community is subject to the principle of full harmonisation, which means that Member States must not sign additional or different requirements as provided for in the Directive. In Slovenia, some new institutions have been established in the last two years in the area of competence. At the same time, in 2008 a new criminal code came into force, in which a number of amendments, additions, new offences took place, taking into account the proposal for a law. The changes in the law themselves do not significantly affect the substance of money laundering and terrorist financing, but even introduce a series of innovations. In addition to the already mentioned implementation of the Directives of the European Union, certain reliefs or simplifications are introduced for the debtors. In this way, the parties to the treatment of certain products are allowed to waive the customer’s examination, and the conduct of the customer’s review is simplified if the debtor decides to have an additional business relationship with the same party. It shall be re-confirmed to obtain a declaration whether the party is carrying out a transaction worth EUR 15,000 or more in its own name or for someone else’s. The obligation to re-examine foreign legal persons shall be waived. The powers to supervise the implementation of the provisions of this Act shall be conferred on audit firms and independent auditors - the Agency for Public Oversight of Auditing. Since, according to our assessment, the proposal of the novel does not affect the substance of the existing law and brings some improvements, we will support it in our parliamentary group, as well as in the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. We are considering a law whose address reminds us that we must be careful. That is, we are talking about money laundering and terrorist financing. And the logical link between the title and the thought is that this law is supposed to bring new refinements, that this law should be even more complete, more precise and sharp. In fact, when we examined and evaluated it in the Slovenian National Party, we found that the law did not essentially interfere with the substance of money laundering and terrorist financing. Nor does it impose new obligations and debts or burdens and even lighten them slightly. And this logic now in such a law where we have to prevent money laundering, we have to be careful about financing terrorism, it's a little out of line. Otherwise, it is essential to implement the European Union directives in this area, which is, of course, our duty on the one hand, but on the other hand, it is good if some things are harmonised, but we believe in the Slovenian National Party that some of the things that have been brought forward, at least in this part that we have read here, are not always good. If we look at these changes more precisely, I think there are five. Well, the first is implementation, where the law retains the commitment to implement measures to detect and prevent money laundering and introduces a payment institution as a new category of financial institutions. Here is the fact as it is, and we have no doubts. The thoughts of the Slovenian National Party begin with a second novelty, including provisions when the parties to the treatment of certain products are allowed to waive the customer review, which is sometimes simplified and good, but is substantively questionable whether it is right or wrong. This proposal for a law in this second amendment also extends the existence of a set of these products and transactions, which by expression in this law poses a minor risk of money laundering. I wouldn't use that term in money laundering and terrorist financing, but I'm not a lawyer and I don't know the legal language. Also a small amount of money laundering and terrorist financing is a serious crime, at least for the Slovenian National Party. We are also in doubt in the Slovenian National Party on the third news. It is a matter of simplifying the conduct of the review of the parties if the debtor decides to have an additional business relationship with the same party. We can also imagine that this is a good, faster business, that it is a trust, and on the other hand this trust can be exploited, which would not have happened for the first time. The fourth novelty, which is the removal of the mandatory annual review and is also explicitly highlighted in the Slovenian system, removes the mandatory and re-annual review for foreign legal persons on the basis of the European model, even this is not a good intention for the Slovenian National Party, but it seems to us that we have the right to have our own opinion, but it seems to us that there is a second, third and fourth innovation, too much flexibility at the expense of coordinating implementation with Europe, and I have the feeling that such are, otherwise, good news and possible promotion of work, greater productivity in this business, but that it is not good enough to open the door to the possibility of a greater number of smaller money laundering or the possibility of less financing of terrorism. Because of these concerns and these doubts which I have expressed on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, the decision on whether or not it is acceptable will depend on the opinion of each individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, a good-bye to everyone! When amending the law governing the prevention of money and the financing of terrorism, it is less difficult, in terms of content and scope, but nevertheless an urgent and important change mainly due to compliance with European Union law. The principles underlying the amendment of the law do not derogate in any way and change the principles of the current law. It is a matter of implementing international standards in the Slovenian legal order, in which the following main principles are followed. This is the principle of the protection of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and its institutions from the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is also a principle of transparency and consultation and cooperation with competent national authorities, debtors and other institutions. It is also important to ensure flexibility or flexibility in the application of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, taking into account risks. Finally, the positive effect of these principles is to ensure the principle of a long-term balance, on the one hand, between costs, on the other hand, between benefits, in the implementation of preventive measures for institutions and organisations to which the proposed new law will apply. If I finally touch on the content of the proposed amendments contained in the bill, I can first point out that they do not significantly interfere with the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the fight against money laundering and the fight against terrorist financing. More importantly, no new, additional obligations and burdens are imposed on those who are obliged to implement the measures. On the contrary, certain obligations are slightly reduced, facilitated and simplified, which I think is good at the moment. Nevertheless, some new developments are being introduced by law. The main ones are: implementation of all the European Union directives governing this area; introduction of facilitation and simplification of the procedures for debtors, for example, will not be necessary to verify the accounts several times a year; and the Slovenian regime adapts appropriately to practice, this is the implementation of the provisions of the European Union Directives in other Member States of the European Union. It is also appropriate to take into account the generally applicable recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, which is an important reference in this area, which has established recommendations from the international community for the detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which are the basis for assessing the effectiveness and appropriateness of the measures taken to combat money laundering and terrorist financing in each country. At the same time, certain provisions shall also be adapted to the amendments to the Penal Code, with a simple aim of remedying possible uncertainties or doubts. These are briefly key points and abstracts from the law. At the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that, with the proposed amendments to the law, we will first align the Slovenian legal order with Directive 2007/64 EC. Furthermore, with the proposed amendments for the debtors who are obliged to implement measures to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing, we would like to introduce some of the facilitations already provided for in the European Directives, which have not yet been applied in our legislation. The aim is also to eliminate some in practice perceived shortcomings and editorial inconsistencies of individual laws established in the application of the law itself. The principles on which the proposed amendments to the law are based do not deviate from the principles of the current current law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism, as it is a matter of implementing international standards into the Slovenian legal order. In view of the principle that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and its institutions are protected from the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing, the applicant also followed the principle of transparency and consultation with the competent national authorities, the debtors and other institutions concerned by this law. Furthermore, the proposal follows the principle of ensuring certain flexibility in the use of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, taking into account risks. This should result in ensuring the principle of a long-term balance between costs and benefits in the implementation of preventive measures by organisations, which will also be subject to the new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. These amendments to the Act also include provisions governing gambling that are organised via the Internet and other telecommunications means, or some relief would be given to parties to organisers and concessionaires who arrange gambling through internal or other telecommunications means. The latter are not necessarily subject to the regulation of directives of the European Community, but are included among the parties to the implementation of the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing on the basis of the assessment of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to e-money, the proposal for a single payment limit, for which the debtors can still abandon the customer review, raises from 150 to 250 euros. This adjustment of the threshold is due to the envisaged changes in the European Union and the electronic money directives. Amendments to Article 85 of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and the granting of powers to control the implementation of the provisions in the audit companies and the independent auditors of the Agency for Public Auditing require an amendment to Article 52 of that Act, so that a new supervisor is also included among the bodies involved in drawing up the list of customer identification indicators and transactions for which there are grounds for suspicion of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is for the sake of all of this that the Group of Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Istok Podkrižnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u50	President, thank you for your word. Respectable present. Amendments or innovations contained in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism do not significantly affect the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Those who are obliged to implement all measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing do not impose new obligations, debts or burdens, but even make some obligations slightly easier. However, they are introducing quite a few novelties. Among other things, Directives of the European Union are being implemented in this area, some reliefs are being introduced for the debtors, simplifications are being introduced, so that there is no need to re-check the settled accounts several times a year. At the same time, certain provisions are being adapted to the amendments to the Penal Code and certain uncertainties are being addressed. Provisions are included to enable the debtors of certain products to waive the customer’s review, which is a new simplification. The proposal for a law extends the existing set of products and related transactions, which pose a minor risk to money laundering and terrorist financing and which therefore do not need to be reviewed by the party by the debtors. It shall be simplified to carry out a review of the client if the debtor decides on an additional business relationship with the same party, to abolish the mandatory annual review of foreign legal persons and to partially transpose the provisions in the context of the regular monitoring of the client, to reintroduce the acquisition of a declaration, or to re-establish a transaction of EUR 15 000 or more in its name or for someone third. In order to comply with the international standard recommendation, the draft law reintroduces into the Slovenian regime a declaration by which a party carrying out a transaction of EUR 15 000 or more shall determine or carry out a transaction on its behalf or for a third party. This is mainly a European Union directive and we support the proposal for a law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timetable, today after the end of the agenda, and not later than 21.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise, the short-term procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Helena Kamnar State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In fact, the proposal to amend the law before you concerning excise duties is a fundamental reason to amend this law to adapt the acquis to the European Union or to implement the European general excise duty regime directive, which establishes a new way, a computerised system for the movement and control of excise goods. The proposal sets out the key elements of the procedure for the movement of excise goods, the start and end of excise duty free movement, the obligation to produce an electronic excise duty document for the movement of excise goods under the suspension of excise duty between the Member States of the European Union. It lays down the procedures to be applied when a computerised system is not available and lays down the conditions for the storage or movement of excise goods. The law was supposed to be implemented on 1 April 2010, if this law had not been implemented in a timely manner, Slovenia would have lost the opportunity to be included in the single information system, and this would have resulted in a much later implementation of the European regulation and also in a nuisance that would ultimately result in poorer excise duties. In addition, we make some other amendments to this law as an essential element of the law. The first relates to the increase in excise duty on cigarettes. We have already announced this in the preparation of the 2010 budget and for 2011 and in the exit strategy. It is about bringing this law closer or aligning itself with the tobacco directive just adopted, which provides for an increase of excise duty by 1 January 2014 at the latest. By amending the law, we will ensure a gradual increase in excise duty on cigarettes by this time period in the same way as we have been gradually doing this in the previous period. The second amendment concerns excise products, namely energy and alcoholic beverages, by setting the amount of excise duty at a higher level than currently in force, which does not mean that excise duties will be increased at that time. The space left to the Government to regulate and influence its current economic policy in terms of energy and alcoholic beverages prices, as well as the revenue provided for in this Title in the national budget, is changing. It is not about changing the current excise duties, but it is about opening up the space left under the law to the Government. The following amendment concerns electricity excise duties where the taxation of the commercial and non-commercial use of electricity is equivalent. Business use is currently being treated more favourably. Now we'd both be equal. In addition, the next issue brought by law is the removal of the limit value of the refund of excise duty on gas oil, which is proven to be used to drive motor vehicles for commercial use. The instrument was implemented last year as a typical anti-crisis measure in the field of road transport. It has set a limit of 130 euros per thousand litres of gas or diesel consumed, and we are withdrawing this limit of 130 euros for this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Committee on Finance, which considered the proposal to be a working body, will be presented by a member of the Committee, Mr Bogdan Čepič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 14th session. 2. 2010 as a parent working body was treated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties, which was submitted for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 51st session. 1. 2010 decided that the proposal should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text of the proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical context, and forwarded specific comments to 1, 4, 7, 11, 12, 17, 44 and 47 of the legislative proposal. As part of the additional working material, the Committee took note of the comments of the Association for Transport at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia of 10. 2. 2010 Within the open business deadline, the following qualified candidates have tabled amendments: the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on 2. 2. 2010 has tabled an amendment to Article 37 and Article 10. 2. Amendments to Articles 4, 17, 26, 30, 34, 39, 44 and 49 of the legislative proposal; and 5. 2. 2010 coalition SD, Ares, LDS and DeSUS, taking into account the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, as of 1, 3, 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, 17, 37, 43, 47 and new 49a of the legislative proposal. Meetings of the committee were attended by the Minister responsible for Finance with representatives from the Finance Ministry and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the context of the Government's additional explanation given at the meeting of the Committee by the Minister responsible for Finance, it was established, inter alia, that the proposed amendment complements existing solutions within the framework of the applicable principles. In doing so, the main objective is to harmonise our legislation with Europe on the basis of an information-supported system in the field of excise goods movement, while ensuring higher budgetary revenues while slowing down economic growth. The proposal is essentially intended to comply with the general excise duty regime solutions for the implementation of the computerised system of the so-called EMCS, thus establishing a basis for EMCS in our area, which will be operational in the Member States on 1 April 2010. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service, the representative of that service indicated, in view of the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, that the amendments proposed by the Committee to the 16th and 37th amendments followed the comments made. The debate focused on the amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members, in particular on amendments to Articles 4, 30, 37 and 39 of the legislative proposal, on different opinions with individual proposals, such as the proposal to delete Article 54, paragraph 1.2 of the basic law, and raised certain questions. In parallel, government representatives provided justifications for the above-mentioned solutions. Upon further consideration, the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the amendments to Articles 16 and 37. In the context of the hearing, the Committee also adopted amendments from SD, Zres, LDS and DeSUS to 1, 3, 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, 17, 44, and the new 49th Article of the proposed Act. The amendments of the SDS Parliamentary Group to Articles 4, 17, 26, 30, 34, 37, 39, 44 and 49, which were not supported by the representatives of the Government at the hearing, were not adopted by the Committee. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on and adopted individual articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u56	Say good-bye to everyone again! Our parliamentary group will support the amendment of the excise law. In principle, we do not confirm with the ease of proposals for laws that constitute a legitimate means for a country to collect more taxes from its citizens, not at all at a time when we are facing today, when many unemployed families have problems with the existence of life. Representatives of the Government have already ensured that taxes are being raised in the Republic of Slovenia during the period when we are facing the financial and economic crisis, so the state will not continue to impose additional burdens on individuals. The excise duties, however, represent one of the tax burdens. It's a sales tax and goods tax. The government proposes raising excise duty on tobacco products and alcohol, which at first sight denies the government's promise, but in the DeSUS Group we believe that raising this part of excise duty does not constitute a general tax burden. We must take into account the fact that these products do not belong in the basket of basic necessities of life, but represent, we can say, luxury goods. However, as regards the proposed raising of excise duties of individual elements, we must recognise that this is not a real increase in excise duties, but rather a possibility of some kind of manoeuvre in the Government for possible subsequent changes in excise duties. The government already has a legal possibility that the amount of excise duty determined by law will change or rise. In the case of propellant fuels, the amounts are already close to the upper limit, which must not be exceeded. Therefore, the possible non-admission of this bill would practically mean binding deadlines for the Government in order to influence the proposed prices, inflation, economic policy management and also the provision of budgetary revenues by changing excise duties. Members of the DeSUS do not understand this measure by the Government merely as a means of filling the budget register, but rather as an opportunity to regulate the elements of economic policy. However, the key point is that the change in excise duties does not represent an increase in the general tax burden, so it does not burden all taxpayers, but merely consumers of luxury goods. This is the main reason why Members of our Group will contribute to the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u58	We are in the third, as of today, I think that seven very important laws are in the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Excise. As I see that the majority of us are Members, including the mayors, in this Chamber, it is clear how the municipal or state budget can be filled. What content is on the revenue side, both in the local community and at the state level, is also an item called excise duty. At least so much seemed fair to us from the Government that it was fair and that between the objectives and principles of the law in the law on changes and additions to the excise law, it stated that it was about ensuring a higher stable budget income in slowing down economic growth. It's true it's one of the instruments. Nevertheless, at least the Slovenian National Party has examined some of the provisions in detail and has the right to have its own opinion and its own judgment. If we first stop at the fact that the Government has, under Article 66 of the Law, the right to reduce or increase excise duty on propellant fuels by 50% by regulation. So far, the price for gas oil was 320 euros. This is supposed to be compensated under this law, i.e. increased to €460. For gas heating oil, excise duty is expected to increase from €41 to €70 for unleaded motor gasoline from €377 to €490. If it were just this fact that we would decide and say if the country was in a bad state or would thus gain more in the budget, which would then help in other areas people, budgetary consumers, we would not have any comments. In view of the provision that the government may, or have the right to increase or reduce excise duty by 50%, the calculation we have calculated in the Slovenian National Party is, of course, such. So far, the amounts that have been in force, namely €320 for gas oil for fuel and €41 for heating, have already been used by the Government by the regulation. If we adopt this law and allow the Government to raise from 320 to 460, from 41 to 70 and 370 to 490, we will allow the Government to re-apply with a provision of a law allowing it to raise or reduce excise duty by 50%, which would mean that this regulation would actually apply by 100% at this time. The government has this option and could take advantage of it, which we think is far too much in the Slovenian National Party. We understand the hardship, we know that it is right that the excise duty must also be charged with the state treasury, but in such a way, through such manoeuvres to give the possibility of an increase again, we are against such a way, and this is strongly opposed, although the Government claims that it is not so, but we are convinced that this is a basis, some legal basis on which the excise duty will increase, increase and increase. The amount of excise duty on alcoholic beverages is also provided for in order to ensure budgetary revenue. The European Directive is to be based on a European directive which foresees an increase in these excise duties as from 1 January 2014. I do not know if it is good that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is harming the pope more and more than the pope where it harms itself. Here, too, we are opposed to raising excise duties mainly because we are ahead of schedule. And something else is very unfair. It is clear that the aim of raising excise duties on alcohol and tobacco is to increase revenue in the state treasury. We could be so honest. For these reasons, the Slovenian National Party will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting to everyone, including the departing audiences from the balcony. Today we're talking about excise duties. The budget is on the one hand revenue and expenditure. When we talk about spending, we are all united and are happy to support them. But when we talk about revenue, many times the policy is different, but if both ends of the bars are the same length, then it allows for some balance. According to the bill, the main objectives of the law are to establish an information-supported system for the movement and control of excise products, as well as to provide opportunities for higher budgetary revenues in the face of the crisis and for the projected low economic growth. The first objective is to focus most of the law on the implementation of the EU Directive alone, while the other solutions relate to excise duties and related procedures for the reimbursement of excise duties. Here, on the one hand, we need to raise clear questions and also clear answers to these questions as to what we are trying to achieve. It has to be done, even though everyone doesn't like it every moment. This will remove the value limit that will allow the reimbursement of excise duty paid when buying gas oil for commercial purposes up to the minimum excise duty set by European legislation. It is also important that a solution is in place to allow for an additional reduction of excise duty on gas oil used to drive motor vehicles for commercial use of so-called freight vehicles. Such a solution is consistent with the fact that economies are not further burdened and that the proposal for a law does not exclusively pursue the objective of increased excise revenue, but, to a certain extent, it also understands and burdens the economy. At the same time, the fact that the bill also contains provisions on the increase of excise duties on individual energy products does not mean that there are actually higher excise duties. As stated by the Government, it is increasing its room of manoeuvre for possible increases. In accordance with Article 66 of the Law, the government has the possibility to reduce or increase excise duties on fuel fuels, up to 50% of the amounts established by law. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we are aware of the fact that excise burdens are already at high levels, which is also being passed on to final prices. We therefore note that the Government must be extremely careful when regulating these excise duties. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that we must remain competitive with fuel prices in the first place in relation to others, especially neighbouring countries, while also clearly aware of the economic consequences that may result from possible increases in excise duties, and we already have the first warnings in this area on the table. On the other hand, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we do not see great problems in raising excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages and cigarettes. Of course, it would be clear to hide behind a floscule to take care of increasing health awareness, but anyone who knows medical statistics in this area can easily understand that harmful public treasury practices in different areas also cost more. Therefore, it is certainly right that those who cause more costs also contribute more to their solutions. The same as for motor fuels is the case for excise duties on alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, as this is also the case with the regulation of 50 % increase or reduction of excise duty, so that the Government acquires room for manoeuvre in these times of crisis. I am convinced that she must make an effort to use it moderately, especially wisely. We have quite a few concerns and reservations in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, but in the global sense that the law is appropriate and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members and Members! The main part of the bill is intended to comply with the solutions set out in the general excise duty regime Directive in order to establish a computerised system for the movement and control of excise goods of the so-called EMCS, which are mainly technical, by providing the proposal with a re-base for the establishment of EMCS, which will be operational in the EU Member States on 1 April 2010. However, it is certainly the intention of the Government to allow additional stable budgetary revenues, if necessary, with a modest economic growth, by changing the possibility of a larger range of excise duties on alcoholic beverages, tobacco and fuel. This does not mean, however, that excise duties will in particular be changed by the adoption of this law, i.e. increased. The latest increase in excise duties on fuel was established on 28 July 2009. However, all fluctuations around the price of fuel fuels at this time are actually due to price developments on the world market and dollar prices. The excise duties are part of the economic policy and therefore the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, due to the changed economic situation with effect from 1 July 2009, also introduced a distinction in the excise duty on gas oil, given the use for commercial and non-commercial purposes. In these circumstances, the excise duty on gas oil, on motor vehicles for commercial purposes has been reduced accordingly, taking into account the restrictions laid down by European legislation and at the same time the public financial capacity. This was one of the measures from the package proposed by the Government to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in Slovenia. The measure had a direct impact on road transport by reducing the cost of transport of goods and passengers and consequently strengthening the competitiveness of this sector in the European Economic Area. The aim of the proposed law and the amendment of Article 54 of the existing law is to further reduce the excise duty on gas oil, which is to be used to drive motor vehicles for commercial use, i.e. freight vehicles with a total gross mass of 7,5 tonnes or more and which are used for the transport of goods and vehicles belonging to the category M2 or M3 which are used for regular or occasional transport of passengers. The proposed measure will eliminate the value limit on reimbursement of excise duty up to a maximum of EUR 130. In view of the obligations laid down in European legislation that reduced excise duty should still reach at least the minimum excise duty laid down in the Directive, which is from 1. 1. 2010 - €330 per thousand litres of fuel, the amendment of the law will allow for an additional reduction or greater recovery from the existing one only when excise duty is increased above the applicable level or when the difference between the applicable and minimum excise duty determined by European regulations is greater than € 130. Therefore, the deletion of a limit of 130 euros per thousand litres of fuel is extremely important for all those whose transport is an economic activity. The proposal to set excise duty amounts at a higher level by law does not also constitute a proposal to actually increase excise duty. With the proposed amendment of the law, the government would only gain room for manoeuvre for any subsequent increase in excise duties. The cost of fuel prices can also be an important stabiliser of inflation if fuel prices fluctuate in 2010 due to the trend in crude oil prices on global markets. Individual adjustments in energy prices to plus or minus are also expected in the future, resulting from the evolution of oil prices and the value of dollars on global markets. However, the government already has the possibility, under current legislation, that the excise duty on fuels will change up to 50% to plus or minus from statutoryly determined, and this remains in the future, and in this way can have a significant impact on the inflationary effects associated with fuel prices. However, the excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages and the excise duty on cigarettes will be increased, and that has already been said today, and we support that. The Social Democrats' Group of the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors will not support it. The proposed amendment has already rejected the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. In view of all of this, the Group of Members will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on excise duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Istok Podkrižnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. Respectable present. This law opens the door to raising excise duties. Following an assessment of the financial implications of this Title in 2010, the proposer expects several million euro inflows to the state budget, with fuel costs increasing in the last year, placing domestic Slovenian carriers in a significantly poorer position and an uncompetitive situation with other carriers. The excise duties increased over the past year to the extent that there was also no such inflow from this title as could have been from transit and that we had from these trucks which rolled through Slovenia, especially pollution, noise and no income from this title. However, our carriers were significantly more burdened than normal. The proposals have been made in the past year to guide a more rational policy here in such a way that we already have transit and if we do not already tax it with such or otherwise pollution tax, to at least pick up some of it. This has not happened and the substantial burden of this increase in excise duties will also be borne in the future by domestic carriers and our people. This happened last year, and it will happen in the future. This is a policy that is bad and does not help to increase the competitiveness of domestic providers of these services. The effects will be measured by the end of this year. In any case, some who have done certain simulations in this area have estimated that they will not be more effective, but will be smaller, with the domestic population or already significantly more burdened, as you know, and those who cross Slovenia will be burdened only in transit. There are no environmental and other policies under the provisions to be followed. An additional problem is the raising of excise duties on the energy that Slovenians still use to the highest extent. As soon as possible, a gradual transition to renewable resources should be initiated, but not in the manner envisaged now. We believe that a parallel policy of promotion and burden policy should be pursued. Such a proposal only points to an increase in the additional burden, but not to the policy of promoting the transition of households to other sources of energy, is said to be gradual. With this, the government is simply extending tolerance upwards, allowing it to gain greater room of manoeuvre from the limit already used. We therefore propose that, at least in part, this law be rectified by adopting our amendments, which maintain such an increase at the same level as now. We do not support the bill in the parliamentary group, but if our amendments are adopted, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues. The Government has sent to the National Assembly for adoption a proposal to amend the Law on excise duty, which also provides for the raising of excise duty on cigarettes and gives the Government room for manoeuvre to change excise duties on energy and alcohol and alcoholic beverages. The novelty proposal foresees a gradual increase in excise duty on cigarettes. The proposal also foresees that the movement of excise duties on motor fuels and electricity and alcohol and alcoholic beverages be expressed as such. These excise duties will not yet be increased, but give the government a novelty to either increase or lower excise duties according to economic objectives. According to the law, the government can move both ways by 50%. According to the government's assessment, this year's changes will bring €20.8 million to the budget and €16.7 million in 2011. The novelty also provides European provisions for the introduction of a computerised system to monitor the movement of excise goods in the internal market. Tax policy is certainly an important element for the country, as state revenues enable the implementation of the government policy it sets out. This is an instrument by which the Government can influence the extent of consumption, promote investment in the economy or otherwise affect business operations and provide an adequate amount of funding through the budget of certain public financial expenditure. The legal order of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of excise duties is indeed in line with the legal order of the European Union, which advocates the harmonisation of taxes in this area. For countries have harmonised the excise duty system, since the European Union sets mandatory minimum rates for all the most important excise duties from which countries must tax certain products I have already mentioned. With regard to tax rates and exemptions, there are derogations, and therefore, the Government is reminded of the need to look out for tax competition with neighbouring countries in determining excise duties, in particular the increase. Overly high taxes will force people to spend in those environments that will be more beneficial to them. Nevertheless, in order to ensure the sustainability of the budget and the smallest possible public financial deficit, we will support the proposal for a new law. However, in the Group of Members, we will not really support the amendments to the amended bill, which is Articles 17 and 37. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u68	Respectable. Changes and additions to the excise law. According to the proposaler, the aim of the law ahead of us is to fully align national legislation with European legislation with the introduction or introduction of a computerised system for the movement and control of excise goods in the internal market and to ensure higher stable budgetary revenues for slow economic growth. With the first objective in the Slovenian People's Party, we have no problems and we fully support it. However, as regards the objective of providing higher budgetary revenues, we are not convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that the solutions are the most appropriate. One is the solution to the increase in excise duties on stock, alcohol, alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, which we do not oppose in the Slovenian People's Party, since these are products that are directly and indirectly in Slovenian society as a whole and to individual citizens and citizens that cause much damage and grief. Therefore, according to our assessment, the restrictive effect of the consumption of these products due to the raising of excise duties is justified and, in fact, desirable. From the point of view of the country, the impact on the provision of the budgetary revenue under this heading should be, in fact, of secondary importance, although it is certainly welcome. The second is the area of changing the amounts of energy consumption. The applicant himself notes that, given the amounts set out in the applicable law and the possibility provided for in Article 66 of the Act to amend these amounts by 50%, the Government of Fuel and Gas Oil is already very close to the upper limit, which cannot be exceeded by the regulation or has already been achieved. Of course, the fact that new excise duty amounts are determined by law at a higher level does not in itself mean a real increase in excise duty, but gives the Government room for manoeuvre. In the Slovenian People's Party, we cannot agree that an unlimited amount of money can be diverted through oil derivatives into the state budget. The unlimited lifting of excise duties after long and fast cannot produce the right effect, as the matter may break and break at a certain point. It's not true, as the government claims, that the price of derivatives will not change. The price changes every two weeks due to the changing prices of oil derivatives on the world market. It is only true that the government can no longer increase the amount of excise duty because in one year they have reached the maximum. As a result, prices of petroleum derivatives have even decreased in the previous alignment. In the Slovenian People's Party, we oppose such a government excise policy, which considers excise duties on oil derivatives to be a bag from which the state budget is unlimitedly filled. Restrictions and restrictions exist for users of these derivatives, nationals and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, whose use of these derivatives is necessary for the performance of their daily family and life obligations. Not to mention, for a long time his income has not increased at the rate that the Government has taken in raising these excise duties. Unless an amendment is adopted to Article 37 of this Act, which attempts to prevent this increase of excise duty, we will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. Article 17 first.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Article 17 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party shall be discussed. Anybody want to talk about it? I note that no one wants to discuss this amendment, so I am closing the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Members, the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's been a call from the discusser. Please, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Then Mr. Istok Podkrižnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings, Secretary of State! The purpose of this law is to gradually raise excise duties, because the Government has not been able to do anything else about excise duties than to raise them and thus burden Slovenian consumers or anyone who buys fuel indefinitely in Slovenia. So the Borut Pahor government inherited from the previous excise duty on fuel at the lowest level, as permitted by this Directive of the European Union and, of course, Slovenian legislation. During a period of one year and something else, during the economic crisis, which is moving increasingly towards the social sphere, the government raised these excise duties practically to the sky, to the maximum permissible limits. And now these boundaries are no longer enough, and he wants to raise them with this novel. This, of course, aims to raise excise duties gradually, probably hidden more or less, to the public's eyes, and thus to tax in addition practically all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who in one way or another are using for their lives, operations and the work of propulsion fuels. Today transport by car is no longer a superstandard, some luxury, but the life necessity of all, including the one with the minimum wage, and also the one on the edge of the social abyss. That is why I believe that the Government should have a throbbing hand in excise policy, as some say with a constitution, and see how it burdens people and to what extent. I will not repeat, or also, the difference that we see in the opposition's visa of the Government in the field of tax inflows to the state budget. I am convinced that it is not only possible to raise tax rates to pursue tax revenue increases in the budget. I believe that it is also possible to do so by depriving the economy of taxes and collecting more due to more created ones. The government has never followed that logic with any action. It is always followed by other logic, raise taxes, excise duty, or even the price of vineyards, and think that this way more money will come into the state budget. Here the government doesn't take into account the danger that can happen to it in the first test, it's a vignette test. The big question, Your Honor, in the government, is whether because of practically double prices you will actually pick up more money in Dars' cash register. It can happen that many who have so far bought vineyards due to low prices will now, of course, use side roads, do not drive on highways and will consequently be less sold vineyards and less income. That can happen. And the same is true of others, as we say today, of excise fuel. The question is whether, with such manoeuvres, this is called continuous tax hikes, regardless of whether or not the consequences of this are being analysed, actually achieves that fiscal objective, that is to raise revenue in the budget. In doing so, I cannot help but overlook the impact of raising these excise duties on the standard of living of people who, due to the loss of jobs, are already at risk because of the harassment of other services. This is not the right approach and denies and puts forward the President's announcements to the current government, as well as others who are concerned about economic policies, that the government will not raise taxes. At the same time, he keeps lifting them up. Take a look at the example of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. We have now read that those producers who manufacture mainly cars in the lower or middle classes have also raised prices. See, only by implementing the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which entered into force a few days ago did the French car manufacturer Renault subvert his vehicles on the Slovenian market by 2.3%. Do you know what the majority of vehicles sold in the Republic of Slovenia is in this manufacturer? Vehicles in lower or middle class. These, too, are irritated, although we have heard here a whole series of predictions that these vehicles, mainly for the lower and middle classes, will be cheaper to see those luxury cars, those ugly big cars with which to drive Slovenia's "Japans", become irritated. On the contrary, smaller vehicles have also also been irritated. For example, Renault Clio 1.2 has risen by about 2% from €10 000 to €10,200. This is from today's newspapers. If you don't believe them, please deny them. What am I trying to say? I want to say that, with the constant promise that taxes will not increase, only these are increasing, and today's Law on Excise is this case. There is a wide room for manoeuvre to the government to increase excise duties on propulsion fuels. It will also increase excise duties on the megawatt hour of electricity consumed and so on. Why, Your Honor, have you not also reduced the excise duty and analyzed how these raised excise duties in your government's mandate affect people's living standards? You will find that the impact of excise duties is greater than the effect of raising minimum wages. As much as you've raised your excise duties, you've put more financial burden on the one, I'd say, the worker or the one who's really struggling, how to survive from month to month, and the more he's going to get that raised minimum wage. And these are measures within your jurisdiction without any other major negotiating need with the social partners. I do not think anyone would be against this in the Republic of Slovenia if excise duties were reduced, but not increased. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that an amendment be made to this end, that this should not be allowed to rise and that what you promise to do is actually respected, that the tax burden will not be tightened and that taxes will remain at or at the same level as before. Sire, I ask you again, if these measures are exit strategies, then God help Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Because I did not report only notifications that they have applied for the debate Istok Podkrižnik, Rado Likar, Happy Friend, Marijan Bezjak, State Secretary Helena Kamnar and Mag. Radovan Žerjav. The word has the Istok Podkrižnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u73	President, thank you for your word. This law actually opens this door to raising excise duties even more. And I think that this is actually not good for the way out of this situation in Slovenia and all of Europe. The burdens of businesses and the rest of the population, I think, are already too high with these excise duties. In fact, being competitive here and somehow being open to foreign investment, I don't think this is the best thing for Slovenia. I think that, in fact, the government should somehow go to other receptions, the real bigger subsidies allow for the very renewable resources themselves. This I think would be a good suggestion, because here I think we are doing very little in this area and we are lagging behind. It would make sense, somehow, to take this policy along parallel lines, so that as much as we would put subsidies into these renewable sources, we would also, somehow, increase excise duties if we did. I don't think it's a good time right now. I would suggest that you support this amendment, because it will help our economy from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support this amendment to Article 37 proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party because it does not seem appropriate to increase excise duties at a time of slow economic growth. Because we know that both the economy and the population or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are already suffocating in taxes on their income. The government will certainly have an opportunity to increase excise duties, even though it claims it will not. In addition, the limit to which the Government will be able to reduce excise duties under the regulation giving it this option will be increased. Of course, it is not said that there will be an immediate increase, but the trend points to this, and this option exists mainly because the government has burned the entire reserve of excise duties already in this year, in the period when the Pahor government was in power. For example, the limit of excise duty on propellant fuels has already been used. In addition, the increase in excise duties will significantly reduce the competitiveness of our, Slovenian, car carriers. And as has already been said today, it has not ensured that the increase in excise duties will also increase the inflow to the state budget, it can be the same or even smaller. In fact, we know that the motorists who, in transit, drive through our country, will pump fuel in neighbouring Austria, cross our territory and pump fuel in the next country. This excise policy does not seem appropriate to me, so I will vote in favour of deleting this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot manage public finances. If we are talking about what we are now accepting, then this amendment is crucial and must be supported. Finances, as a central newspaper that is supposed to meet on budget and public spending, talk about the deficit being about 5.5 billion and that Slovenian state cash registers in the black scenario are looking forward to difficult times. I understand that it is necessary to fill the state treasury intensively, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way. Again, the smallest person who doesn't have enough to warm up, who doesn't already have enough to warm up, is going to have to pay 40% more. If we look at foreign carriers, the peaceful souls will continue to pollute our environment and the state will not tax them with an ecological tax. You are talking about the fact that we must, of course, be European comparable and that we have a legal order in the field of excise duties in line with the European acquis. That is true, but Slovenia still does not have an ecological fee for foreign trucks today, and we know that convoys and convoys are on the border every day. To avoid the collection of money here, of course, it is a kind of economic damage that the Prime Minister consciously causes and the Government and bureaucrats keep their eyes closed before they do not want to see it. We have pointed out these facts in the National Assembly a thousand times, and today we have the consequence that it is expected that, here is what was 13.3% already in January, essentially tax revenue was lower than projected and we already have 1.7 billion, I will say, budget deficits. The agencies are growing as if by the current tape and state bureaucracy is thick as if they were in Dubai. It's like they're in Dubai, where there's surpluses at home, where there's capital at home. So let's get a little sober. Mr. Pahor has lost his compass because he no longer has the right direction. And you're putting bills on a little man. And this time you'll do it. Heating with excise duty will increase 40% as well as energy for us car users by that much. To patch up this deficit, of course, this will not work, because in fact the Greek script and, of course, the Croatian script will also happen in Slovenia. If Croatia is in front of bankruptcy with such a regime, Slovenia will be soon. And I would just like to say that you can play with the patience of an individual, but I assure you that this patience of an individual is getting smaller and smaller. It's getting smaller. And today Mr. Pahor should also be here to tell people why he's doing what he's doing, because it's just bullshit. It is not the only increase per individual, this excise duty, we have raised everywhere, in fact it is also known in the basket of living expenses, it is also known in education, in health care, in other areas. We stop social transfers, and what's interesting, respected colleagues and colleagues, we're paying for the week. We pay for waiting at home, we pay for short hours of work, instead of investing in more purchasing power to invest in new jobs to strengthen the tax field, from which we know only the harvest, and nothing to invest. In short, the world is wrong. And if you continue to do so, then we will come to a lower level than Albania is today, and when people are on the road, the left-oriented unions will no longer help you. Trust me. Because patience, as has already been said, is getting smaller. And with that, tolerance. Of course, we will not support this law unless this amendment is adopted. However, the government should immediately prepare a proposal for the introduction of an environmental tax and start collecting this tax, which is very large for Slovenians and Slovenians in the quality of their stay. And if you do not do so, you are also responsible for this economic damage, which is greater from day to day. For the money which is offered to you alone cannot be collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word is Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. With the excise law, we are additionally burdening the Slovenian economy and making the Slovenian economy uncompetitive on the European or global market. Last year, when we had already raised the excise rate on energy, on fuels, we left a very black mark in Slovenia, because much less money had run into the state treasury than could have been otherwise. Just from this point of view, because, as the predecessors have already said, all transit across Slovenia leaves only pigs in Slovenia. In fact, domestic carriers, carriers of the Slovenian economy, are becoming uncompetitive, resulting in unfair competition on the Slovenian market. Transport companies from other countries - Slovakia, Romania and Croatia come to the Slovenian market. I see no reason for the state to fill or increase its revenue into the state treasury, as these things add to the burden and destruction of the Slovenian economy. I agree to extra taxation and increase excise duties on alcohol, on those spirits, spirit, and what is harmful to health. Like other countries, for example Sweden. This will make the lives of citizens and citizens better. Not with the additional burden of excise duty on all energy consumers to receive additional costs in Slovenia all the inhabitants of Slovenia, including those who lost their jobs yesterday. I do not see a way out where these citizens will be able to take money and pay bills, fuel, energy, electricity and so on for these additional burdens of all citizens, let alone for this economy, where there are many businesses on the line. Construction companies are also envisaged at present. In construction companies, you need to know that all companies are more than 70% bound than energy. With this, we will accelerate, perhaps these companies will not go bankrupt at the end of the year, but these companies will probably go bankrupt tomorrow. It is therefore important to reconsider and adopt our proposed amendment to Article 37, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party and which we have accepted for the benefit of the citizens of Slovenia, the well-being of the economy which is in a major crisis at this time. I believe that the State Treasury is empty and that the country's debt from day to day is greater. But believe me, with these moves there is no step towards filling the state treasury, but it is a step towards the greater abyss of the state treasury. In Slovenia, instead of an ecological state, instead of a country on the sunny side of the Alps, we will get a country of the Balkans, a country of pigland. This is already done by people, foreigners who are going across our country in transit across Slovenia. I don't think we should allow this, and there are many other effects that can be made to fill the state treasury rather than to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the words spoken in connection with the management of excise policy should be responded to. See, excise policy is governed by this government, as led by the previous government, by a model of prices that is the same and actually adapts to what oil is like. If oil is auctioned, then, as a rule, excise duty is reduced to maintain the price, the retail price remains as close as possible to what it is and remains stable. While there are minor fluctuations up and down, as has been the case in previous years or in the past mandate, if we must always do these comparisons now, the policy is clearly exactly the same. It is true, however, that the situation on the oil market has changed considerably. While the prices of oil were extremely high at the time of global economic growth, of course the space for excise duty was very low and therefore excise duties were very low, prices were still higher, retail prices, as they were on average in last year. Of course, if we look at individual periods, situations are different, depending on several factors. We have factors, if I limit myself to oil derivatives, I think that was actually the most talk about this. This government runs a excise duty policy on oil derivatives in such a way that the retail price of petroleum derivatives is as comparable as possible to those in neighbouring countries. In order to prevent the purchase of more fuel in neighbouring countries and thus to prevent the negative impact on the domestic budget. As regards excise duties on the economy or on the road transport industry, this has been repeatedly mentioned. Last year, you passed a law to return excise duties to a certain extent to self-transporters in order to facilitate their situation and not to reduce their competitive capacity as a result of any increase in excise duties. With the amendment of the law before you, we are even lifting the limit, which means that this limit can also go up to more than 130 euros per litre. Work machinery and construction machinery have a 50% reduction in excise duties. It also applies to agricultural machinery. This is the first, two key industries that are very involved in energy consumption under a particularly favourable regime to avoid being affected. It's about the elevator we're putting in law. Today, we have the situation that the legal level of excise duties is increased by less than 50% in accordance with the government regulation, but we are using this space to move properly to what I have described earlier. We estimate that it is appropriate for this height to rise and can still be lowered below this limit, because the Government, by its regulation, can set 50% at the legal level and 50% below the legal level. Therefore, the actual objective at this point in the field of our derivatives is to open up the room for manoeuvre and leave the possibility of the government's influence through policies, which are also managed in other sectoral areas. It's just about lowering taxes. In fact, even last year and this year, we listen on every occasion to how the government should reduce taxes. If we are looking at the amount of our indirect taxes and if we are considering social security contributions, then at this height we are totally no different from European countries, but we are somewhere on an average level. The same applies to direct taxes. Look, the cases you've described, Mr. Visjak, we've reduced the car tax. And what was the reaction? Traders have raised prices. What's the reaction if we lower the tax somewhere else? We cannot regulate the market. We have a market economy and it is normal for manufacturers and sellers to act in such a way as to take advantage of the space offered by another measure, including a tax reduction measure. That's not what the government can do. At best, not unless we go administratively to determine prices, which we did not even do in self-government socialism when we had administrative management of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to give the word "magic." A cheerful crane, then a mag. A visionary and Bogdan Chapich. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I also agree with such a excise policy, particularly with regard to oil derivatives. We've seen her before in history. I myself have been actively involved in this activity, but I know that at the time we stopped the only refinery in Slovenia with stupid excise policy, because there was a question of 2 tolar per litre to update the refinery, or not, 2 tolar per litre. Count it, 2 tolars per liter was then the question whether we would leave this refinery or not, but today we would have our own refinery and not. Like I said, I just don't agree with that. Today, we are opening the door to the possibility that, of course, the law will be passed so that we can raise excise duties on oil derivatives by a new 50%. So far, we've come to the limit when it's no longer possible. It must be said that in the past we have kept excise duty at a minimum due to the high prices of crude oil. But it is also true that so far, I do not remember ever letting go of the excise, but we keep lifting it. Despite the fact that crude oil has been growing on the world market for some time now and will continue to grow, it is likely. It's hard to say that now oil is about to start falling again. It's fallen and it's growing again. Nevertheless, we are opening up the possibility of raising these oil derivatives. However we turn, it is a burden on the economy, even if some activities have the possibility of, as you would say, a 50% reduction, but 50% of a base, and if this base is higher, it is also 50% higher. So it's a burden on the economy, transport, construction, energy, and I don't know who else. It's a burden of physical persons, all of us. A while ago we talked about minimum wages, not long ago, now we are talking about how we will raise oil derivatives, so of course all of us who use transport resources will pay more. I don't think that's a good thing, and anyway, whether it's a good thing or not, we need to start unloading the economy. This case that the Secretary of State gave me, I don't know, seems inconclusive. We're having some bad stories. It happened to us Gorenje, it happened to us Mura and so on. Why? Workers have low wages. Because companies simply cannot pay higher wages because they are too burdened. So... we have a very expensive country. But saving doesn't do us any good. In the exit strategy we predicted 400 million at the annual level. Nine billion is 4.4%, please. If we're not able to save any more, it won't be good. It will open up such excise policies and the current situation, when the prices of oil derivatives are just printed, both in Austria and in Croatia cheaper crusts with us, i.e. the retail price is lower than in Slovenia. It's a little higher in Italy, but it's really a nuance in Hungary. I don't remember when there were lower prices for retail oil derivatives in Austria than they are now. When was the last time? I don't remember, so I've been doing this for 15 years. It's rare. The question of transit is raised. That was already open today. I believe that we should be guided by excise policy in a way that will or will not take all this transit through Slovenia to fuel in Slovenia, not in Italy and not in Croatia, not in Austria. That's the kind of policy we should be leading. Given that trucks will cross our country in one way or another, they will cause pollution, cause the highways to be destroyed and so on. So it is necessary to achieve that fuel will be pumped into Slovenia to collect excise duties from them. I am not sure that spending-extreme policy also means more revenue in the state budget. Let us sometimes make smart calculations on this subject and see if such a policy is the right one; or whether we are not interested in it, this policy is only meant to fill the budget as much as possible, but we are simply not interested in the background. Where are our motorists? That's what I'm interested in. I remember, just before the election, I was almost skinned as a minister, by the way. And we didn't talk about drastic tolllifting, but we didn't talk about raising excise duties, and so on. That's when they squeezed us all in order, me and my fellow Visian, for what we're going to lower, I don't know what kind of relief we're going to lower the tolls, for what we're going to lower one, the other, the third, the fourth. Over the past year, we've been talking only about how we're going to lift up, and there's no one anywhere. Is this where politics comes in? In the Automobile Chambers? I don't understand. Once again, we are against this kind of excise policy because we think it is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In defense of this law, the Secretary of State said something that was very unconvincing. She said that excise policies adapt to prices so that they do not fluctuate too much on the market, given the change in prices of crude oil or derivatives. In February or March 2009, it is said that about a year ago the price of crude oil was $40 per barrel. Today it's about 80 bucks a barrel. So the price went up twice. If excise policies were to be adapted, then excise duty should be reduced at that time in order to mitigate the impact of the rise in crude oil prices on the price of retail fuel, this has not happened. On the contrary, now that the price of oil is rising, at least in the last year it has opened up and the government's greater manoeuvre space to raise excise duties, not to lower excise duties. So the first reason is totally over. If it were true that the government adapts excise duties to prices that do not fluctuate, then prices would not fluctuate, retail prices, look at what we would watch, because we know when we pour fuel that prices are constantly swinging up, down and that the government has never released excise duties, but very much like to raise them. So, it is not true, Your Honor, the basic objective of this law is how to fill the state budget on the shoulders of those who buy fuel. That's the point. The aim is to "flash" an unknown budget hole, which otherwise this government cannot "flash" through additional tax burdens. However, the biggest misinterpretation I have heard here today is that due to the Tax Law on Motor Vehicles, the prices of new cars, the Renaults, for example, have been strained and that this ugly Renault has raised retail prices not because of the tax but because of its policy. Look, respectable, at least, if this is true, in the interest of public information, I appeal to you to respond to the articles that are in the Slovenian newspaper on this subject, because all those who have raised prices excuse themselves for being taxed. Dismantle them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. I am sure that excise duties are part of the economic policy implemented by this government and implemented by the previous government. If we remember that the previous government did not raise excise duties because the price of fuel was extremely high, because if it were to raise excise duties, it would not be inflation 6.5, but it would be much higher, and therefore it is part of an economic policy that is now being implemented and implemented at that time, and it is the same. It is necessary to have some relationship, some possibility because energy is one of the most important elements of price determination. Let us just listen to the statistical reports when they speak, when, and in whatever way, something appears or is exhilarating. The current policy of this government is no different than that of the countries surrounding us in the euro area. Mr Žerjav said earlier that only Croatia and Austria are slightly cheaper. But he probably doesn't remember because he was too young at the time, in the early 1980s, when it happened, that Austria was also cheaper at the fuel and we went there because we had measures in Yugoslavia at the time, couple- couple, vouchers, and I don't know what else, because we had the fuel that was gold then, not black oil. Of course, it's a lot of scheming when we talk about how the government manages matters with these excise duties. This bill, which we have already adopted on the Committee, clearly states that in July 2009 the last excise duty, i.e. a good half-year or 7 months ago, was changed. At that time, a measure was also taken to enable transport operators to pay slightly lower excise duties. My colleague Bezjak, who is a large carrier, has many trucks and is a beneficiary of this, he could tell on behalf of honesty how much he saved and how much more favourable it was to do business because the state had reduced the excise duty and made it possible to do better in these tight conditions. No, he would rather leave the hall now, because he was not pleased to hear it, and because he had shaken up a bunch of lies and falsehoods when he was talking about excise matters. That is why this law must be adopted and given the opportunity to derogate from it. Therefore, the amendment, which deletes the raising of excise duty, is unacceptable, even for all those for whom a possible increase in excise duty, which is still possible, would mean easier and better business, in order to have more reliefs than EUR 130; this is also stated in this law. As to whether trucks that pollute Slovenia in their transit - I am not talking about domestics, but also foreign carriers - should also be fueling Slovenia and thus filling the budget. Yeah, we'd probably fill it up, but we'd increase the emissions at the same time. How is CO2 emissions calculated in Slovenia? Based on the fuel sold, based on this. And here's the problem, because you could actually be punished twice with low excise duty and environmental charging fees. Otherwise, I support the view that there is a need to have additional resources so that we can introduce more environmentally friendly ways of heating, fuel and so on, and finance it. But remember, I think it was in January or February, at the price correction of petroleum derivatives, now it's already been introduced in, and I think it's a cent or a half or something because we added fuel, and what the government has proposed, and no one has noticed that this would have had a lot of impact on the price of fuel. Even some types of fuels have been valued at this point. Therefore, it is so easy to talk about excise duties that it is so easy to talk about some of these things. The excise duties are part of the economic policy that it implements are the adjustment mechanism, even for the budget that is charged when, of course, this is possible and is comparable to neighbouring countries and, of course, it does not make sense for us to have oil or fuel for 50 cents and elsewhere they have it for the euro. I'm making up a number. Which means we'd just invite everyone here in this way just to pour here. Perhaps part of the economic activity involved would be somewhat more successful, but on the other hand there would be much more problems that would arise, including the fact that this is an important source of public funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Wait a minute. Renata Brunskole, mag. Radovan Žerjav and Franci Kek. Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. First time. Now I really don't understand. Since yesterday, and today, why is it necessary to express different opinions and try to find a solution to the two political options? And they use one and the other to fight all the means, only to deny what the other says. Stop it. We ask you kindly. In the end, you will be as much as any common man. The excise duties are European comparable and the wages are not. Put that in your head, too. That's the kind of thing that really pisses you off when we're trying to find a solution. All you have to do is find a solution. Maybe we're doing the government's wrong, I'd really like to know why it's specifically proposed in Article 37 from 320 to 460, about 40%. Why isn't 360 out of 320, I don't know? Why 40% raise? Why deny the truth that this is the basis on which the Government will build the right referred to in Article 66 and raise it again by 50% and we will come last if we take 50% of 460 is 230, we are already at 700 and so on. Why can't we just say that? That's not how it works. I also have one proposal.Look, the problem of lowering excise duties due to an increase in the price of petroleum derivatives, but let's agree for one period of six months, set a fixed price for fuel, and let these fluctuations bring either more money into the register or just one hole, so that the government will not reduce excise duty now because the price is rising or vice versa. Let's get a fixed price for one period, and we'll see what we can get out of this. As for what it is, I agree with my colleague Visian in saying that it is necessary to say to these car manufacturers, but now, deny your claims that because of the tax on motor vehicles you have raised prices and here, if this is true if we are lowering taxes and manufacturers are raising prices, but I am the first to agree here or who would like to tell Mrs Kamnar that we are actually going into administrative price regulation because this is absurd, but this is already the global absurd that producers are raising prices at a reduced rate at a time like today. That's what some fool does, not just from us, but from the government. Hours and hours are experts who are looking for solutions for all, for two million Slovenians, and for 90 Members, I do not know how many employees in the government. Such people make fun of each other, and today we have the right to say that the way to raise excise duties by 40% is just like that, and we all know that this is the basis for further lifting, but it's not possible because we're going to come up with such amounts that we're going to tear down the whole system. One common solution needs to be found. If we look at Article 35, I have to mention it because it is the same as raising excise duties, I don't know why, if we follow the directive of Europe, the European Directive says that these excise duties are specifically tobacco, are being raised as of 1 January 2014? Why hasn't the European Directive been written since 2011? We probably already have some calculation and they have some kind of economic policy on the basis of which they build and set a deadline of 2014. And why shouldn't Slovenia stick to it? It's probably some sort of balance. Slovenia, if it goes now with the increase in excise duty and, of course, takes advantage of Article 66, yes, when this excise duty enters into force in Europe, Slovenia will be able to lower prices seven more times and wait 20 years for us to reach that European level. These are our comments that we want to help the Government to help people, not just talk, but the excise duties are necessary. Of course they are, because we know that the Treasury needs money and that this is one of the sources. However, other sources are, and I conclude, but income taxes are also, especially those that have been put in their pockets by tycoons in recent years, and I say loud and clear, and they have not paid taxes to date.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Since I come from an area where there are many people from Dolenjska, White landscape and Posavje, how much more, as well as wider from the Republic of Slovenia, still depend on the largest and only car manufacturer, Revoz Novo mesto. Therefore, I don't care what the debate is like here today and what the public debate is like, because people who depend on this company and who get paid from there, with every public statement that is different, care and care. That is why I am, and I am not, either, and that is why I came directly to the President of the Board of Directors of Revoz. Today, and now for a few days at the car salon in Geneva and of course at Revoz, I would like to congratulate Revoz on producing the Wind vehicle in New Town, a new vehicle that has also been presented to the public on this showroom in these days. However, let me read Renault’s point of view with regard to some of the interpretations of some colleagues that it was related to amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act and also to taxation specifically, Renault Clio 1.2. So, we know what the debate was about before, but I'm just going to read Renault's point of view. "Renault is with 1. 3. 2010 car prices Renault adjusted the new market situation and raised them on average by 2.3%, depending on the model. That is why we have decided to mitigate the impact of the tax on motor vehicles on models that would be most encouraged." End of quote. Renault’s position of 3. 3. 2010 at 11.40 a.m. So that I, who here in the debates, would not change things and, in any other way, interpret that Renault Clio 1.2 had to be influenced by this government. Please, let's not be incorrect, let's be realistic, let's say what's true, not people who are "sorry" about their jobs, so that they'll be worried that this is what this was about. Let's not do this. However, the Secretary of State has made it very clear, sufficiently understandable, that every company - we live in a market economy - and also the price increases of vehicles are a business decision of companies. Therefore, we know in concrete terms that once again, the specific Clio 1.2 vehicle did not need to be encouraged. However, this can be a business decision by the company, specifically Renault Nissan Slovenia, to encourage this vehicle. However, from this point of view, Renault understands that this has mitigated impressions in some higher-priced vehicles. So Renault Clio 1.2 didn't get upset, and it should be inspired by this government. That we're clear. Not even for the conclusions and decisions of the National Assembly. I think that the public is in this way well aware of the truth, and what is the misdirection and reading of this government, this coalition, this opposition. Do we all live here together? Let's understand each other and be right to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you wanted to help Renaul, you'd rather not say it. That's my personal opinion, but let's just leave it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u94	Please, no replicas from the bench without my approval.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u95	I would not mix tax policy or any former Yugoslavia with the pricing policy we have in this country. Then, unfortunately, there were no oil derivatives at all, if you remember, I remember, too, so they were a couple - odd because there was simply no oil. Mixing those policies and then the other ones, and the vouchers, and I don't know what we had with the formation of oil derivatives prices like today, I don't think it's very comparable. As it is now, we have had it for several years, maybe 15 years, not since the beginning of this country's creation. The fact that last July the excise duty was raised, of course, yes, because it can no longer be lifted because we are on the ceiling. This is precisely why we are talking today about allowing ourselves to continue raising excise duties in the future, in the fact that we have found that the price of oil is rising. The price of crude oil on the world market has been rising for some time. And there are no clues like that or any other to fall in the future. However, it has been explained to us that this is a price policy tool in the field of oil derivatives, to maintain a constant comparable price policy for oil derivatives with neighbouring countries. So, let's be precise. And one more thing. CO2 was also mentioned. CO2 tax on the formation of oil derivatives prices has nothing. As I know it's made up of the trader's price, then comes the excise duty, the membership fee for oil reserves and VAT. There's just no other way around here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. The law is worthy of support. Indeed, we are faced with the budget gap created during this government, but also by the actions of the previous government. It is the responsibility of the State to bring some funds into the budget in a way that is difficult for people, many live in a way that is sustainable. Those who buy fuel in retail know that these fuels during the time of this government have never been more expensive than under the previous government. Of course, this does not depend solely on excise duties, including the price of oil. And since the price of oil is not that high right now, excise duties may be higher. As for Revoz, it is only right that Revoz himself should say as she claimed and explain to us what Renata Brunskole thinks.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss both amendments to Article 37? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the third stage of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public procurement in water, energy and transport and the field of postal services within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. We have two public procurement laws ahead of us. First general law and second law on public procurement in the field of water and electricity. I would ask you if you could give my introduction to the fact that it relates to both marriages because they are substantively connected so that it would not make sense for me to speak twice. From the first reading to today, the law has undergone some minor changes, but significant substantive changes are not in the law that is before you today for adoption. The essential novelties of the law, which relate in particular to increasing transparency in the functioning of the public procurement system and to the fact that the individual procedures that have been shown to be under-defined in the law's implementation practice so far, have contributed to their ability to implement them better and more consistently, which will also help to reduce the procedures of the public procurement itself and of the smaller appeals delays. The contents of the law relate to the termination of the procedure for the collection of three tenders, the increase in the threshold relevant to the application of the law itself, the regulation of the obligations of direct payments to subcontractors, the regulation of the list of tenderers with negative references, the extension of criminal provisions for contracting entities, tenderers and subcontractors. The anti-corruption clause proposed in the first reading has changed in content so that it is in fact almost identical to the one in the original text of the law. We are more precisely regulating the publication and introduction of a new publication form. More specifically, the arrangements relating to the framework agreement and the dynamic purchasing system are laid down to limit the verification of capacity only to tenderers who have submitted the most favourable offer. In fact, we are also simplifying the procedure a little bit, but we are also introducing new thresholds for the procurement procedures used since 1. 1. 2010 which comply with the rules of the European Union. We are introducing another novelty, this is the education of all those who will deal with public procurement and the acquisition of a certificate, because in this way we would like to improve the quality of public procurement and, of course, contribute to a more cost-effective management of public funds. The law, which is submitted or both laws which are submitted, is at present inconsistent, namely the general law in Articles 11 and 49, and the Law in the field of water, energy, transport and postal services in Articles 10 and 52. It will therefore be necessary to bring the law into line with the harmonisation amendment after the third reading has been completed. I suggest you support the law in the text as it is presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives. I am sure, and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party also that the Government with this law, i.e. with both laws, will talk about both, has good intentions, has good will and wanted to do something good. And I hope that most of the solutions contained in this law show the same, and that is why we will support it in the Slovenian National Party. We will support it because we understand that the following objectives are being achieved in this law: rationalising public procurement procedures, reducing administrative costs in public procurement. This is about, I hope, reducing the deadlines in public procurement procedures as well as increasing transparency in public procurement. Four important content that the Government, I believe, wanted to acquire through this law. Also, the anti-corruption clause is a new and quality and good acquisition for us if only, I say, is properly implemented, carried out and that those who lie by providing data will be punished. In order not to be penalized, however, those who are simply elements required, but at the moment, and such builders are large, do not meet, but are proven to be good performers with their references. Of course, like every law, this law will lead to approval on one side and opposition on the other. We talked a lot about the criteria on the working body. Whether to follow European, refugee criteria, where the main element in selecting a quality operator is to be, or to remain in a fugitive practice in a country, the Republic of Slovenia, where the price should be that which would be the main element or element that has the most weight to help choose operators. In one case or another, they'll be looking for holes. Those who prefer to have a price will complain if there is quality, those who love quality will complain as soon as someone else is chosen, if we are more favourable. They were lumbars, and they will be. In the case of the price element and in the case of public procurement, some have paid lower prices in order to be selected and then uninterrupted with the Annexes at a price that another tenderer has also given and may not have changed. I hope we can end this. As far as public procurement is concerned, here's what I'd like to say. So we support this law, but at the same time we would very much like to see public procurement as an economic category and not a legal category. I stress this because of what I have already said, because we obviously have a legal category, because for every deal that someone makes with someone, it is one way or another in court; and if not on the State Audit Commission, it is in court. Because the law thus far allowed them to complain over each other, and the work did not fail. And I hope these laws are over. And then, if someone chooses someone who's more expensive, because the only thing the Seeker wants is in court or in review, czech, "has collected the only one who has it, he's already bribed." Here we are again on the other bank, where world stupidity is happening, when he has not chosen me, from practice I speak, but he offers, we are on the issue of quality, pure common goods, as is offered by everyone who can 20% at the price of swinging. I hope this law will solve these elements. For now, as I understand it, this European element will stand, so that quality should be a guarantee of choice. And another question I don't know how to solve is the question of contractors and subcontractors. I am basically personal, and my colleagues in the party are convinced that it would be right that the contractor is an operator and that this contractor has determined all transactions with subcontractors itself that he is legally obliged to settle and pay all contractual transactions to this subcontractor, of course. And here we see that the Ministry of Finance, which is already the most burdened in this time of crisis, has had to deal with these issues and is still dealing with these issues because the rule of law is sleeping with us. They work instead of the Ministry of Justice, which does not act as soon as the performer, who has been chosen on the basis of his contract with subcontractors, does not settle accounts, "tighten them", as it were, and plays with them mouse and cat games. And based on the fact that there's bad work at the Ministry of Justice in this country, it's the Ministry of Finance. This is the cancer that we see; but I know that this law will probably not solve this issue again. It offers one option where, by agreement, the contractor and the subcontractor can also conclude a contracting relationship, so that it is known who will be the subcontractor to the public operator, which, of course, is not good again, because in the middle of anything, and then there is no other option for the contractor himself. But once again, all of this is because of the bad work of the Ministry of Justice. And I'm sorry the Ministry of Finance has to handle things like this. This is not their job, but perhaps such content is not even part of the Public Procurement Act, I am talking about the general law, or this law. The Slovenian national party will support this law. But it is also daytime that you think about burdening yourself and telling a few others what else to do so that we will not meet here more than at home with the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all, and above all to the representatives of the Ministry! Of course, public procurement is always a real and live thing. The circumstances, market relations and practices always show something new and it was not and there will be no law that can predict all situations in advance. But it is certainly one thing that we must act as realistically as possible in this area as possible and that, as everywhere in this area, the best law is the law of common sense. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we supported the proposed changes already in the second reading and we support them today. However, we would like to say, in our second reading, it has been said that the fact that public procurement, like elsewhere in the world, has always been and will be an area of a wide variety of opinions and interests, on the one hand because of the complexity of the area, as well as the subject of a wide variety of professional interests and, as a result, a wide variety of professional interpretations. However, public procurement must be strongly regulated by nature, as Slovenia is a small country, a small market, and in this area we have already developed networks and strong lobbying that have in every way desired and still want to subordinate certain segments of public procurement. The fact that public procurement is an important topic is evidence of the fact that a contract of 1.5 billion is awarded annually. The proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act brings new solutions in the area of financial discipline in relation to subcontractors, which is good. All of these, and many of the poorly regulated situations and hardships to which the subcontractors are the victims, have not been more divided than today's crisis, when the funds are running low and the ones, unfortunately the smallest, who have done their work properly, honestly, have also been examined, controlled, taken over, from large construction systems, and from the hard-earned resources that many working families are waiting for, are not getting. And it is right that we have intervened in this area and introduced with this law the possibility of payments to subcontractors. However, after this context, a specific construction story is opening up in Slovenia, which I must say is certainly not proud of us and not honourably, according to certain solutions in this segment. Since I know some of these construction projects, as mayor of the vicinity, I have to say for sure that it is not and cannot be the goal of Slovenia, that you are two workers, usually from abroad, in order to be economically exploited, share one bed; that in this area all human values will be undermined; that we have introduced in decades a subcontractor from subcontractors, subcontractors, when, of course, those in the construction ditch work three times, also four times cheaper - he is usually a foreigner - than someone who is a domestic worker in Italy, Austria, but who is a domesticist and receives three times the payment for his proper work. I am convinced that among the 100,000 Slovenian unemployed for a solid payment, we still find people who would be in construction, who have found for me one of the most productive, beautiful, concrete works, people who are willing to do it. We will close ourselves a little bit in our borders, but I think that this is a moment and a time when Slovenians and Slovenians, when we work and look ahead, should think about themselves first, but not that five, ten, fifteen percent of us are cut off by different bosses, who perhaps didn't even know our language a few years ago or have come to Slovenia as the lowest construction workers, and then, with the appropriate intelligence and much reflection and by searching for legal holes and lobbying, have advanced to the areas they have today, and part of this construction market is controlled by mobile phones and Mercedes. It also seems important to me that we update the so-called blacklists and finally say bob beans, why we are such that we have not proposed certain names in the past. I have to say, in some story, I've tried it myself, but it's a hard and complicated job. And of course, the fact that we proved to someone who was building a cleaning plant in the neighborhood, across the border, and he was stacking himself up in a capacity of 50 percent, we couldn't prove it properly. However, there was therefore no need for the relevant state authorities to help us with what kind of support and understanding. We want, of course, to redefine the relationship between the price and the quality of the item. We certainly agree with those who say that the price is not and must not be the basic and only criterion. Here we should draw attention to a well-known international proverb that says that we are not and should not be so rich that we can buy cheap. Other solutions are also important to us, which are more clearly defined in the area of the termination of the procedure and the rejection of all tenders, the introduction of legal instruction and the reintroduction of the procedure. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support solutions in the area of direct payment - I mentioned this - because it is necessary to prevent the first contractor from taking advantage of his privileged position vis-à-vis others in the chain. As far as price relations and other criteria are concerned, here the Government as a proposaler states that this has proved to be a problem several times in practice, since it certainly places too much value on quality accounts. Example - construction of water pipelines, water networks. The ones we benefit from today are 10, 15 and 40 to 80 years old and have survived. In the construction of the state-of-the-art water pipelines, we can obtain fittings that have a guarantee of two and three years, as well as those that will last for the next 50 years. And if there's a price criterion here, then that means that on a practical case, we're going to expect a lot on short notice and we're going to shoot ourselves in the knee for sure. It is also necessary to have adequate support, support and understanding of the authorities working in this country in the field of prevention of corruption, control, the Court of Auditors and elsewhere. For whoever knows the matter and the issue from a distance has, of course, another broader one, I think, a more realistic logic than someone who checks matters only dryly, according to the letter of the law. I wish we could write and accept such [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] who will give those first ones the opportunity to present and explain the correct, fair and lawful conduct. [[...]] Solutions have the support of the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The position of the Member State of the Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Chapič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye! I will take the position of the Group of Social Democrats on both points of the agenda, as the content of the amendments are complemented by the Law on public procurement in the water, energy transport and postal services as well as the Public Procurement Act. For both laws, changes concern both systemic issues and procedural improvements, as well as changes that would adapt national legislation to European public procurement legislation in all areas. Thus, the changes in both laws are similar, although these are different areas. The provision of parts or the acquisition of equipment through public procurement is an important generator of economic growth. In Slovenia, it means that public procurement gives rise to works reaching around 13% of GDP and is comparable to the share of the European public procurement market in the European Union's gross social product, which is about 16%. However, this share changes and is linked to the economic strength of each country and also to the developmental orientation of individual economies and transparency financed from public finances. We support the Group of Social Democrats in amending the legislation to remedy the shortcomings of the legislation that have emerged in the procurement practice and to rationalise procurement procedures. The current amendments to both public procurement laws relate mainly to the reduction of administrative costs, the reduction of time limits in public procurement procedures, increased transparency in the procurement process and the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises to the public procurement market - important objectives pursued by changes in both laws. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support solutions to key systemic changes to financial discipline both in procurement procedures and later when the contract is implemented and it is necessary to protect, in particular, subcontractors who assume a large part of the responsibility for the quality of the contract, together with the contractor. The Budget Implementation Act 2010 and 2011 provides that both investment works and payments of goods and services paid from public finances will be carried out within 30 days. An important provision that lays down completely different financial frameworks. In order to eliminate financial non-discipline, it seems to us that it is of utmost importance that a key provision, which is set out in the Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, must, when performing with subcontractors, indicate in the tender what has already been done, but many times has been breached - it is new that they must provide information on the part of the contract to be performed by the subcontractor as a mandatory component of the contract between the contracting authority and the contractor as well as the consent of the subcontractor on the basis of which the contracting authority may pay the subcontractor directly to the subcontractor. Let us hope that this provision in the law will force the main contractors or contractors to actually pay those contractors who will do the work. In addition to that, the said power and consent must also include the value of the contract as a whole and the duration of the contract. Infringements of those requirements are defined in the draft law as an offence. With a view to regulating financial discipline in public procurement carried out by subcontractors, it is also envisaged that appropriate sub-legislative legislation be drawn up. However, this will largely protect the small subcontractors who eventually lost their pay because the contractor did not want or could not pay because it calculated on the invitation to tender and thus left subcontractors in particular insecure. An important novelty of the amended law has also established that the price is not always and the only saving provision for selecting the contractor. It should be laid down that the most economically advantageous operator should be selected and that the most economically advantageous price should not be the dominant element. Other elements such as quality of service or material, guarantee, maintenance and servicing costs and could also be listed should also be included for the economically most advantageous provider. These criteria, however, leave the amendment to the contracting authority, including the responsibility to choose the best. That is why we will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which re-sets the price as a dominant criterion in determining the economically most favourable offer. In order to rationalise the procedure and reduce costs, the law introduces changes in the verification of the offer and the related determination of the ability of tenderers to perform the contract. According to this law, the contracting authority shall first assess the offer and classify it according to the criteria and then verify only the most favourable offer. Where the most favourable tenderers do not meet the conditions for awarding a contract, the contracting authority shall exclude its offer and verify the competence of the tenderer who has submitted the next most favourable tender and so on. In this way, unnecessary work shall be spared to the contracting authorities and the authorities maintaining the official records, since the verification of competence is only for the most favourable tenderer. In relation to the verification of the ability of the tenderer, the contracting authority shall be allowed to take into account at the same time the evidence obtained by it in previous procurement procedures, if they are not older than four months and are, by content, appropriate. This amendment has a decisive impact on the reduction of administrative costs and costs incurred by tenderers engaged in public procurement. The amendments to both laws alone do not address any shortcomings detected in the implementation of public procurement in practice. The current changes are already changing almost a third of the scope of the basic law, so according to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly - and we join this opinion - from the point of view of the nomotechnic guidelines and the law, it will be necessary to amend it - with a novelty or cutting after the creation of a new law. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, which will be addressed at the following point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance! We have before us a third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services. Despite the fact that there are some positive solutions in the law, we will not support the proposed law in the SDS Group for the reasons set out below. The proposal provides for the repeal of the provision which takes into account, in the case of the most economically advantageous tender, the price criterion, in addition to other criteria such as aesthetic and other characteristics of the product, quality, life cycle, delivery time and the like. In the case of the economically most favourable offer, the law in force so far stipulated that the share of the price, regardless of the type and value of the other criteria, should be at least 60%. In our view, this solution is not bad and we do not see any need to amend this provision, as it has also proved in practice that this solution is good. This was also agreed by some members of the coalition on the working body who felt that such a solution would be maintained. And in this respect, the amendment of the committee was also adopted, but for reasons that are not understandable to us at the meeting of the National Assembly by the ruling coalition was over-voted. Such a solution means that someone for the same service will be able to choose someone for, say, a million euros and another for a similar or even the same service, someone for 50 million euros. Moreover, the contracting authority will be able to theoretically decide not to comply with the price as an appropriate criterion and will actually award the order to anyone. You'll say it won't happen. Maybe not, but there's a possibility, and the saying says the opportunity makes a thief. These options should simply not be allowed and, if this is the case, the possibilities for corrupt and clientistic actions will open up and, last but not least, the possibility of unbiased opinions from public authorities, such as the Court of Auditors, in assessing liability in the event of a breach of the obligations of good conduct. This opens the possibility for the contracting authority to adapt the tendering conditions by writing them on the skin of the specified tenderer. Unfortunately, we have not yet reached this stage in our country where the culture of business would be at such a level that legislation could be so liberal. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that deleting this provision of the current law in a given situation can be dangerous and the effects can be more negative than positive. As a result of all the above, we will not support the proposed text in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you. Honorable President, colleagues, representatives of the government! Today the National Assembly, in addition to the amendment to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services, is also considering the amendment of the Public Procurement Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The solutions to both proposals for a new law are in many ways identical. The proposal implements the European Directive in the Slovenian legal order and regulates certain procurement issues that are intended to lead to greater transparency, simplify administrative procedures and at the same time resolve the issue of payment non-discipline. Some changes have been made to the legislative text in the field of the required skills for the implementation of the contract, and this can improve the quality of public procurement. Otherwise, as has already been said, the novelty takes over the provisions of the European Directive and seeks, in particular, the efficiency and transparency of public procurement. Returns to the low-value procurement process and these contracts must be published by the contracting authority on the public procurement portal. We believe that this small and medium-sized enterprise will make it possible to access public procurement and ensure greater transparency. In particular, they would point out that direct payments to subcontractors are being introduced in order to regulate payment non-discipline in procurement procedures. While this requires additional work for the contracting authority, in particular in relation to monitoring payments, this measure, on the other hand, constitutes provision of payments to subcontractors within a reasonable period of time. There was a relatively large number of controversy in the process, because not everyone was sure whether or not the procedures would be effective or without effect. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we really believe that the bulk of the Slovenian economy is just small and medium-sized enterprises and that the introduction of direct payments will improve the position of subcontractors. Small businesses and craftsmen are usually not able to carry out public contracts themselves as they are directly involved in the public procurement market through the main operators. However, the failure to pay works or the suspension of payments may be fatal for such an economic operator in situations as we are in a time of economic crisis. Otherwise, after our assessment, the proposed solutions in both laws represent progress and we expect positive changes to be made in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The amendments to the Law on Public Procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services sector seek to address the shortcomings of the legislation that have proved to be practical and to rationalise procurement procedures. The changes relate mainly to the reduction of administrative costs, the reduction of time limits in public procurement procedures, increased transparency in procurement procedures and the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises to the public procurement market. The advantage of the law is also to comply with the European Community Directive on improving the efficiency of public procurement audit procedures. Although that Directive regulates the area of legal protection in procurement procedures, it is appropriate to include certain solutions in the substantive law in the field of public procurement. The procurement system is based on the principles arising from the Treaty establishing the European Community, namely the principle of free movement of goods and services and the freedom to establish, on the principle of efficiency, on the principle of efficiency and effectiveness, on the principle of ensuring competition between tenderers, on the principle of equal treatment of tenderers, on the principle of proportionality and on the principle of transparency. These principles, however, are in some ways contradictory, which also stems from concerns about violations of this law. Where and when the right limit is in certain solutions is theoretically difficult to determine. For the solutions that are before us, we can say that their purpose is certainly good, but whether their measure is the right one will, of course, be shown by practice. We've got some thoughts in the Human Party. One of the key systemic changes to this law is the regulation of financial discipline in public procurement procedures where the tenderer is performing with subcontractors. As a mandatory component of the contract between the contracting authority and the successful tenderer, the subcontractor’s mandate and the subcontractor’s consent shall be determined on the basis of which the contracting authority may pay the subcontractor directly. Sounds great and nice, as they call it, but there are many questions. Firstly, we believe that systematic measures are needed primarily to address the problem in general and in general to address payment non-discipline. What about the payment discipline of all other entities in the Republic of Slovenia? Is it actually gonna stay unresolved? Is it right that in this case the burden of resolving the problem of payment non-discipline is passed on to the contracting authority? How will such a contract look in practice, which will have to contain all the required information regarding subcontractors? How much will this complicate the procedures and affect their cost-effectiveness and effectiveness? It is obvious that practice will bring answers because we do not know that today. In view of the fact that sometimes subcontractors are also a few ten, twenty, thirty, forty, the issue will certainly be problematic. The law introduces the term 'low-value tendering procedure' instead of 'procedure selection procedure' and provides for the publication of a notice of public procurement on the public procurement portal. This should ensure greater transparency and competitiveness for small and medium-sized enterprises. This enables access to the public procurement market and reduces the potential for corruption and customerism in the field of public procurement? In the case of the economically most favourable offer, the law in force so far stipulated that the share of prices, regardless of the type and value of the other criteria, should be at least 60%. According to the proposaler, the bill abolishes this anomaly. The determination of the criteria and weightings and the associated liability shall leave the contracting authority alone. At least we find this solution very controversial. Who will now ensure that in such procedures there will be a price, if not at least a fair criterion. In spite of all this, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u112	Please close the door to the hall. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u113	Despite all these main concerns, we will support the bill's proposal in the parliamentary group, as we support its purpose in the face of doubts about greater economic efficiency and efficiency, namely ensuring greater competition between tenderers and greater transparency in public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franz Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u115	In the DeSUS Group, we will contribute our votes to the adoption of both proposed amendments to the law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services, as well as the law on public procurement, because we have assessed the proposed solutions in both acts as acceptable and therefore worthy of our support. Otherwise, in both cases, it is more or less the same matter, except for certain specifics, which are included in the law's proposal currently under consideration by reference to matter. The joint assessment of Members of our parliamentary group on this proposal is that the proposed solutions are so standardised as to allow for a more efficient, rational and transparent approach in procurement matters, which will certainly contribute to competitiveness and also remove barriers to wider access for small and medium-sized enterprises. The area of public procurement is an extremely important area. This is what we all know and cannot be underestimated, especially from the point of view of spending public funds. Members of our Group believe that the proposal includes all the necessary mechanisms for rational use of state money and mechanisms to control this spending. It is also very important that subcontractors of various parts can be directly paid. We will therefore support the proposal for a law in its content, as proposed. However, we do not support the amendment tabled in this proposal, as it is a substantive solution, as it has already been adopted at the previous meeting of the National Assembly in the context of the second reading of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. He's got a word if he wants to, mag. Andrej Vizjak. [[He doesn't want to.]] Genius? [[No, no, ……]] Blackbell? Please, the Black Bell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Well, we have already discussed this law, and today we are only discussing it because, when a third reading was to be proposed, there was no one from the Ministry of Finance in the Chamber to propose it. We have already said that the goals that the law is supposed to pursue will unfortunately not be realized by this law. These good intentions with regard to subcontractors will also fail. The law is written in a kind of bureaucratic manner, as the regulations on the implementation of guarantee schemes were written, and we know what happened in the end. This additional liberalisation will not help to make the area more transparent, more public and to prevent what is currently happening. Instead of hundreds of subcontractors, there will be only one, which will satisfy the legal provisions, and everyone else in the chain will continue to be unprotected as they have been so far. But we can see what happens on a case-by-case basis. In these days we are witnessing tragic stories when in the construction of the currently largest project being built in Slovenia - this is the Stožice Stadium, obviously the biggest resolution project from the exit strategy - there are also unfortunate stories because there are no such payments to subcontractors. Unfortunately, the law, as it is now conceived, will not prevent what was intended. Part two. In the second reading, we have also adopted an amendment on the Committee with the help and support of some coalition Members, which has preserved what we now have in law, and we propose this again now, so that it cannot be a price criterion within the evaluation of the economically most favourable offer, which has been overlooked, as is now the case in this law. And with this amendment, which we hear you will not support, so that you will open the way for corruption and customerism, we suggest that we return what we have now and what has not been seen as bad in practice, but as good that, in the case of the evaluation of the offer, the price of at least 40% or at least 60% of the most economically advantageous offers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with a representative of the candidates or the government? State Secretary Mag. Helena Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the relationship which is the subject of the amendment to Article 21 of the Law, I would like to reiterate why the Government proposed the law in such a text as it is, and why it proposed that the prescribed price-to-other ratio be withdrawn from the legal text. The European Directives governing public procurement have been putting the quality of public procurement at the forefront for several years. By linking those guidelines that are present in the field of public procurement and relate to green public procurement, it is clear that the price can no longer represent a central criterion in the decision on a procurement contract or in the selection of the contractor of a public contract. If we want to set quality criteria for selecting the best bidder to ensure the best supply of a particular commodity or the performance of a service, then the criteria should be set so that they are in some normal relationship - both the quality criteria and the price criteria. By no means does the Government rule out the price of its proposal as an important factor. However, public procurement must also be seen from the point of view of its entire life. It is very often shown that the starting price for the purchase of some goods is actually low, and then the cost of maintaining this purchase or some underlying asset, for example, is extremely high, which means that at some point in the life cycle of that basic asset, we will bring the price even to a higher level than for someone else, where the base price will be high, and maintenance costs will already be included in that price. This is why it is also a recommendation, and also all European countries do not in fact prescribe a price-to-other ratio, but leave this to concrete decisions in a specific public contract. And that is also the intention of this marriage. However, I must say that, for example, at this point 77% of all public contracts assume as the only choice or as the only criterion of price, which of course is not necessarily the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Please Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u121	I must say, I really don't understand these non-supports to this amendment. However, I am convinced by this tenacity and this firm determination that this provision, which is now in law and which speaks of the need to take into account at least 40% and 60% of the price criterion in assessing the most economically advantageous offer, this persistence to delete it convinces me that there is a different purpose in the background. We know that this will be a criterion - we already have a choice in the law on the basis of the lowest price or on the basis of the best economic offer. The contracting authority itself shall decide which criterion it will choose and when it sees that it is more favourable for it to decide on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer and that the value of everything else referred to by the Secretary of State will decide to make the choice in accordance with this criterion. The law obliges us that the price is at least 40% and 60%; 40% when it comes to intellectual and other matters, 63% for all other orders. Now that you do not support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the third reading as well, and once you delete this provision in this law, you will allow, for example, for - here I have material regarding the famous government Falcon - falcon will pay for no euro. For no euro and no one in this country will be able to tell you anything. For you will say thank God that someone takes it at all, because the costs we have with it are so great that there is no way that anyone would pay for it at all. Remember, a year ago, this falcon in America flew for $125 thousand dollars a month's rent. The Slovenian government, Pahor's government, in just one year, dropped the rent and threw more than EUR 2 million of taxpayer money out the window. And this provision, which is now in law, will allow you to choose a product, a product, a service
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u122	Mr. Blackach, are you even talking about the amendment?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u123	Of course I'm talking about the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u124	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u125	That's right. This amendment, if adopted, would allow it to remain in the law a provision that says that the most economically advantageous offer is the last paragraph, worth 40% and 60% respectively. So I suggest that you just think about it and not follow some resistance, which I think must be just some of the substantive reasons behind it. Because otherwise, I have to say I don't understand. I also respect this European practice, which was already mentioned at the second reading, but the directives do not prevent us from having these provisions in the law as we now have them. And I must say that there were no problems with the contracting authorities in implementing the provisions of this law. I think the contracting authorities have implemented this provision in the way it was written. In some ways, however, it prevented such or other speculations. See where this provision can be applied most often - it can be applied to these so-called advisory services, where it is very difficult to determine the right price in some tangible way. You will have some legal advice for a million euros, but you could also get it for 100,000 euros. And if that criterion is not met, this service can be selected for a million euros. I don't think it's in the spirit of marriage and it would be right to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mrs Kamnareva, I must say that the amendment to Article 18 does not speak of this at all. It is true, however, that only this article could be amended because this amendment was adopted at a second reading meeting of the National Assembly. So I must warn you, as well as the others, that you have misused the business possibility of discussing the amendment here because you were talking about things that the amendment does not deal with. This is a provision which should oblige the contracting authority to treat the tenderers equally for all sets or tenderers for one set and so on. Mr. Blackach, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u127	Look, Madam President, you said I abused the rules of procedure. What did I abuse the rules of procedure with? Explain to me what I abused because I was talking about the same matter as the Secretary of State earlier. Then we both abused the rules of procedure. I didn't abuse the rules of procedure! I was talking about an amendment that talks about what was already the subject of discussion at the second reading of the law and we are at the end of the second reading precisely for this reason, because this amendment was not adopted at the second reading, although it was previously adopted by the Committee on Finance, at the Committee on Finance, including with the help of some coalition Members, we have announced that we will also table this amendment in the third reading. And I was just talking about what we have on the table right now. I don't know what you think I'm dealing with in conflict with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u128	Of course I'll be happy to explain. Not you and not Mrs. Mag. Kamnareva did not fully violate the Rules of Procedure in the debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a law - in the previous debate - in the debate on the draft law as a whole. However, when we moved to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's a warning, it's no big deal, I just warned you not to talk about the subject that this amendment created. So much to know. The amendment to Article 18 would like to be discussed by the Secretary of State, not by the content relating to the law as a whole or to other articles. This is an amendment to Article 18.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Thus, the amendment to Article 18, as drafted, is simply not necessary because this content is already covered in Article 49, paragraph 6. It is of course that we should also include in the text the price relationship again - that is, this amendment to Article 18 is consequently linked to the inclusion in the text of the price-to-other ratio. However, I would like to say that what Mr Montenegro has said about the amendment to Article 18 does not, in fact, follow. The availability of falcon is not the subject of a public procurement law, but is the subject of a real estate law, so that the case was completely inappropriately included in the debate. And the other thing. The conspiracy theory that you read to the Government in perpetuating the original text of the law is certainly not in place, because this is not about any conspiracy theory and last thoughts that we do not reveal to you in Parliament, but is simply about responding to the current situation and the current difficulties in the implementation of the public procurement. At least in two segments, we have been warned that the current law solution makes the implementation of public procurement difficult, namely in the area of intellectual property or intellectual services and in the field of IT equipment. It would be worth changing, and with our content of the law, we are responding to these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u131	I regret that the President has now left the leadership of the National Assembly, but it would be right, I hope that you have now made it clear that I have not abused anything. I was talking. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u132	You have no further words, Mr. Blackach. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u133	about this matter. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u134	Mr. Blackach, you have no more words!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u135	Procedurally, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u136	Yes, then tell me what you want!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u137	Ms. Kamnar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u138	I asked you in the beginning, and let me say the sentence to the end!!Oh, my God! What do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u139	Mrs. Kamnar was talking about the same matter as I was saying, but she wasn't accused of anything. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u140	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u141	abused the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u142	Black [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u143	I want you to go to State. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u144	Please. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u145	The same criteria apply to all! [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u146	I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Madam Secretary of State, would you like a word? No, no, no. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Of course, we have said a lot about this law already in the preceding paragraph, but nevertheless public procurement is so necessary and important that certain matters need to be repeatedly highlighted. The Public Procurement Act is part of three public procurement laws: the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal have been previously dealt with, or both contain the same or analogue solutions. These two laws are systemicly similar laws and are therefore also proposed by the Government, according to the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, appropriate solutions, which can still be upgraded, improved and therefore all this public procurement situation needs to be kept up-to-date and continuously monitored, analysed and prepared measures to improve the situation. We reiterate our support for the proposed solutions, which are mainly related to providing financial discipline in relation to subcontractors, to update the vendor records with so-called negative references and to strengthen our responsibility to rationalise the process and to reduce the costs related to the verification of the offer and the related determination of the ability of tenderers and to further define the termination of the procedure and the rejection of all tenders. Our general assessment is that the law brings good, advanced solutions, so we will enforce the law in the Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much again for your word. The proposal for a law on public procurement is thus identical to the law that we have dealt with in the previous paragraph and in the SDS Group we will not support this bill either for the reason that I have already stated in the position at the previous point - it is said that the amendment to the law deletes the provision that, in the case of the most economically advantageous tender, in addition to the other criteria, takes into account the price criterion. And another reason is why we will not support the law in the SDS Group. In fact, the proposaler, this is the Government, proposes the establishment of an institution to withdraw from the contract in the event that the contracting authority does not have the resources provided for it or that the contracting authority simply finds that the subject matter of the contract is no longer needed. This is a little strange and incomprehensible that the contracting authority may conclude in the proceedings after the award of the award decision that it does not have the resources, because if it does not have the resources provided, the procurement procedure cannot also begin. In our opinion, such a dictatorship is also legally controversial, since the contracting authority must, as it were said, prior to the award of the contract, define the subject matter in its plans for development programmes and the budget. In this regard, we have also drafted an amendment to the SDS Group of Members proposing the deletion of this provision or the new fifth paragraph. As a result of the proposed law in the SDS Group, as stated above, we will not support such a text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik on behalf of the Zares Group, reported - none. Mr. Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group. - He's not here. Mr Franz Jurša, on behalf of the DeSUS Group - he is not here. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak - he's gone. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic. You're giving up. Mr. Mag. Franz Znidaršič - he's not here. Mr. Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. It is a substance similar to what we had in the previous marriage. It's not true that this marriage has no direct connection to Falcone. He's got it. Because Falcone was acquired in the mandate of the former LDS Government to comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act; also to take into account the provisions on the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer, namely those provisions which are now being deleted; that the price should be valued at least 40% and 60%. And nothing was disputed about it, and the choice could be made, but it is true that the decision on what to acquire was fundamentally wrong. Like, for example, based on the wrong activity to rent, while building a special building for the needs of the police, some additional facility for a million EUR 600,000. But if we talk about this law, we can find out the same way that we did in the past: that the good intentions that are written in the explanation will unfortunately not be achieved by this law. And also the purpose it pursues in ensuring greater financial discipline and in allowing this chain of public procurement to allow for the same position as the first contractor, including for all other subcontractors, this law will not be fulfilled, because those who now apply in view of the bureaucraticity of the procedure defined in this law will not perform with the hundreds of subcontractors and suppliers it now has, but will perform with one, and this will then establish the entire chain forward and the provisions of the law will be satisfied. So what is the effect in this area, what will be the impact in this area? Nothing! None, as was not the appropriate effect when you adopted the law on the guarantee scheme and when you made the matter more complicated by formalising the regulations, that the effects in 2009 were not practical and that is why Slovenia fell most among the countries of the European Union in 2009 and still falls. In this January, you have €220 million in the budget and last year you had €6.6 million. Catastrophe data that would require an immediate budget rebalancing for 2010. However, the purpose of this provision is to eliminate the price criterion, so that it can be obtained at any cost, that these restrictions are no longer available, and at a time when we are saying that all segments, in particular in the public sphere, need to be saved. This provision is in exactly the opposite spirit as should be the provisions not only of this law, but of all the laws adopted by this country. For this reason, I believe that the minimum that needs to be done is to adopt the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And once again, I do not understand this strong resistance to this amendment, which does nothing but legitimise the situation which is currently in force and which is not problematic and controversial in terms of public procurement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u152	Mr. Willy Trophynik - he's not here. Mrs. Secretary of State would like a word? No, thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 2. 3. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? No, that is why I am closing the debate and putting Article 36 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members into discussion. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today by a half-hour after the end of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE Tax PROCEDURE LAW, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Magi. To Andre Visiak for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u153	So, honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, thank you very much for the words and opportunity to present this, according to my assessment of the important law. In opening, I should like to express my disappointment that, when I read the agenda of this February meeting held in early March, I have been disappointed to find that the Government has not proposed and that we will not consider any law at this meeting, no action of the so-called exit strategy, a strategy that would lead Slovenia faster from the abyss and an unenviable situation, both in terms of public finances and of course the economic situation. Even though the government boasted that it had proposed quickly, one of the first, the exit strategy, in this implementation of the academic text, is again failing. And it also seems to be a failure in the future, as there is also no exit strategy in the announced March session. Indeed, for next week we have convened the Committee on Economics and Finance and, unless the Government accidentally thinks that the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act is part of the exit strategy, there is no other measure. [[...]] That's why we're doing this in the opposition. The law that we have on the table today is also a law that would relieve the Slovenian economy - not in financial or tax terms, but in administrative terms. And that's the money for the companies. Any time, any unnecessary bureaucratic business or business means costs and money and reduces their competitiveness. We have tried several times to convince the Government that it is appropriate to listen to such proposals, to analyse them and not accept them, at least to propose something better, something different in terms of the administrative burden of the economy. Unfortunately, however, the government does not do much in this area. Therefore, with this bill, we want to significantly reduce the administrative burden on Slovenian companies and, as a result, upgrade their competitiveness. The purpose of amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act is the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to the common account and their subsequent division by the relevant key. Instead of sharing and servicing state-owned cash registers through various remittances, both budgetary and others, officials should later do so. Companies are supposed to transfer funds to a single account, i.e. the same height as before, but only with one remittance. The analysis shows that contributions to independent entrepreneurs are paid to a variety of accounts, three for employees and four or five for employees. Something like this happens soon enough, and it's up to ten. Therefore, why should businesses not be burdened if, of course, yes - and must be given - since the European Union's direction since 2007 is that administrative burdens should be reduced by 25%. The Slovenian government has also attached to this commitment, but it has not so far taken any action seriously and implemented these commitments. The report and the opinion of the Government shows that the Government has set up a working group working on these simplifications and on proposals, and unfortunately I find that there are no concrete measures in relation to these updates - or is it? Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State what will the Government do in this regard if it already has a negative position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ma'am mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! With regard to the initiative to simplify the process of paying tax obligations, we have already discussed twice in the National Assembly last year. The Government's opinion has already been clarified on that occasion, but let me remind you once again where the fundamental obstacle is, why we have not yet implemented this simplification on the government's side, and we intend to do so as soon as the conditions are met. The simplification of the payment of tax burdens has clearly been realized by the past government, as this working group, also mentioned by Member Vizjak, was appointed in May 2008. Well, this working group has been working intensively on the concept of how to simplify procedures, all this time and already in last year, it has proposed that the process should continue by reducing, in particular, the number of sub-accounts for the payment of duties and by separating the cash flow and information flow, which would allow for more purposes to be carried out with one remittance and knowing exactly what purpose the money is for. Of course, it is for the implementation of this principle, which we are all very committed to and which the Government has written down in its documents, namely, under the programme 25% of the state's administrative burden by 2012. That's what it says, there's this thing in the program, but the condition that we can do this is the tax administration's information system. The current tax administration information system and the current accounting system do not allow this simplification to take place. This is because we do not have a single information system, but we have basically every tax supported by one information system and these information systems are not compatible with each other, so they cannot be linked in the right way. Therefore, it is also not possible to find one taxable person at all addresses under the single information system. The new information system in the tax area, as far as I know, has been approaching it since 2002 and all public procurement in this area has been successfully falling. But now we've come so far that the public service has succeeded. The Audit Commission decided a few days ago that we could proceed with the procedure, which means that within a few days a contract will be signed and that it will take this new information system seriously. According to our plans, in 2011 it would be possible to simplify the procedure in practice, at least now it shows, without legal changes, because it is possible to do so within the framework of the implementation of existing legislation and to regulate all matters at the level of sub-legislative rules. Of course, if it turns out that there will be a need for legal change, the government will propose it by the end of this year, but for now it shows that this will not be necessary and that we will be able to achieve our objectives. Not entirely because the subject matter of payment of various benefits is regulated in different laws, in particular as regards the payment of social security contributions, which will be regulated in the reform of this system, both pension and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Once again, hello to all present! The first-signed Jozet Tank group is proposing in the Tax Procedure Act, which it has already proposed in May 2009 in the Public Finance Act. The purpose of the proposed law is to enforce the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to a common account and to share them according to the relevant key, thereby significantly reducing the administrative burden on Slovenian companies. In the coalition we welcome the initiative to reduce administrative barriers for Slovenian companies, but unfortunately the previous government did not implement a programme of measures to remove administrative barriers in 2008 even though it was envisaged. Nevertheless, the coalition and the Government are aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other obligations. This measure is therefore set out as one of the measures taken to reduce the administrative barriers of 2009. As a result, on 26 May 2009, the Government appointed a special working group to simplify the system of charging and payment of taxes, contributions, other compulsory duties and public financial revenues. The working group was appointed for the reason that this topic concerns a complex and complex area which affects a number of different areas and therefore requires a substantive study of a number of interconnected systems. The Government of the Working Group has already drawn up a draft model for simplifying the tax system, which needs to be examined in other aspects, notably from the point of view of payment, the separation of cash and information flows and the recording of a new model on tax accounting. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative burdens by 25% includes a measure to simplify the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties. The programme provides for the possibility of simplifying the system by reducing the frequency of payment of amounts lower than, for example, a certain amount, with annual or semi-annual one-year transfer and reducing bank fees. The deadline for the preparation of the professional bases is 2009 and the deadline for the introduction of the system is 2011. However, the coalition cannot support the proposed law because the methods of payment of compulsory duties are regulated by different laws and it is therefore necessary to examine the possibility of a uniform payment in the context of these laws: the Tax Act, the Tax Procedure Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Health Insurance and Health Act, the Social Security Contributions Act. It is, of course, necessary to remind the proposer that the laws in force now allow the taxpayer to pay several duties, controlled by one supervisor and paid on the same day with one task. In this case, supervisors and taxpayers exchange the specification, i.e. the calculation of the amount of payment. The code of this account must be correctly entered in the reference to the payment order. Such payments shall be paid by taxpayers to the interim budget of the supervisor from which the supervisor then allocates the levy to the corresponding sub-accounts. In these cases, only one commission shall be paid. On the basis of the decision of the State Audit Commission, a necessary reform of the information system of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will be initiated. The call for an information system has dragged itself through the entire previous mandate as well as part of this government's mandate. On the basis of the completed procedure on the selection of the Durs information system provider, the proposed solutions can be examined in the context of simplification of tax procedures. So we can say that the necessary and urgent steps have finally been taken in this area. In view of the above facts, that the proposed solution should be regulated systematically in several laws, the Group of Social Democrats will vote against the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration, since in the Group of Social Democrats, on the basis of everything previously stated, we assess that such a bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present! The SDS Group has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new law on the tax procedure to allow for a uniform transfer of all tax obligations to the common account and their distribution by the appropriate key. In the parliamentary group, we believe that this is an important law, which means another type of attempt to continue, however, the activities in the area of removing administrative obstacles, which have started systematically in both the European Union countries and Slovenia in 2007, and are now somehow dead. This would significantly reduce the administrative burden on the economy, in particular small and micro enterprises, whose costs of bank commissions are disproportionately high compared to the amount of the tax liability. The taxpayers pay taxes and contributions, as well as other compulsory duties on several different sub-accounts opened at Banka Slovenije, after the current legislation. For each such individual duty, the payment order must be completed and the commission paid to the bank. As it is said, this also means unnecessary administration for the debtors in addition to the significant costs of payment transactions. Thus, in the event that an entrepreneur has only one employee to fulfil 14 payment orders today, it is said that, in addition to the payment of salary, transport to work and nutrition and other material costs, there is a tax on personal benefits, the contribution from salaries and disability insurance, and the contribution from salaries to employment, the contribution from salaries to parental care, and the contribution to health care wages, and the contribution to health care, including salaries and employment, the contribution to accidents at work and occupational diseases, and the contribution to salaries for parental care. Maybe it's interesting. In the event that the employee’s salary is minimal, the amount of up to five payment orders shall be less than EUR 2. The bank fee for one employee is over €9 per month, which is not much at first sight, but it amounts to more than €110 per company on an annual basis, or assuming that we have about 60,000 companies in Slovenia, I do not know if there are so many more, then that is €6 million of bank fees if the company has only one employee. In the SDS Group, we estimate that the amendment is suitable for further consideration and we will support it in the first reading. As we know that the Government opposes the proposal, we expect it to explore options as soon as possible and find a suitable solution to reduce administrative barriers, which would be particularly welcome for small and micro enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Government Representative, colleagues. This is a "remake" proposal already tabled by a group of Members to this assembly on 10 June 2009. And the assembly had already voted against further consideration of the proposal, which was the same in substance months ago. However, the purpose and purpose of the proposal are fully understandable and justified. In short, it is the exercise of the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to the common account. This reduces the administrative burden on taxpayers. This was also the case with the Minister of Finance, who appointed a special working group in May 2008 to revise the system of charging and payment of taxes, contributions and other public financial revenues. It is therefore a working group dealing with a highly complex and complex area. The simplification of the system of payment of taxes also depends on solutions in terms of payment turnover, separation of cash and information flows and, last but not least, on the establishment of the new information system of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which the applicant has already explained. In this regard, however, the Government explained that the draft new model was in order. With regard to the proposal that we are considering, however, it considers that it is right to overlook comprehensive solutions that are regulated or not regulated in different tax laws and are therefore to be agreed. The unconvincing nature of the proposal is this time over the benefits it brings. Indeed, the Group of Members will not support him for this. However, something else that has to do with this indirectly has also been discussed by my predecessor, about an extremely frequent change in tax legislation - it is not recommended if it is not necessary. It is bad, so called theory and practice, and there is a relatively solid and reliable measurement of the consequences caused by the legislator, that is us. They are reflected in the costs associated with tax collection. Costs shall be divided into direct and indirect costs. Directly represent the costs of the tax administration, which are related to tax collection and represent slightly less than 1% in Slovenia, I think 0.9% of the taxes and contributions collected. Indirect costs that burden taxpayers, I am thinking mainly of the maintenance of information systems, tax advisers, lawyers, storage of documentation, accounting services, education and so on, and, according to an international assessment, two to three times more than direct, two to three times more than the costs of the tax administration. Data that makes you think. He's got to let us think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u163	Your Honors are here! For the second time before us, a law that, according to our assessment by relatively simple, painless and innocuous change, would have contributed greatly to the elimination of administrative barriers and the reduction of the costs on the part of the taxpayers for payment of various taxes. According to the drafter, the taxpayers should be liable to pay more than 10 different sub-accounts. For each of the sub-accounts, a separate payment order must be completed and a commission should be paid for each bank. On the one hand, therefore, it is a solution that relieves the debtors of administrative burdens and, on the other hand, does not negligiblely reduce the costs of operations of businesses and other debtors. The government, of course, once again opposes the proposal of the law with exactly the same arguments as the good half a year ago. Arguments: such a very complex problem cannot be adequately or substantively complete and correctly defined as proposed. However, the Government remains aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other obligations, so on 26 May 2008 it appointed a special working group to simplify the system of payment of taxes, contributions, other compulsory duties and public financial revenues. After almost two years of operation, the working group has already drawn up a draft model for simplifying the tax system, which, according to the Government, needs to be examined from other perspectives, particularly in terms of payment turnover, the separation of cash and information flows and the recording of a new model in tax accounting. The government further explains that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative burdens includes a measure to simplify the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties. The deadline for the preparation of professional bases is 2009 and the deadline for the introduction of the system is 2011. I don't know if a man would laugh or cry. Given the pace of life we live at this time, it is unfortunate that our government is productive and expedient at the pace of the 18th century. The consequences of these "super abilities", unfortunately, are borne by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments are necessary and useful and the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you. Once again a nice greeting to all who sit in the hall! The main solutions in the proposed amendment to the Tax Procedure Act are the possibility of a single transfer of all tax liabilities belonging to the State, municipalities, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the Slovenian Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and other recipients to a common account and their distribution by appropriate key, the Minister of Finance should determine in more detail in 90 days, and that the taxable person can only decide on the priority of payment of tax liabilities. All members of the National Assembly are probably aware that the identical contents of the novel proposal, which is now on the agenda, are not being discussed for the first time. The proposer has already proposed several identical solutions both in the context of the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and in the context of the amendment of the Public Finance Act. The proposer does not support the system of copying glues and such a continuous submission of one and the same proposals of the law with impossible solutions in the DeSUS Group, because such an example is merely a waste of taxpayer money and, on the other hand, merely their, i.e. a proposal, a promotion. This was not just once, but several times the proposal was clearly and in detail explained why such proposals were not acceptable, but the proposaler persists and insists and submits this same content, which we then decide in the National Assembly. An application for a single mandate has already been submitted by employers' organisations. The government in its previous mandate had the opportunity to fully regulate this single task system, since the latter was also the subject of a government programme to remove administrative barriers, but the latter has not been implemented. Although we are assessing DeSUS Members that it would be appropriate to simplify the payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues, Members of the DeSUS proposal will not be supported for the following reasons. Mainly: the proposal is not basically prepared in such a way as to enable it to be implemented; the irreconcilability of dividing the duty by a certain key; for all compulsory duties it determines the same day of maturity in the month; to determine the method of recovery or recovery of underpaid or overpaid duties and other assumptions should not only be included in the Under-Law of the Minister responsible for finance, but should also provide for the way in which compulsory duties and other public financial revenues are paid. In order to reorganise these procedures for the payment and reduction of obstacles and also costs, it is certain that, according to our assessment, budgetary resources should also be provided. While the applicant claims that it is not necessary. Because of the above-mentioned Members of our Group, we will not support the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u167	Good afternoon. Today we have kind of quickly passed through very important laws, but I still think we can stop the second time from proposing a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. I listened attentively to a fellow Member sitting in front of me, who also made it clear that there is no good for any country and that this practice also shows that there is a change in tax legislation and that the world knows different ways, including flexible tax laws or tax policies, when taxes themselves adapt to the economic situation - but, well. That's probably all for the future. We have been supporting the Slovenian National Party for a year, and for some time, the intention of this government to regulate not only tax policy in a uniform way, but a lot of what is today fragmented and what is changing. On the other hand, all the time, and I also warn about the work of the mother, most importantly, if we are careful, we pass laws amending laws. Even when we are warned that the proposal for a law amending a law is to amend more than two-thirds of the articles in order to introduce a new law. Some were specifically told that a new law should be introduced. What we do most is we change laws and adopt laws to change laws. We don't do anything like that. Let us make a brief substantive change, which is probably made with good intent, with good intent, and the question is what its results are, and at the same time we are doing exactly what the colleague warned us not to do. We are making such diversity and so many changes that in fact more costs with all lawyers, experts who study all the changes made and explain them to those who have to implement or respect these laws, are being implemented. In fact, these are huge costs, and some are even changing so quickly that people can barely reach them. On the other hand, we need to take a real look. Someone has shown goodwill, and we must say that he wanted to do something good with the amendment of the law. In any event, such an intention to review such a law and then to assess whether the law is appropriate or not substantive, on the other hand, it is likely that technical implementation or the promise of that Government that it will combine some of the content proposed in the various laws into one law. Well, there hasn't been any of these content up to today. I hope one day we'll experience them. But, you know, we need to take action right now! Therefore, the Slovenian National Party, as it will be today, decided to support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. For the first time, it will show that it wants something to change; for the second time, we will express our view that the content of this law is good and that its purpose is useful and that it will bring something good. Since it is only a single transfer of tax liabilities, it is therefore possible to delay the prescribed payment deadlines up to 15 days in order to improve the liquidity situation of Slovenian companies, it is 90 days from the adoption of the law, when the Minister can determine a more detailed payment method at that time. In short, the content seems appropriate. Therefore, we will once again support the proposal of this tax procedure law. Of course, we will also be very pleased to support the new package, and I hope that the tax package that the Government is supposed to be preparing is a package. And I also hope, given that a member of their government and one of the Members also reminded them that the profession is talking about the fact that it is good to have as uniform, as firm and as long as possible a lasting tax policy in order to ensure that this opinion, this assessment, this knowledge, this behaviour in the preparation of the new single tax system is also taken into account. At that time, the Slovenian National Party, of course if this package of laws is strong and strong, will be happy to support it, but until then we are also pleased to support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Procedure in the hope, the desire and almost the belief that it would bring something good. Above all, if not, the banks would be forced to look and think a little more rationally. As much as the banks have earned from all these deposits, they could live without any deposits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Once again, a pleasant greeting to the few present and the secretaries. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act, but unfortunately it is exactly the same as that of June last year, which was rejected on the basis of facts and arguments. The only change we can understand from the bill is its explanation or assessment of the situation and the individual reasons for the adoption of the law. So this is another one - of course I speak in the notes - so-called 'constructive proposals of the opposition', how to remove administrative obstacles and thereby mitigate the crisis. Although it was already explained at the time of the first introduction of the law that a specific group is working in the Government area, which is preparing concrete solutions in this area, including in the area of possible simplification of the payment of taxes, contributions and other compulsory duties. More importantly, the government itself states that the working group has already drawn up a draft model for simplifying the tax system, which is currently being examined from other perspectives, particularly in terms of business in practice, from the point of view of payment, the separation of monetary and information flows and the recording of a new model on tax accounting. However, we can certainly attach to the general assessment in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that the topic under consideration is very difficult, wide and that it requires detailed treatment, which is handled in a package and comprehensive manner, which we do not see in the proposed resolution of the law with only five articles, of course, and that is why we do not support these solutions. Surely, however, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we can agree that proposals for solutions should be prepared faster, as they could also reduce burdens and complex procedures more quickly, but there are times of crisis, and we know what is the priority of ministries, and on the other hand those who want to help the coalition constructively, will also make sure that there are events on the agenda that mean that we are dealing with such problems as we did yesterday, but not by looking for concrete constructive solutions that need time, calmness, cohesion and each solution will never be able to verify whether it will work, then to write into the law and then accept it. Finally, it is also worth mentioning that the proposed law in certain respects does not provide quality solutions related to statutory deadlines for payment of duties; solutions related to a single transfer, various recovery, recovery and so on. Indeed, as already mentioned, the problem of paying taxes, contributions and levies must be addressed in an integrated manner, since this area in practice is governed by a whole set of laws. This is also highlighted by the Government, which says it is. 2. Article 2 of the draft law, in breach of the system of payment of tax liabilities, as the proposed extension will render all the laws of the time-limits meaningless and, as a result, will certainly cause some kind of chaos. At that time, however, we will receive a lot of criticism as to why and how the system does not work, so things need to be considered, thought through and wisely put into practice. Otherwise, the existing current law allows each debtor to decide for himself which obligation and how to settle. On the basis of these facts, we can find that this law is a repeated, incomplete attempt by the opposition to burden the National Assembly with the same laws, which professionally or otherwise, as we say domestically, "are not drinking water". These are, of course, also the reasons why we do not attach to this law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The amendment of the Tax Procedure Act is, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, somewhat necessary, but necessary in this respect to simplify payments and to establish a different, stable, long-term tax policy, which will in some ways also be a burden for small and medium-sized enterprises, as constantly changing legislation in this area is also a huge cost for these companies. Education, legal services, new computer equipment require, in addition to time, the financial resources that companies must allocate for this purpose. If we look at it, let's say that in other areas, too, we like to make it very complicated in this bureaucratic sense, of course, we can say that this country kind of wants to have expensive procedures and also an unconstant tax policy policy. I would understand if we had a desire and a desire to bring Slovenia into financial discipline and to protect the one who produces in this way, that what he does, he also gets paid. And that the state isn't just thinking about how it's going to collect taxes. It is still in force the principle that whoever issues the invoice, regardless of whether this invoice has been paid, must pay the tax. From here on, the state has no interest in whether this account has been paid to the person who charged the service. The main thing is that the state gets what's hers. That's not good. Because in this way we also make this tax field poor and I think that this interest group of honest producers should first be protected, so I call them, and the so-called black money laundering should be prevented. If the country offers this protection in a single package of tax policies in a way known to other countries, including by taking over companies that should be placed under the patronage of the country for a more favourable business with a procurator that we can find over time on the market. Nor would they have affected the production, nor would they have affected the workers who now, if the company went bankrupt, simply shut down, first; secondly, pay off the bankruptcy workers and the workers usually hang empty pockets. In short, a change in this tax procedure is necessary, but in the Slovenian National Party we note that it is necessary to find such a solution in tax legislation, which will be permanent, which will in fact provide companies with some stability in their business and will safeguard their services to the debtors. If we do not do so, there will be less and less money in the state budget than is happening to us now. I think it's the taxes that fill the state cash register. Consider also in this direction how we will protect those who fill this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik. Mr. Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Although this marriage is short, I still believe that it would be worth more attention, especially to take it more seriously. Because the idea itself, as well as the solutions that could be complemented, would certainly contribute greatly to simplifying business, especially our entrepreneurs, who face many bureaucratic problems in one way or another. Last but not least, we have also heard today the figures on how much money has to be paid needlessly to pay for bank services and who deserves it - nothing else. Today, again, as never before, it has been pointed out that the Government is looking for systemic solutions that will try to regulate this area as well. Dear Government, which is not here today. These are just words that we have been listening to since the end of 2009 and 2008, even in 2009, and also now, but some concrete systemic solutions are not for this area, nor for any other. Obviously it is not the will or lack of knowledge, but I think that is enough, given that many people are being used needlessly and it would be worth considering that there would be more resources, knowledge, because this problem of information solutions would be that, with one virman, the entrepreneur can pay all the contributions he needs for his employees. If we remember how much in the previous term of the speech we were unable to obtain a previously fulfilled income statement, how many such or other reservations there were - and when the will, in particular by the government and the relevant ministers, was ordered to find a solution, this was found very quickly. It was necessary to replace the director of the tax administration and something else, and this could be arranged. As I said, the opposition to such solutions, the lack of interest, I believe that there is not such a weak government or a responsible minister. Ignorance, probably not that there are enough experts to address this area, but I am afraid there is a problem in the background. That he does not want to seek a solution quickly because it is what banks serve. Banks serve millions of euros. Apparently, this money is needed to reprogram all credits that have been "on beautiful eyes" and in the background shared and also reprogrammed. But that's not good. This money would be more useful, especially for the benefit of the economy, to be used or to remain our entrepreneurs, which each euro means much to them in a situation like this today. We have a little less than 100,000 unemployed, and we could hear that today. Unemployment compared to last year, however, we witnessed or thought last year that the crisis was somewhere at the top, that things are getting better now - obviously not. And precisely because of such small solutions; see this is a small solution, but if it were good will, it could be realized - not to say that tomorrow, but within a few months for sure. And if this law were adopted, even with additions, there could be a lot of substantive complementarity, it would be some coercion or in fact an obligation on the government or all other institutions to take it seriously. And now we're waiting for systemic solutions, and none of this is going to happen. That the Government is not interested in all of these simplifications, which would be very much in favour of our entrepreneurs, that it is not interested in such simplifications, also shows the fact that right now we are starting to introduce a new health card with additional costs, when we could all simplify/unification with the ID project. And here, too, is the obvious reason to make a living in the background to some who serve in this way. So listen again to the observations or rejection by the coalition or government to repeat the laws that "copy-paste" them - see, this is a law that we will probably have to file yet. Really. I hope that you will ever be struck by this realization that you will be aware of the importance of this and that this project will be taken more seriously by the Government and everyone else. This is not the kind of thing that the Slovenian Democratic Party would like to force itself. These are the suggestions of the Chamber of Commerce. They're the ones who want things to be simplified. How much would it cost to write these bills, the Virmans, not to mention those fees that have to be paid? Let such a thing be taken well and not easily said that this is not the solution, that it is some kind of populism. That's not true! Therefore, the situation in Slovenia is as it is. All well-intentioned proposals are taken as populism, and we are waiting, and there is nothing concrete about the government. The exit strategy, which was so sung, was already critical to it at the time: without some concrete solutions, without some action plans. We would expect to have a concrete solution to any of those measures, some law, at this meeting. None of that! Even what we have actually contributed by this law, which would be a pebble in this mosaic, is rejected, but apparently are important for this coalition, for this government deleted, the same-sex community for adoption of children and various things that are not at all a priority for Slovenia. In the coalition, think about it and be sober, not because of us, but because of our economy, but because of this situation in which we are clearly sinking faster and faster, it is more than a free fall. From this I doubt that we will simply dig ourselves out. I myself will support this law with joy, and even if necessary, we will also invest it, and I hope that he will once come across understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u174	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. A few days ago, we witnessed the death or suicide of one of the entrepreneurs who, in his work, employees and in all misunderstandings, including the countries, apparently decided on this serious step. For years and years he has invested in the company, paid taxes, employed so many and so many people, but now for his failure to pay, and for many other things he has obviously given up. It is likely that such tragic cases can happen to us in the future if this country has such a relationship with entrepreneurs. When we proposed a second set of measures, a third set of measures, we tried to take a step against entrepreneurs, against those who actually create them in this country and pay into the cash register, from which we then enjoy various ways and at different ends of the money. These entrepreneurs keep reminding them of the country's unfriendly attitude towards them, we do not allow or facilitate their work. In fact, we can make them feel bad about any additional regulations and with what additional requirement. We have therefore proposed many things to facilitate the work of entrepreneurs. Nor is the one proposed for the first time proposed, and in all the state bureaucracy, for which we often do not have good words, not us, but also sometimes citizens and citizens, because it is incomprehensible that one thing is not allowed to be regulated within the state administration, but by this we are burdening the entrepreneur with so many and so many Virmans, with so many and so many positions that we know that sometimes even the payment and commission is greater than the amount on the table. We are thinking and trying to put into practice all the things that both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Economics are proposing that in these times when we know that businesses, the economy, are not easy, the crisis is great, so that at least in this case the country can step in and make this work easier for them. This hearing is usually not on the part of our friends, despite the fact that you are always talking about working together and that you will also support the good suggestions that we are proposing in our parliamentary group. We didn't see it coming, and I'm afraid we won't now. Nevertheless, we will insist, because entrepreneurs are turning to us, they are turning to businesses that have problems that still keep the work going to many workers, but with this attitude the state is probably not going to insist for much longer because every month there are so many and so many things going down with them. And all you have to do is decide whether you're going to increase this minus from month to month, or you're going to break it once. And that's what's happening to us. Therefore, we do not understand that both the ministry and the coalition do not want to hear some of the reliefs that such laws would bring, but that the country does not have much to pay or cost nothing at all, but they demand some of the works of state officials which are paid for it anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u176	Does Mr. Jože Tanko have a word? Mr. Rado Likar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is true that we have already tabled an identical bill last year, which was rejected by most Members, and it is precisely because in this time and in this area not much has happened in this direction, at least after our conduct, that we have done it again. Since I used to work in a payment institution myself for days, I know first-hand how they feel about this payment, especially smaller entrepreneurs. All that is not directly related to their business activity is an unnecessary administrative obstacle for them, especially because this is unfortunately also linked to costs. And reforms and reorganisations, in this case the method of payment of compulsory duties, have been several times. Amendments, but additions are necessary, legislation such as this is living matter and is always subject to changes and additions. However, I agree that the problem is not as simple as it looks at first sight, but I would expect the Government to support the proposal at least at the principal level and then resolve the shortcomings in the process itself. It seems to me that it matters whether we want it or not or what we want. If we want it hard enough, we can reach and come to a solution. I believe that it is the task of the State to come against the citizens, their wishes and their needs, especially those from which the State actually collects taxes and a full state budget. And once again, I believe that this is not going to change from today to tomorrow, as we say, it is only a more complex matter. However, since the payment system is, as it is said, complicated, it is necessary to take the first step somewhere, without the first step there is no final solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u178	There is no representative of the Government, nor is there a representative of the proposers, so I am concluding the debate. All the advertised debaters that you wanted to get your word on. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the agenda. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and also interrupt the meeting of the assembly. We will continue the meeting, as you have already been informed, with the 23rd item of the agenda with the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2010-June 2011, at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u179	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Work of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the framework of January 2010-June 2011. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Under the law, the Government is obliged to submit and the National Assembly is obliged to consider a strategy for our country's conduct in the following year and a half in the institutions of the European Union. With your understanding, I would like to try to summarise some of the main points of this declaration, which I understand that it has encountered a favourable response and feedback in the competent parliamentary bodies, with some clarification requirements or proposals for additional emphasis. First, what happened at this time of importance, from the last debate to today. The Treaty of Lisbon has been established. After years of efforts, initially unsuccessful, when the two countries in the referendums rejected the Constitutional Treaty, the period of ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, as some of the corrections to the Constitutional Treaty that we Europeans have decided upon, has passed, once we have found that the European Union institution does not work as it should if we want to meet the expectations of almost half a billion people, it is more effective, more transparent and more democratic. The Treaty of Lisbon is now in force and as the President of the Government and as a member of the European Council, I can already see directly the first, not only symbolic, but also the real movements in the work of the European institutions after its implementation; I mean in some ways and also substantive changes in the work of the European Council. We have received a new President of the European Council, and, as you know, he has chosen Slovenia for the country in which he started his tour as President of the European Council. I think that the Treaty of Lisbon - in my opinion, I was also a member of the Constitutional Commission of the European Parliament - represents an acceptable compromise, good enough for the challenges Europe faces, and that we Europeans have strong enough tools to deal with the fundamental issues of our time. Of course, we need to understand that there are now 27 countries here, that the Treaty of Lisbon, and I will go right beyond that, also allows enlargement, and that there may be more soon, at least two very quickly, that these are countries that, despite the common cultural, valuable, civilisational space, nevertheless bring with them a wealth of differences, including developmental ones, and have to some extent different views on how to proceed. Slovenia is a member of the European Union and is also a member of the eurozone and the Schengen area. I think that this is the emphasis that we need to see, not only within the European Union, but also within the international space, we are an attractive destination, political, economic and small, I will say, political maturity can also, I will say, one dynamic society that can represent one example, one inspiration for countries that want to approach the European Union. And we can help these countries to bring them closer to the European Union, here I am thinking in particular of the Western Balkan countries. I'll talk about it later, too. I would therefore like to point out that we also need to see the global opportunity that Slovenia has and I think that, at least in this sense, if this policy is to be recognised by the National Assembly, this is a good time to strengthen our position in the international community and that we are taking advantage of the opportunities that Slovenia has at this time to take advantage of its comparative advantages over other countries, particularly in this region. The Treaty of Lisbon, as it is said, is point 2, in addition to the fact that it gives us the European Union, governments, national parliaments, including European more powers, more power to decide, it also provides the legal basis for further enlargement. The two countries will certainly be very soon, I think they have successfully concluded negotiations, namely Iceland and Croatia. I think that, for Slovenia, I hope that we have about the same view in this regard, it is very important that enlargement, with a view to dedicating the European Union to other issues, in particular the resolution of the economic, social crisis, does not stop the enlargement process. I am and there, I hope to say this also publicly and clearly, as Prime Minister of the Government in informal talks with my colleagues and colleagues, I feel that there is some kind of silent consensus, that Iceland and Croatia should be included in the European Union, and then, due to the exhaustion of enlargement, we first consolidate our inner species. This view has its meaning because, of course, you, with your powers as well as mine and my fellow ministers and your fellow ministers, can see that Europe certainly needs a new impetus in order to develop a successful, transparent, democratic model of decision-making as a society of 27 countries and nearly half a billion people. What do we miss? We miss, like the opposition in our country many times, as we do in Europe, so that Europe will respond to the challenges of time faster and more effectively. The ways and models of this effective response are not simple if we, of course, want to maintain some kind of sovereignty by transferring it to the European Union bodies to a large extent. In my enlargement, it seems important to me that Slovenia is its advocate, not only in a formal sense, in that we find it good to stand on the side of those who see in expanding the benefits for the European Union and for those countries that will receive these enlargements, but that we are also genuinely working to do so, because it means, in particular, the entry into the European Union of countries that are essentially the proponents of security, stability, the well-being of these countries and nations, and thus the resolution of some of the very complex problems that this south-eastern region is burdened with. I returned last night from a visit to Sarajevo, and I can say that I feel that this could be a part of Europe full of opportunity, but also part of Europe full of danger to the future of the region itself and the entire European Union and the international community. The decision on whether to tilt the issue into opportunity or problem is largely dependent on these countries and nations, but also largely on the minds of the international community, in particular the European Union. I would like to ask this high house whether there is agreement between us that you, with your powers as Members and Members and us as members of the executive branch, will do our utmost to help the countries of the Western Balkans to meet the conditions as soon as possible - without meeting the condition, of course, none of the countries should be privileged - and enter the European Union as soon as possible. For us it is very important that this works, I hope that Croatia will be able to do so as soon as possible. Let me immediately reject any concerns, either here between you or the public, that Slovenia, because of the interest that, like other countries, its neighbours enter the European Union, is in any way failing to negotiate in individual chapters. That's not true. Indeed, it is my sincere thought, whether you believe me or not, that, as a result of improving relations between Ljubljana and Zagreb, we are succeeding in some of the unresolved problems so far to solve them faster and for the benefit of both countries and thus of the European Union. This is my impression of reaching compromises in addressing the issues in certain chapters that we have not been able to reach so far. Slovenia has every right to defend its interests, but it does so in such a way that it does not harm the interests of the neighbouring country. I think we are smart enough here, but also determined enough to be able to do so by strengthening our reputation in the European Union at the same time. The third thing I would like to say is the new Lisbon Strategy, now called Europe 20/20. Those who have followed the emergence of the Lisbon Strategy in more detail, we know that it was coming at the turn of the millennium when Europe was still thinking ambitiously that this year it would be the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world. Today we know that Europe is not the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world. On the contrary, because of one of its particularities, it is very difficult for others to fight for it, and this is the social dimension of Europe. The decision of the European Union, which is also supported by Slovenia, is that Europe must succeed in the global economy in the next decade, despite this and in order to remain a society with a high level of social inclusion. That is to say, what burdens the competitiveness of Europe, as well as the Slovenian economy, is the social dimension of our development. Social cohesion must remain, otherwise Europe also loses what is its specificity and identity. And it is that people in Europe feel safe even when they are socially or otherwise at risk. This dimension of solidarity, which China does not know, which India does not know in this sense, which the United States knows to a lesser extent, threatens our interest in being as competitive as possible. But like us at home, under Slovenian conditions, Europe must also consider in Europe whether it will give up the social dimension. I think that in both our domestic and European cases, this would be a wrong decision. And the President of the European Commission, Barroso, as you know, presented Plan 20/20 to the European Parliament, which is a modernised version or, let's say, a more realistic version of the Lisbon Strategy, which takes into account the fact that, with these parameters, especially in the light of the social dimension, Europe simply cannot be at this point in the game for the most competitive economy in the world and that this is the price we are willing to pay. The fact remains that, of course, China is around 7% at the rate of growth, India at the rate of economic growth around 6% and Europe at the rate of zero growth this year. If we are lucky - Slovenia is among the countries where we expect the growth rate to be close or perhaps under some favourable circumstances even above the average - if even in the European zone the problems of some countries do not change, then it seems to me that in this document 20/20, we need to look at what is attractive, implement, but not rely too much, that this is the solution to our domestic problems. It is only help and we will rely on it as much as it is necessary and important for us and, of course, as much as we are obliged to do it for the sake of solidarity between all countries in the European Union, because we expect this solidarity from them back in other matters of our national interest. But the knowledge that we must have as a country is that Plan 20/20 or the renewed Treaty of Lisbon is not the solution to our homework, but it is only possible that it is an additional inventory or a warning of what is crucial if we are to be over the leading European countries and meet them at home. I would like to say that, despite the fact that we have been criticized for this, and rightly so, Slovenia hassles me with the first countries with an exit strategy. It is a proposal for short- and long-term measures to stabilise public finances at the end of the short-term action required by the financial and economic crisis. In Slovenia, it is said that last year we really witnessed a so-called terrible fall in gross domestic product. That's true, but please, in the same breath, let's realize that in the second half of the same year, we've started the same thing, I'll say, I think, in a great way, we're going to go back, and we're going out of the situation when we recorded 3 and some levels of economic growth at the end of 2008, that we're now approaching the possibility of achieving what we did at the end of the year, or that we're at least close, definitely in positive economic growth, we're saying minus 8 to 0. That this is one big shift up again, and then in time after the recession at a low rate of economic growth in the euro area and in the European Union, we will withstand this trend of consolidation of public finances, and we will not increase the deficit in any way. This is the key thing Slovenia wants to participate in within the European Union, the euro area. Stabilising public finances, measures with the most dynamic economies, in particular German, French, Italian, Austrian, British. These are the countries I want to be with, of course, Luxembourg and other smaller comparable countries such as the Netherlands and Belgium. Here we want to be among these countries that will decide on strategies to make themselves as autonomous as countries more competitive than they are. This is not just our problem, but our problem is that we are not competitive. I'm coming from Gorenje today. Gorenje, as you know, is the most internationalised Slovenian company, has 60 companies in 70 countries. They note that the problems are that it is difficult to pay the leading people working in development because we have a system that is not inclined to do so - it will have to be discussed in this high house. This is a cap on contributions that employers of this type such as Gorenje; and Gorenje is a company that produces final products, which is very important to us, we are not a country that has many final products, in particular, which would have as many goods as Gorenje has; it is said that if we want to achieve this, we need to be more competitive. This is a cost of work, and I think that today, in a group led by Minister Gaspari, we have been talking exactly about changes in labour law, I repeat, in the light of the Lisbon 20/20 strategy led by Europe, we also want to lead a policy to flexibilize the labour market on the one hand, but this does not only mean faster dismissal of workers, it also means rapid employment of workers when it is necessary and optionally at work, I would like to say. And of course a whole series of other active employment policy instruments, as Europe sees and as we see them. Secondly, of course, there is another reflection on how much the economy gives to the country and whether we encourage the most driving part of the Slovenian economy. It is a question of why we are not an investment-interesting environment. We're under-investment. How many contributions, taxes, for example, are there to profit, hampering the view that foreign capital with a larger "breath" sees Slovenia as an investment destination? Is there an opportunity here for innovation and so on, while we have to geopolitically position ourselves, as it were, and I think we are doing well. I am satisfied with this, Slovenia has resolved one big question or will finally be resolved after the ratification of the border agreement has been resolved, now that it has practically good relations with all the leaders of this part of Europe, it can also be positioned within the European Union, as someone with an important political project, as an important part of its co-responsibility for the future of Europe. It is Europe, part of a Europe that comes from a world that remains outside the European Union but is at the same time in the euro area and the euro area. It is not just that we have here the Western Balkans ahead of us, it is that we see the countries of the Arab world, that we see the countries that are now fast, dynamic economies. 70% of our exports to the EU market are basically the reason that we were so dependent on the crisis situation and suffered such damage. I think it is also necessary to make one restructuring of our investments abroad and foreign investments with us. While it seems to me that we are still very sensitive to foreign investments in our country, we see them as a threat to our national interests. The Slovenian Government will decide to propose to the National Assembly a new policy on ownership of the country, the management of property, where we will go on the road - without now declaring some fundamental structural changes at this point, not in the sale of silver, as is commonly said in the public eye, but in a sound consideration of what is indeed in the interest of the State, to remain in the majority of state ownership of what we own, and what is in our national interest that it is not in our possession, but that, for example, a transparent and efficient way to sell to those who will manage this property more successfully than Slovenia succeeds. Let us move forward with the points that are the subject of the declaration. As you know, according to Ljubljana, they call themselves the so-called Ljubljana Research Area, which is the development of a single research space, i.e. in the European Union countries. Last time I mentioned this, I would like to say again, because, at least I am personally fascinated by this data, only Google invests annually for new research and development more than the 7th Framework Programme of the European Union together. Watch out. One company of young boys invests together in research and development of more than 27 traditional old countries of the old continent for research and development, with Slovenia in debt. We have tried to fix these things in the balance sheet and in the new budget 2010/2011. Slovenia is correcting the share of gross domestic product for research and development, but we will be able to measure our results with results not with the money we will spend on this. Let me say that we have decided on one new instrument, it is the so-called national conferences, it will be one on innovation and the other on investment. It is about calling together the entire Slovenian profession, as well as the European as necessary, and taking a step forward in making us an innovation more attractive environment than we are, because in this sense we will catch up to Europe, which has set it up as a plan in its programme. Come in. Climate change. I was in Copenhagen, and I am thankful that I could personally witness an event that only as an indicator symbolized important political and structural movements in the international community. Power centres not only move politically, but in particular from the traditional capitals to new capitals, and we need to understand this. The crowd was not around the heads of government of traditional countries, but around the Chinese and Indian prime ministers. In both countries this year, the Slovenian delegation, together with the economists, also goes. Why am I saying this about climate change? Because this is a typical example of how Europe sees sustainable development and environmental dimension. I spoke earlier about social issues, while, of course, China or India, which do not have such a valuable view of the future, simply does not seem to have the same goals and the same denials as we are prepared to have Europeans, in order to leave a new generation tomorrow, at least about the same fresh air, the same beautiful nature and the possibility of living a better and better life. And that's the problem. I have had, as I say, fate has given me this opportunity to see from a close perspective what a global change in political and economic power in the world looks like. And at one point, which seemed to me only, I'll say, but less important is crucial. These are climate change. There has been a great reflection of everything that appears not least in our home, but we can assess ourselves at home, reflect on the ability of climate change, how we respond to it. It is not just that we have set up the Climate Change Office, we have a new director, it is about how much Slovenia can contribute now. We have decided to move forward with a more developed part of Europe, that we are ready to give up in order to preserve a beautiful Slovenia and also a beautiful Europe. But the question is how long will Europe withstand the environmental dimension of sustainable development? It is difficult to sustain the social dimension if it wants to remain a country or community committed to these objectives while competing with countries that obviously do not belong, at least today, in this context. Come in. It's about energy policy. A similar question, only in a different way. As far as Slovenian politics is concerned, we share Europe's strategy, we want to differentiate resources and reduce dependence on one, especially slowly, I will say, we are moving away from fossil fuels as the main energy sources. This discussion on TEŠ6 and its good and bad qualities for the Slovenian future is likely to continue. By then, things must be done in accordance with the decisions already taken. There's no doubt about that. We will discuss nuclear energy, the second block, we will discuss the pipeline and some other decisions, our investments in other renewable sources. What is the problem is that all this costs a lot and that we will have to negotiate with one intelligence here in this high choir, how we will, because we are energy, I will touch on transport policy, how we will be able to make a decision in the coming years, for the first time, if a decision is made and I will take action, modernise Slovenian rail transport, freight and transport, about 9 billion costs this project, over the finger, if we look at it from today's perspective, we know that the motorway has irradiated twice at the time of these works. We're not going to do it ourselves financially. We're gonna need a strategic partner. Are we going to achieve here on this consensus, how are we going to finance this project? Second time, energy package. I already mentioned T6. It's a question of the second block of the nuclear power plant. Are we going to this or not? We ourselves are not able to service these decisions financially; we need a strategic partner to move us into this future together. These are also the problems of our colleagues and colleagues in other countries, but we cannot delay these decisions and will therefore be subject to some decisions this year. Next time I visit Slovenian railways, I would like to draw a line under the problems of the rehabilitation of this great mastodon with losses and to see in Slovenian railways a flexible article of the Slovenian transport scar that will bring, if not profit, at least a zero financial profit. 22 countries have problems, by the way, with railways in seven hundred. Let's move on, because I don't have much time. Stockholm program. We want to be among the advantages of the European area of freedom, security and justice: data protection, strengthening civil and criminal law. All of this will also be the subject of some changes that Slovenia will make into its internal structure and then into the European system. Agricultural policy. Sustainable agriculture, for sure. Our goal is to preserve the countryside as it is, the population structure is 50:50, 50 in cities, 50 in rural areas. Slovenia wants to maintain this model. If our people, especially the young generation, are to remain in the countryside, quality of life will have to be maintained at the same level as those who want to live in an urban settlement. Thus, Slovenia will have to develop absolutely as a territorially coherent country. And agriculture has an important role here, not because of the value of BD, but as an element of a whole range of problems, of course, and the Slovenian government is aware of that. Fishing, although fishing means an even smaller volume, is the volume of GDP. For us it is important, we are a maritime state, we must maintain this activity. And Slovenia will try to preserve Slovenia's maritime traditions and modernise them with a common fisheries policy led by the European Union in order to bring some economic factor to the local and wider area. Here are some other projects that Slovenia will run within the European Union as an active factor. Because I'm running out of time, that's all I want to say in the end. When we talk about European policy, we are talking about our policy - this is not foreign policy, this is our policy - and it is as much ours as we will be active in all the institutions of the European Union. I think that Slovenia has, as it is said, well positioned itself, as the Presidency of the European Union, has done a good job. I think that we have then resolved the complication that threatened our interests, not only because it is a border issue, but also because we have remained misunderstood in our own stubbornness and our desire to resolve the problem in the public eye, in accordance with our own interests. That is how we resolved it, without jeopardising the interests of the countries to which we want them to be in the European Union as soon as possible because of both our interests and their interests. We are among the countries that are now relatively quick to solve the problems of the financial and economic crisis. We have the possibility that we will be in a group of countries that will remain above zero economic growth at the end of the year. But we have a whole bunch of dilemmas that the European Union and we, transport, energy, climate and so on, which are probably not yet the subject of a pure consensus, far from that, in Slovenia, and that still awaits us. Well, let the European Declaration be an introduction to these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you, Prime Minister. The proposal for a declaration was addressed as competent working bodies by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 47th meeting on 19 February this year, the Committee on European Union Affairs considered as a competent working body the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2010-June 2011, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and reception on 28 December 2009. Within the time limit set, the amendments to the proposal for a declaration were tabled by the following speakers: the Commission for the National Community to the Chapter Special Issues of Slovenia, the contribution to the diversity of the European Union, to the Chapter Education, Culture, Sport and to the Chapter of Justice and Home Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food to the Chapter Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Food, and I myself have tabled as a Member of the Group of Social Democrats to the Chapter of the Horizontal Affairs of the Single Amendment. On 18 February 2010, the Government forwarded to the National Assembly its opinion on the amendments of the Commission for the National Communities and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly to the proposal for a declaration and the amendment of the Government to that document. The Government of the amendments to the working bodies of the National Assembly does not support them, and until the end of the 47th meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler has not formally defined himself. The introductory presentation of the proposal was made by the mag. Mr Andreja Jerina, State Secretary of the Office of the Government for European Affairs and Development, presented the main points of the proposal. She explained that the aim of the proposal for a declaration, a text which is relatively general, is to present transparently the orientations of the Republic of Slovenia for parts of the European Union in terms of national priorities and also in terms of European Union priorities. The proposal for a declaration was prepared in accordance with the European Commission's 2010 work programme and the 18-month programme of the next Union presidency. The document consists of two parts: the first focuses on the key policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia to operate in the institutions of the European Union during a given period and the second focuses on sectoral priorities for work in the world. At the beginning of the discussion, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, a member of the Health Committee, as rapporteur, presented the Committee's position on the proposal for a declaration. On behalf of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs in the State Council, Mr Vincenz Otonič also presented his position on the proposal for a declaration. The amendments have been presented and explained by the amendments, and the Government has given its opinion on them. Since the Government of Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Food, proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, is not fully in favour of the amendment, the Council proposed its own text to the Council on procedural grounds. This text, in the fifth paragraph of subsection Safe and quality food, fully summarises part of the text of the amendments of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In the fourth paragraph concerning genetically modified organisms, however, the Government proposes a text which partially summarises the amendments of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The EU Affairs Committee has thus voted on the amendment with the text proposed by the Government. Thus, in Chapter Special Issues of Slovenia, the contribution to the diversity of the European Union, the last paragraph of this Chapter is followed by the following paragraphs: "Slovenia will endeavour to comply consistently with the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which stipulate that the European Union is also based on respect for human rights, including the rights of members of traditional national, ethnic and linguistic minorities. As a member of the European Union, it will advocate that the European Union respects, preserves and develops linguistic and cultural diversity and multilingualism." For the second time, a new paragraph is added after the first paragraph in the section of the horizontal matter in the sub-chapter of the institutional matter: "In the light of the new provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, which has formally incorporated national parliaments into the decision-making process at European Union level, the Republic of Slovenia will pay attention to the in-depth role of the National Assembly. It will thus effectively monitor the work of the Government and ensure its responsibility in the handling of European Union cases, while contributing to the good functioning of the European Union in particular by ensuring respect for the principle of subsidiarity in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality." I apologize. Obviously, we have not adopted a number of amendments on the Committee on European Union Affairs, which you have also received in writing. Finally, at its 47th meeting on 19 February this year, the European Union Affairs Committee adopted the updated proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2010-June 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Janji Klasinc, President of the Foreign Policy Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Honorable Council of Ministers. At its 28th regular meeting on 19 February this year, on the basis of Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a declaration submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the Cooperation Act on matters of the European Union and on the basis of its Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee has thus carried out, in accordance with its competences, its consideration of the proposal for a declaration in the field of foreign and security policy. Initially, she is Secretary of State of the Government for Development and European Affairs Mag. Andreja Jerina presented the structure of the declaration to the Committee and Dragoljub Benčina, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented a proposal for a declaration focusing on issues of common foreign and security policy. She introduced us to individual sub-chapters in this area. First, the Western Balkans and enlargement. Accession negotiations with Croatia and Turkey will continue this year. The European Commission proposed a discussion on the date for the start of accession negotiations with the Republic of Macedonia, and it is also possible to open accession negotiations with the Republic of Montenegro, which submitted its request last April and with Iceland, which applied for membership last July. Another time. European Neighbourhood Policy. Slovenia will advocate a comprehensive strengthening of relations between the European Union and the countries of the European Neighbourhood Policy. Third time. Respect for human rights and civil crisis management. Slovenia will promote the promotion of children's rights to gender equality, the elimination of all forms of discrimination, racism and xenophobia and human rights education. Fourth time. Culture in EU external relations. Slovenia will strive to promote culture in the external relations of the European Union as a factor in promoting intercultural dialogue with third countries, in preventing conflicts and in reconciliation processes. Fifth. International development cooperation. Slovenia will be involved in the design and implementation of development policies at EU level. The priority region for the development cooperation of Slovenia is the Western Balkans. And six times. Security and defense. Slovenia will continue its efforts to further develop the common security and defence policy in all three pillars, operations, institutions and capacities. In doing so, it will pay particular attention to the implementation of the elements of the Treaty of Lisbon and the further implementation of the European Security Strategy. Mr Vincenc Otonič, representative of the Council of State, presented to the Committee the opinion of the Commission on International Relations and European Affairs of the Council, which had considered the proposal for a declaration and had no comments to it. In the debate, the members of the Committee considered that the proposal for a declaration was correctly prepared but perhaps too general in some chapters. They highlighted the need for greater involvement of Slovenia in bringing Macedonia closer to the European Union, in particular with regard to setting a date for the start of accession negotiations. They proposed that Slovenia seek to include a separate debate on Kosovo, on the institutions of the EU, because it is not enough to address this issue only in the Western Balkans debates. The issue of European Union cooperation with Latin America and the state of relations with Cuba was also raised. Some security and defence issues have also been raised, particularly with regard to Slovenia's participation in all three pillars of the Common Security and Defence Policy, Operations, Institutions and Capacity. In particular, the European Union Operation Atalanta in the waters of Somalia has been exposed, which may be under-emphasized in the proposal for a declaration. Ms Dragoljub Benčina, State Secretary, and the Political Director of the Ministry, Mr Matej Marn, answered the questions raised. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted by consensus the proposal by Committee member Anton Anderlič that the Government forwards to the National Assembly a work plan for the greater role of women in international operations and missions mentioned in the proposal for a declaration. The Committee has also adopted the amendment to Chapter External Affairs and Defence, the sub-chapter of the Western Balkans and the enlargement included in the supplementary proposal for a declaration. After the discussion and the vote, the Committee also supported the proposal for a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Peter Verlič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u186	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleague and fellow Members. 50% of Slovenes polled in the last Eurobarometer survey answered the question whether they consider Slovenia's membership in the European Union to be a good thing. And only 13% of Slovenes responded negatively. More than 64% of the Slovenian respondents believe that membership in the European Union of Slovenia benefits. Furthermore, a total of two thirds of the respondents replied that they were very optimistic about the future of the European Union. Thus, Slovenians in the European Union feel well and are positively defined. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that this optimism and positive attitude of Slovenians towards Slovenia as full-fledged members of the European Union will be able to implement the Government through the witnessing declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions during the period January 2010 to June 2011. As stated in the proposal for a declaration, the Slovenian Government, with a proposal for this declaration, as well as the National Assembly, sees as major challenges in the new period mainly in the effective implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon, in the rapid exit from the economic and financial crisis, in the appropriate face of climate change, in the comprehensive and thorough reform of the budget of the European Union, in strengthening the area of security, justice and freedom, in support of the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans and in strengthening the role of the European Union in the world. In doing so, it is important for Slovenia at European Union level to strive for economically and environmentally acceptable solutions adapted to the specificities of Slovenian physical and social space. That's how the government thinks. What is the concern of the citizens of Slovenia? If we go back to the Eurobarometer survey, we are the most afraid of unemployment in Slovenia and the second place of the economic situation. That's what more than half the respondents thought. In order to make the situation worse in the country in the next 12 months, 40% of Slovenian citizens questioned responded. At the personal level, we, such a survey, are the first to worry about price increases, followed by economic situation, unemployment, health system, pensions, taxes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect the Government to implement the declaration in a way that will address the problems faced by ordinary citizens. The European Union must not be a crowd of officials in Slovenian and Brussels corridors who would make individual chapters possible by moving documents from office A to office B, but must serve citizens who are concerned about unemployment, prices, economic crisis, taxes, pensions. Is this challenge to this government through the European perspective? According to the last public opinion survey conducted by the Faculty of Applied Social Studies, this government has only 35% support for Slovenian elections and voters, which means that confidence in the ability and operationality of this government to solve real problems has fallen heavily in the eyes of ordinary citizens. Therefore, we find it difficult to believe that the challenges and tasks of this declaration will be more successful by the Government. Finally, let us draw attention to the chapter in the Transport Declaration, which has also been touched by the President of the Government. This is where the Union intends to renew its decision on priority transport corridors. Please note that the Slovenian government must not allow the 6th priority project, which takes place in the cross-border work between Trieste and Divaca and Kopro and Divaca and beyond Ljubljana to Hodoš and Budapest, to pass Slovenia through Italy and Austria. We also note that during the previous government, the priority project Salzburg - Jesenice - Ljubljana - Dobova was adopted at the working level of the European Union High Representative Group. I am also very pleased that the government's visits to Slovenian railways have already produced fruit, because he has now found out what we in the previous government have already calculated that the reconstruction project will cost EUR 9 billion - his transport minister does not believe it yet. So the Prime Minister is really assisted by visits to Slovenian railways. So the railways have already convinced us. While we will not object to the declaration in the SDS Group, it is optimistic, not least until the future of the European Union, according to the Eurobarometer. [[?]] define two thirds of the Slovenian and Slovenian respondents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr Franci Kek will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Respectable. We have before us the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions during January 2010 June 2011. In the Group of Members, we really support the proposal for a declaration, which is quite extensive, but I will not talk about it in general, but I will touch on some of the chapters that we consider important in the Group of Members. On agriculture, the economy and fisheries and nutrition, we believe that in the chapter fisheries should add this year's declaration by the National Assembly on the North Adriatic. Surely, for the Group of Ambassadors, safe and quality food is an important area. Our colleague, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, proposed an amendment that commits the Republic of Slovenia to defend the precautionary principle in the debates, to vote against the introduction and processing of new genetically modified organisms, and to take the view that Member States have the right to decide independently on the cultivation and processing of genetically modified organisms in their area. The proposal of Mrs Zalokar Orazem also states in this chapter that the Republic of Slovenia will present a position in this regard, highlighting the interests of consumer protection and the protection of human health, including good business practices in international food transport. We're missing ACER guidance on the energy chapter. We also believe that the Republic of Slovenia should advocate for the agency's work and its active role in external energy policy as soon as possible. In the section on foreign affairs and defence under the sub-chapter of the Union for the Mediterranean, we believe that we should add guidance to the Euro-Mediterranean University on the development of the university, on teaching staff and on promotion or on the student population. We believe that it is in the Slovenian interest to attract as many resources from the EU as possible to ensure security in the Balkans. The Republic of Slovenia could define in the declaration resources for the emergence of international threats, peace, security and economic development in the region. These sources are poverty, the uneven development of cultural and religious practices that lead to open conflicts between cultural identities. We believe that in the section Environmental Policy is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to promote policies for sustainable tourism. Current projections in global tourism are from Asia to Europe by air. For the Republic of Slovenia, this means, within the EU, opposition to physical scanners and any provision that physically or emotionally impedes the movement of people. In the field of employment and social affairs, the Republic of Slovenia should take full advantage of all options to preserve the quality of life of the ageing population by integrating the rapidly ageing population into new forms of work. Poorly defined priorities for ensuring as much employment as possible and creating jobs with a higher added value are identified. In the previous declaration, for example, in this chapter we defended the security of flexibility for which the crisis and structural disadvantage in Slovenia highlighted the instability of employment and the inactive employment policy. In spite of all the above, we believe that the proposal for a declaration is a good basis for the work of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions, and that is why we will really support it in the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present his position, or excuse me, Mr Presečnik, Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, if there was any other order, it wouldn't be a big deal. Dear Minister, Madam Ministers, distinguished Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions during January 2010-June 2011 follow the main directions of our country from previous periods and can therefore also be supported. The first part identifies the key policy orientations of our country for operating in the European Union institutions and the second part sets priorities for working in the Council of the European Union during that period, which are prepared under the 18-month programme of the Presidency of the countries of Spain, Belgium and Hungary, and on the basis of the legislative and work programme of the European Commission for this year. The key challenges for Slovenia during this period will certainly be the effective implementation of the Lisbon Treaty, the face of climate change and the strengthening of the area of security, justice and freedom in line with the Stockholm Programme adopted in December last year. Strengthening its role in the world is also important for the future of Europe. In our view, Slovenia must be more actively and effectively involved in policy-making in the European Union, and we must not just receive and be statisticians on the stage or on the political floor of the EU. In the area of social affairs, we believe that Slovenia must continue to stand for exceptions. In transport policy it is right that Slovenia supports the principle of co-modality, and no way of transport must be privileged. In doing so, we must be careful not to become inactive, to lose the advantage that we have with Luka Koper by crossing the V. and X. corridor and with the important geostrategic position of Slovenia in order to retain comparative advantages over other countries in the region after this concept. We support the country's planned efforts to implement measures to promote active citizenship and intercultural learning, social inclusion and solidarity, as well as voluntary activities that will be at the forefront of the 2011 volunteer year. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are against the rapid opening and closing of chapters in the pre-accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia. We reiterate that Slovenia should not give up on border requirements with Croatia. We are needlessly here, I think we have already sacrificed some Slovenian territory. In the enlargement of the European Union, we must consistently defend the condition of meeting the conditions for the inclusion of new countries, just as Slovenia had to meet all the conditions. Furthermore, we believe that our country should act more decisively and act on Italy's behaviour with regard to gas terminals, which may affect all neighbouring countries, the environment, air and water. We need to take a firm stand on this issue, because it is a grave attack into space, not just pollution of the environment. We support the additions adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as by the Committee on European Union Affairs. We also believe that Slovenia should strengthen and protect the rights of small-scale fishermen in coastal fishing, ensure specificity of farming in small farms and speed up the improvement of the health situation, as there are not enough declared guidelines for equalising or reducing health differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable ministerial assembly with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2010-June 2011. The proposal for a declaration is prepared on the basis of the European Commission's annual legislative and work programme for 2010 and the 18-month programme of the Presidency of Spain, Belgium and Hungary to the Council of the European Union. Its primary purpose, however, is to contribute to the targeted functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. The proposal for a declaration is divided into two submissions, the first part of which presents the key policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia for the operation of the European Union institutions for the period January 2010 to June 2011. In the second part, the priorities for action in the Council of the European Union are presented in the same period, with sectoral priorities being set out in specific areas. Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons have reviewed the declaration. In particular, we have reviewed the chapter on Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as our activity focuses on a socially fair country in which every individual will be granted a decent life. It follows from this part that Slovenia will be committed to strengthening social security and inclusion while ensuring the sustainability of social security systems. The new development strategy for Europe must set a framework that will at the same time ensure a way out of the current financial and economic crisis, while reducing social disparities and ensuring gender equality. The European Year 2010 will mark the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Slovenia will contribute in a variety of ways to the achievement of the objectives set. Slovenia will also be an active participant in the preparation of the legal basis for the European Year of Ageing 2012. We support the view that Slovenia will actively cooperate and promote the strengthening of the principles of equality of disputes, in particular by focusing on the elimination of differences in pay to men and women, and will also advocate the establishment of a uniform level of protection against discrimination due to faith or belief, due to disability, ageing, age or sexual orientation. The proposal for a declaration went through a number of working bodies in the National Assembly, which positively identified themselves to it, and there is no reason why the DeSUS Group should not be positively defined until this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will postpone the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! The declaration we have before us is only important for Slovenia and Slovenian citizens only. As important as it is to them, the way is, of course, important and acceptable. Europe has received a new legal order, a new legal basis which binds Slovenia in the same way as Europe commits to Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we are always and always will take the view that these two countries, although one member of the other is larger, equal, in fact even more, Slovenia is more equal than Europe. No one has ever, at least I have not heard, mentioned the important novelty or important content of the new legal basis and as declarations. This was introduced in the form of an amendment, but is most important, namely the role of the National Assembly, which gives it a greater role, greater power and greater control over the decision-making and codecision of the Government. The new legal basis also offers the possibility of successful development of Slovenia. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, a member of the euro area, a member of the Schengen Round, and it is particularly important that Slovenia has its Commissioner. And that's a lot for Slovenia. That is why we know and imagine that Europe is the one that wants Slovenia and will help it when Slovenia is also in trouble and not too much of a turnaround. Expansion. The declaration states that Slovenia supports the enlargement of the European Union. That is what we agree with. This enlargement and support for this enlargement should be equal for all. It is clear to all of us here, perhaps no one hopes to tell us that Bulgaria and Romania have overstepped their maturity, but they are already members. We all know that the two countries that are approaching Europe are Croatia and Iceland, so close not because of their efforts and work, but because of the individual interest policies of the Member States of the European Union. Iceland submitted a request last year and will almost be in Europe. It is not right for those countries, I stress the words of the Prime Minister that Bosnia can be a land of opportunity or a land of danger. We stress that the enlargement of the Western Balkan countries is necessary, that we want them all to do so together, and that no one is saying that this is particularly important and that security in this area must be rushed here. If this does not happen quickly, this area will again become dangerous. Slovenia is specific in the fisheries, agriculture and tourism field, and Slovenia must implement the common fisheries policy and must demand incentives for its agriculture, as it is also specific to agriculture in difficult places available, however important. I hope that there will be Spain, Belgium and Hungary during this period of Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators has been established in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know what's gonna happen to what we've talked about a few times. Slovenia has promised to advocate a zero value added tax rate on books in countries where small linguistic communities are. This commitment is written down, and we will see if it will be realized. Slovenia is committed to energy security and supports the interrelationship and interdependence of energy supply in Europe, but it will be acceptable for the Slovenian National Party only when Slovenia has its energy independence. Slovenia is a Mediterranean and Danube state. And with its independence from macro-regional links, it can support the EU strategy for the Danube region. There is nothing written about trafficking in human beings, what Slovenia will do, because Slovenia has become a country of origin and destination for trafficking in human beings. And that's it. The main task in this declaration is written down, which is that Slovenia must, in particular, only defend Slovenian interests in the European Union and I hope that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u196	Nicely greeted! It is clear that Slovenia is a state of paradoxes. On the one hand, yesterday's debate from 1945 to 1990, hours and hours, today when we look to the future, when we discuss what we need to do to make citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia live better, more freely, more peaceful in these difficult turbulent times, we have all the bad hours at hand. At the top of the Constitutional Treaty, we have received the Treaty of Lisbon, which requires all parliaments, states to turn also to nationals and nationals of each country, and to try, together with other national parliaments, to set some priorities, some policies that could also be common to all others. We believe that a declaration is an opportunity where guidelines are framed, priorities for what the country, individual institutions of the country, should do in the institutions of the European Union. However, is this not also an opportunity to turn to ourselves, to turn to citizens and to try to determine whether this path, which has been crossed in the European Union, in all these institutions, has already given any experience. Isn't there anything else you need to do? It seems reasonable to us, we are in the European Union, we are members of the so-called large family or, indeed, the life of citizens and citizens in any area covered by the declaration is such that we can with optimism time to the future and this year to which this declaration refers. I believe that some of the discussions this year will help us to put what we need, as the highest legislative body - Parliament, in cooperation with the other parliaments, to make certain policies closer to the citizens and, on the other hand, to improve communication with the Government in those decisions that are being drawn up in other institutions of the European Union. We can be relatively satisfied that we are effective in certain areas, which are also accompanied by the working bodies of the National Assembly and the National Assembly itself, but many times are also asked questions before citizens and citizens, whether this framework in which we now operate is true, effective and whether the results are also the best. When talking about the role of Slovenia, and here there have already been some debates about the Western Balkans, our opportunities, with our obligations, our obligations to the neighbourhood, we were concerned and I hope that it will be different from now on, and also in the Committee debates it has been stressed that the question has to be asked: How, after two years of recognition, Kosovo is not a functioning country, is still half under the protectorate and some other institutions working there, with daily life, training institutions and so on. Europe will obviously never be able to recognise the country of Kosovo, because the reasons are more or less well-known, but it is also not justified that, now that we are talking about visa liberalisation as well as the question of joining the European Union, Kosovo is not on any list, but only in a package with the Western Balkans, the relations of Serbia-Kosovo sometimes appear. Our proposal is that this package also specifically raises the issue of the future fate and prospects of Kosovo as a single country in the European Union, since any decision of the International Court of Justice regarding Kosovo's secession or independence will still remain Kosovo with all its problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Laszlo Göncz will present the position of the Hungarian and Italian national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Member of the National Communities will support the updated Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in the period January 2010 - June 2011, as the proposed text represents, to a large extent, a plan for directing the activities of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. We hope that most of these guidelines will also be implemented. In terms of content, I will not go down in depth, much has already been said, and to a large extent we agree with this. We are pleased that the committee responsible, i.e. the Committee on European Union Affairs, has taken into account and supported our efforts or proposed amendments to the Commission for National Communities to improve the text of the declaration in view of the high level of legal protection of national rights in the Republic of Slovenia. After a thorough examination of the individual areas of the quality text of the proposal for a declaration and the chapter of the priorities for the period January 2010 - June 2011, we have assessed that, due to the even more qualitative and credible level of text of the declaration, it is only necessary to supplement or upgrade the declaration on the basis of a good and avoidable practice of protecting the rights of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. In the light of the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the additions systematically included in the original proposed text were further desirable. The proposed amendments, which are now an integral part of the proposed declaration, were adopted unanimously at a meeting of the Commission for National Communities. Once again, let me stress that we will support the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u200	Respected and respected! Let us first, on behalf of our parliamentary group, welcome today's performance by Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who not only highlighted the key points of the declaration on the orientations of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union but also identified key points, according to our firm conviction of a courageous political vision and strategy in the coming years. We therefore consider that the guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the European Union and in the design of European policies are good. This declaration also strengthens the new dimension of our membership of the European family, that we must not only look at the policies of the European Union from the point of view of domestic policy, but we must build our confidence that we, too, are the European Union, and Slovenia is the European Union. In shaping European policies, we should therefore not only be interested in the question of what a European policy means for us in Slovenia, but in what some European policy means for the whole of the European Union and its role in the world. This is particularly important at a time when the world is changing dynamically and when it becomes completely different from the one on which our performance of Europe was based in the second half of the 20th century. In this respect, the European Union, with all its weaknesses and strengths, is worth the most advanced international integration of national countries in the world, which has been able in a democratic and peaceful way to set an example for countries to participate in meeting their common needs and to realize common opportunities. At a time when the forces of the world are rapidly changing and the pressures of this power are increasingly moving from the west to the east, at a time when climate change radically changes our environmental, economic and social circumstances, at a time when the economic and financial crisis has seriously shaken the myths on which the global economy is built, and at a time when the future seems to be more frightening and not encouraging again, the role and importance of the European Union, especially the work to strengthen its role and democratic outlook in the world, is more important than ever. Therefore, Slovenia's contribution to European policies at this time is so much more important and requires a much more in-depth debate that we have had on the working bodies of the National Assembly. Also to understand the opportunities we have in this changed world of the 21st century, both in Slovenia and together as Europe. The clearly designed guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia contribute to the transparent and predictable regulation of European affairs on all those issues that the European Union adopts at intergovernmental level, in the European Parliament and also in this new dimension, brought by the Treaty of Lisbon, i.e. by strengthening the role of national parliaments and between the 27 national parliaments, including the National Assembly. We Social Democrats are committed to exploiting this enhanced role of the National Assembly in order to bring European policies closer to our citizens and citizens, European citizens and citizens. In doing so, we insist on some of the strategic dilemmas highlighted by our Prime Minister in his performance that the Western Balkans is and must be a key foreign policy priority for Slovenia. And in the same voice, we also welcome the intention to open up new opportunities around the world, especially in new markets where we see the potential to strengthen our economic presence, by strengthening diplomatic relations with countries that have not been so close to us so far. At the same time, this area of the Western Balkans will open wide doors for a democratic European perspective, which will also benefit our economic interests, and let us not forget the strong cultural ties that bind Slovenia to the opportunities of this space. That is why we Social Democrats are at the forefront of the effort to open the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs to the public and thus contribute to transparent and public monitoring of Slovenian efforts to create smart European policies. We will support the Declaration of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration. The decision on the proposal for a declaration will be made today in the framework of the vote, which will be in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. I am also adjourning the 14th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u202	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted 23 to 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 46 to 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Economic Zones Act. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 62 against 2. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, the reduced procedure. As no further consideration of the amendments to the amended draft law has been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present, 64, against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 29 to 35. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 37. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 27 to 37. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 37. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 28 to 34. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 26. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on excise duties. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 16. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 18. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 35. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. Since the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, in the context of the morning debate on the proposal for a law, pointed out that the proposal for a law on the adoption of the amendments to Article 10 and Article 52 in the second reading and at the meeting of the home working body had been inconsistent, the Government had drawn up the harmonisation amendment you had received on the bench. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Križanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u203	Your Honor, thank you very much. The adoption of amendments relating to the increase in the lower limit values for low-value contracts has led to a discrepancy between the provisions governing procurement procedures, the publication of contracts, the inclusion of minimum-value contracts and the communication of statistical data. It is essentially editorial corrections and, in accordance with the aforementioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the harmonisation amendments to Articles 11 and 49 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement and Articles 10 and 52 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Anyone want a word, honourable Members and Members of Parliament? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted for 48 against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Government has sent two harmonisation amendments to the Assembly to this point, but we have actually adopted the two harmonisation amendments by this vote. It's the rules of procedure. The same will be done at the 9th item of the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted, 46 to 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted for 28 votes to 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 36 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 37. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Since the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, in the course of the morning debate on the draft law, pointed out that, due to the amendments adopted to Article 11 and Article 49 in the second reading at the meeting of the home labour body, the Government had drawn up an uncoordinated harmonisation amendment which you had received at the bench. Is there a government representative who wants to talk about the harmonisation amendment? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u205	Respectable. Actually, I've already introduced the amendment. It is a correction of the editorial nature relating to procurement procedures, the publication of contracts, the exclusion of contracts with minimum values and the communication of statistical data, and Articles 11 and 49 are being corrected. Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Do any of the Members and Members want a word on this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate and I would like to point out that we will vote just as before. In accordance with the rules of procedure, one harmonisation amendment is in force, although two harmonisation amendments have been sent but the materials have been coordinated. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 18. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 19. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions during the period January 2010 - June 2011. As the amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this resolution, but with the desire that, in the field of the situation and problems of national minorities or in Slovenia of national communities, we have now become a national minority, from constitutional dictatorship, the national community has been demolished into a national minority. I would like to see that all this efforts by Slovenia within the European Union will also be inwardly reversed with the same intensity on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-03-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. There are 66 Members and Members, 66, against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye!
