ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! As the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is still taking place, I regret to inform you that the start of the 28th extraordinary meeting has been postponed to 4 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before formally starting the meeting, I should like to inform you that I have been informed that the report of the Committee on Internal Policy is in the final stage of preparation and will be on your bench in less than 30 minutes. I propose that we, however, begin the meeting to accept if we adopt the agenda and listen to the presentations. Then, of course, if there were no reports, the session would be suspended for so long. The amendments of one of the groups of Members have been announced. We certainly have to allow them this time according to this.Then we continue the debate. Do we agree not to wait too long? Okay. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Janja Klasinc, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, mag. Branko Grimes, Jože Tanko and Daniel Krivec. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to both agenda items. I welcome them very much, and I also welcome the President of the Government of Mr Pahor. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 2 September 2010. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the agenda for the 28th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of the bill amending the system of payments in the public sector within the framework of the emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u3	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Prior to the meeting last year at its first meeting, the Statistical Office announced that the fall of gross domestic product was 9.4%. This year, when we meet, for the first time, the state statistical office predicts growth or announces growth for the second quarter of this year's 2.2% plus. Slovenia has survived the hardest part of the recession, the worst part of the crisis is behind us. We have begun the path of slow, reliable economic recovery. Now is the time to do our utmost to encourage these first but reliable calls for economic recovery. The shared fate of the public sector in the real sector is also an integral part of economic recovery. When a collective contract for the public sector was adopted in the first half of 2008, economic growth was 6.3%. No one can point either to Minister Virant or to the Government in the previous term, which has tried to eliminate some imbalances and injustices, or to ensure the rights of public servants who have been on this right for a long time, so that Slovenia can take advantage of its opportunities to join the euro and thus continue its path of membership in important international monetary, political and economic institutions. But immediately after that, it started in international, financial later, other real estate markets in the global economy, the process of economic downturn. Slovenia was part of this. It was necessary to act. How did we decide on this in Slovenia? At the end of 2008, did the Slovenian government say: "The Virant reform is justified at the time of the merger, 450 million is worth, can Slovenia transfer this reform, yes or no, in the new circumstances of the collapse of GDP and economic growth? Will we give up all the rights that public servants have, yes or no?" What did the Slovenian government do? She did not go with the intervention law and said, "Because there have been important changes in economic life, global and domestic life, we will withdraw agreements between the social partners on public sector wages and the elimination of imbalances", but she decided to start social dialogue with them and led him to the extent that most of the wage reform is under the roof. This moment, when in Slovenia too, not only for the government's actions, the crisis did not finally occur for the sake of the previous government, but because of the recession in the world's widest economic space, but also because of the government's actions we have witnessed hesitation. Now is the time, as I say, to do everything we can to ensure that this recovery will not be compromised. Now is the time that, after we have settled the majority, let's say, the injustices that have been committed to public officials, because on their shoulders, the main success has been to those responsible for leading the country, to bring the country to the euro and thus to end our integration into important institutions in some way. Now we find that the time is right for their wages not to increase with the same dynamics as they would under this same collective agreement, but that it will be temporary until the regrowth, which is now only quarterly, 2.2, will also be as high on an annual basis. Then we will be able to eliminate all the imbalances and injustices that have been removed. So the public sector will share the crisis with the private sector in one fair way during the crisis. As soon as the crisis is resolved, the reasons for this temporary measure will also be removed. As far as trade unions are concerned, promises will also be fulfilled by unfreezing the action we are taking today. This is a fair, proper measure, and I ask the National Assembly to take it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. As I said, you'll get the report on the bench. Otherwise, the proposal for a law amending the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages was discussed by the Committee at today's meeting, which began at 12 noon. The urgency procedure was laid down by the College of the President of the National Assembly 2. 9. 2010 Members and members of the Committee had the following material: draft law, opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the State Council, letter dated 6 from the Police Unions of Slovenia. 9. 2010, a letter from the Confederation of Public Sector Unions of Slovenia proposing amendments to the Committee today. At the meeting we invited: Minister of Public Administration, Law and Law Service, the Council of State and representatives of two groups of trade unions, Mr Poseid and Mr Strukl, although other representatives of trade unions also attended. The introductory explanation was given relatively extensively by the Minister of Public Administration. A number of union representatives, not only Mr Posedi and Mr Strukelj, have also been involved in the debate, but also the other trade unions. In a debate that was relatively controversial, as you can see, even relatively long, the expression of the various views of the coalition and the opposition came to light, although only one member of the coalition participated in the debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the following amendments were tabled to the draft law: amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and amendments to the SDS Group of Members. The amendments tabled by Mr Strukelj as amendments to the Committee. In voting, the situation was as follows: the amendments of the SDS Group were rejected, both amendments of the coalition were confirmed, and thus became the amendment of Mr Possei, which we had as an amendment to the Committee, irrelevant. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together, i.e. including amendments, and adopted them. The integral text or report will be received, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u7	Dear Mr President, honourable President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. The regulation of the wage system in the public sector in the Republic of Slovenia has been a stumbling block virtually since its implementation. It draws attention to the opacity, disproportionateity, deficiency and type of anomalies in terms of the comparability of wages. Nevertheless, these are not as drastic cases as Greek civil servants are heard. On the other hand, not for such a regulated system as is practiced by the Scandinavian countries and by the bodies of the European Union. The fact is, we found ourselves somehow in a post-crisis period. When it is necessary to simply reverse each euro and to reduce those costs or public spending costs where possible and which sustain it. We in the DeSUS Group, already in July, when we discussed the amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act, warned that the greater drastic intervention in this segment, which we had already announced at that time, would probably not withstand any significant arguments. We are convinced that it is essential to approach the removal of all the anomalies in the pay system, which often mean, although legally permissible, but nevertheless abuse of the legal provisions that cause unreasonable wage supplements, excessive supplements. Today we are Members of the National Assembly placed in a very awkward situation. The decision, which is supposed to be the result of a social agreement between the two sides, the government and the unions, is now essentially placed on our shoulders, which is certainly not good. Maybe it's not a good trip even for further union deals with government representatives. In short, Members of the DeSUS are aware that the adoption of this law is important both in terms of establishing a quorum for adoption and amending the collective agreement, as well as in terms of budgetary sustainability, as it is clear to everyone what the proposed solution has. Members of the DeSUS hope and expect union negotiations with the Government to continue and that the latter will conclude such an agreement that will satisfy both sides. This is, in fact, the only chance that there will be no so-called Black September 27th. At this point, Members of the DeSUS understand the impact of trade unions, but in the interest of financial sustainability, which is urgently needed at this time. We support the Government's efforts and will vote accordingly in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u9	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear President of the Government, distinguished Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, in the Slovenian National Party, we rediscover and categorically reject any form of government work when Members of the National Assembly put us before the enforcement of the fact and the enforcement of decisions on matters and problems that the Government presents in some way as an unprecedented situation and the only reasonable solution to the problems of the public sector wage system. We understand that it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure public financial stability. We welcome all activities in terms of achieving this objective. But allow me to begin a presentation of my position in the very selection of the procedure for dealing with the law in question, this is the way in which the law is adopted by emergency procedure. That this, to put it mildly, is an abuse of the national assembly procedure that we can also justify. Already in the College of the President of the National Assembly, we have opposed the adoption of legislation in this particular case by representatives of two parliamentary groups, namely the SNS and the SDS. We are nowhere to see the proper fulfilment of the criteria of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which speaks of the preconditions for the application of the procedure for the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. Therefore, either the impact of the State's security or defence interests, or the urgency of measures to address the consequences of natural disasters or disasters, or the prevention of difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. If I understand the Minister's interpretations and discussions correctly, it would be possible to include the problem at issue in the context of the last justification for the reasons for the urgency procedure, which is once again in conflict with the argument that the adoption of this law does not provide for any financial consequences, and logically in this sense the functioning of the State is not jeopardised. So, then, why such a categorical insistence on the adoption of law by emergency procedure? That's one thing. Another unacceptable fact is itself questionable and inconsistent and incomplete social dialogue, which represents an autonomous and forced decision-making and violation of the legitimate union rights of the majority of interest groups of the affected union membership. The choice and modification of the quorum for the adoption or modification of collective agreements for the public sector is also not a fair picture of the democratic nature of work and thinking. In the Slovenian National Party, we reject such an approach to solving current problems. Such a way of working also represents unacceptable interventions in the social partnership and full disregard for the fundamental principles of the social state, as well as the destruction of the foundations of unionism and the related rights of certain groups of employees. Of course, we are aware of the problem of wage imbalances and the need for a solution to these problems. Here we agree with some unions – say – customs officers, officers who demand that the dynamics of eliminating wage imbalances be maintained. They do not oppose the freezing of wages, but insist on the dynamics of eliminating wage imbalances, which must be agreed upon and based on social dialogue. Indeed, the state is troubled when it has such dissatisfaction in the very pillars of its statehood. Rather, I would expect every country to take care of satisfied police officers, satisfied soldiers, satisfied customs officers, but not to work in a direction that causes dissatisfaction among these categories of public servants. We are also aware of the need to reduce the number of employees in public administration and in general in the public sector. Regrettably, the government's representatives only perform in this respect in a declared manner to the public. The actions and actions of the ministries themselves show a completely different picture. Some media information even points to increased public sector employment. It is said that the numbers are 2,000 or even more that I am not talking about a number of part-time employees and students employed for a certain period of time after ministries, their services, public funds, agencies and so on. In general, the ministry should go into the very sense of certain services in the public sector, the need to abolish some and, as a result, show frank and genuine will after reducing red tape. It appears that it is actually becoming its own purpose and is already exerting great pressure on and destroying the state's public financial stability. It is clear that the real sector is not in a position, not even in such times of crisis, to keep such an opaque number of bureaucratic mouths, because we are aware of the sad fact that the Slovenian economy is on its knees, with the exception of a few bright exceptions. Nor does it show that such a policy could be used [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u10	Comrade Györek, please finish your sentence. Thirty-three seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u11	Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u13	Good-bye to all of you. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to the ministers and to the minister! Responsible and serious policy must do as it thinks is necessary and right, but not by liking everyone at any moment. The crisis is ongoing. The consequences are felt by all, and it is certainly time for arrangements, talks, and, at the end of the day, concrete decisions and thoughtful moves. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a novel law on the public sector wage system after careful consideration, with many problems. Because we are convinced that it is the adoption and approval of this law that both parties involved will return to the negotiating table and that we are ready and able to find a solution by the end of the month in a state and for the good of Slovenia. We understand that we are in a difficult situation. The consequences of the crisis are felt by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They are very sensitive to our budget and are also felt by public servants. The public sector is still essential to the functioning of this country. The public sector is not a parasite. For the operation of this country, it is necessary, we respect it. However, it is also important to understand that if, at the last budgetary discussion of the investment in this country, we have reduced by as much as €600 million, then this probably means that everyone is out of work every moment. One of the considerations is that if we forgive in production, in primary activities, we will also have to reduce employment, bureaucracy and more in the public sector. As a coalition party, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in finding a solution to the situation. We also understand that today's ideal solutions are not possible, that the one who drives and leads on is just an agreement and some compromise that will also guarantee us fiscal sustainability. At the same time, we ask and ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, also point out that our support is not without reservations. At the time of the adoption of the amendment, we expect and require continued dialogue with representatives of trade unions with which the Government has not yet found agreement. We expect the greatest possible engagement of all parties to avoid the sentence of the work of public servants, which is the worst possible of all solutions. He's not going anywhere. If there's a sentence, we'll have to sit at the table again, talk and make a deal. We are pleased that in these last days we have been able to meet several times with representatives of various unions. We listened to their opinions, their arguments. On the other hand, we have mature, responsible, serious interlocutors, who are of course familiar with the system, who have a view of their own. After we have also spoken with the President of the Government and with the Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Finance who are responsible for the budget, we still think that compromise and agreement are possible, but of course the amount will not and cannot be as great as the expectations. Every time a crisis strikes, the nation must hold together. For the Slovenians to know, we can do this, and we want this moment, we've shown it several times in history. We therefore appeal from this city to both the trade union representatives and the government negotiating group to do everything they can to achieve an acceptable compromise and the entire Liberal Democracy Club is ready to offer all the assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The support of the law is not without doubts and, of course, not without the additional questions that each of us has. This was also demonstrated by the debate in the Committee. The idea we have with this support is that it is a shame that social partners, trade unions representing public sector employees and the Government have not found a compromise agreement and have prepared such additions to the collective agreement or annex that would understand the serious financial capacity of the State, which mostly financed the salaries of public servants and the expectations of employees they had when the Public Sector Wages Act, together with the public sector collective agreement, was also adopted. In my mind, I have 2008 when the pay reform of the public sector actually started in Slovenia. Unfortunately, at the first payment of salaries under the new system, it has been shown that salary reform has not achieved the expected results and expectations. In some cases, though, negative relationships have increased. It is true that the preparation of the pay reform began in the time of the Drnovška government – as we like to say – at the Ministry of the Interior. It's also known who was preparing things there at the time. But today we can certainly say that this was a major intervention in regulating wage imbalances that have certainly been and are probably still today. The reform covered 160,000 civil servants in order to bring them together in the pay system across the public sector, which is probably not completely comparable. That is true, when we look at how the Public Sector Wages Act and the collective agreement have changed together with the public sector tariff work and all the negotiations that have been going in this direction. Article 42 of the Basic Law on the Wage System provided for the adoption of a collective agreement at the time when the trade unions gave their consent to it, representative unions covering in some way 40% of the public sector employees. More than 40%. In 2006, when it was necessary to adopt and agree on a collective agreement, the then government, because there was no agreement on a collective agreement and the differences were about the same as they are today, came to Parliament by amending the basic contract by supplementing this part, changing the quorum and determining the difference that it later entered into the collective agreement itself. The problem is, of course, this was a one-off act and the system itself has entered into a collective agreement that is now in force in the wake of a change. The law itself did not provide for a change, but only when a new collective agreement was adopted. The change was certainly necessary because we needed a new law, a new pay system. Also because public finances needed to be balanced in some way. What's this division? Without the appointment of carriers of various confederates or negotiating groups, it can be found that one confederation of the public sector brings together, in particular, trade unions in the field of public or state administration, which are more numerous by trade unions, but probably smaller by membership, or by opinions and reflections that they are. In particular, the second confederation brings together employees in the service public sector, such as education, health care and part of the public administration, which is smaller by its headquarters, and according to membership number, it is expected to be more than 40%. This census of trade unions and trade union membership actually began in 2006 with the adoption of a collective agreement for the public sector and not today. This is bad for negotiating and social dialogue, based on strength and not on the facts, possibilities and expectations of employees both in the public sector and, of course, with the possibility of a country that is an employer to public servants. Today's amendment to the law in the public sector wage system is a reflection of the financial and economic crisis, which does not allow wage reform to be fully implemented, as it has been through social dialogue, but sometimes through forced agreement. However, this change is worth stressing that the level of wage coordination achieved by 2010 will not change, but coordination will continue until 2012 and 2013, if GDP growth is higher than 3%. This is probably our common objective to increase GDP growth. In the SD Group, we will support the proposed law with the amendments adopted by the Committee. However, I am confident that social dialogue will continue after this amendment of the law and that the final harmonisation of the annex will be supported by all trade unions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. At the start, let me say that the time available does not, of course, allow me what I want to say. That is why I will also take advantage of the debate. And for starters, our parliamentary group of this law will by no means support it. The underlying reason is because you're committing murder. The murder of social dialogue. And as long as the coalition is doing the murder of social dialogue, there will be no involvement in this. Otherwise, let me remind you of the following. Like I said on the Committee, this is the situation. I like to give in to some kind of ad. Two years ago, I flew to the store and bought some bathroom cleaning because it looked so good on TV. When I got home, I realized it was just plain water that didn't work. Something similar is, of course, with the coalition agreement and the conduct of the coalition. In 2008, of course, you sold a lot of things happily in Slovenia, called EPP, as the commercial that I bought. In the coalition agreement, you later wrote: "Active social partnership is a condition for legitimate, professional solutions for us. To date, you have entered into a coalition treaty, 'we will set an example of respect for constitutionality and legality', further, 'we commit ourselves to adopting a programme of responsible policies that will be the basis of social communication'. This also includes an agreement between the social partners on income policy, which is a public sector wage policy. What's ahead of us today? So you paint people just as well, like that commercial you put on me. Then you wrote it in the coalition agreement. But today you are doing what? In the middle of negotiations with trade unions, when negotiations are under way, change the rules. This is exactly the same as a judge who judges boxing says that from one point forward, from the fifth round forward, someone is more allowed than the other, and then let him win. Yeah, how come the government does that with unions, and it does that with union work, of course? Look, what we're looking at is lowering the quorum for the validity of the collective agreement. You've got all your options, and no one's stopping you. We would probably support you, too, if we said, "The money's gone, we've fed the country, unfortunately, a reduction of X%, it's no different." People would understand you. Neither do we, nor do unions require full pay harmonisation, nor does any of the unions require it. This needs to be said publicly in the microphone – no one demands it. What are you doing with this bill today? You simply lower the quorum and prove that seven are more than twenty-two – they know in the first grade, before the end of the first class – of course if I take the number of unions. Seven for you is more than twenty-two, and you write that in marriage. Okay, let's be correct, so you go to the number of members, so we're correct. The number of members is one way or another, we know that. The next problem is, you say,'social dialogue, social dialogue and social dialogue'. And before that, we have also heard that "social dialogue should continue even after the strike". That's great! I'll offer you the first negotiator, if that's how you intend to proceed. That's really easy to do – you change the law and you say, "40% is a quorum." Then you call the unionists a little bit and you say, "We'll squeeze you again." You fly into the National Assembly and say, "No, 30% will be a quorum." Well, when that doesn't work out, we're going to have a 10% quorum, eventually we're going to land with one unionist or what that's going to look like. This is not the way social dialogue is. That's why this is a murder of social dialogue for us. The murder of social dialogue! In this way, no one can vote, at least with respect to our parliamentary group, "yes". But I am grateful to the President of the Government – and I will react as soon as any coalition member starts talking about the pre-election candy. I hope you heard what the Prime Minister said. He said that the salary reform in 2008 was justified because people received, at least on paper, only what they had saved up until 2008 and what they had given up. So there won't be any problem with the pre-election candy, let me tell you right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues, ministers, ministers! On 22 June this year, the Government presented a stability programme to 29 representative civil servants' unions and also presented a public financial situation that favours a reduction in revenue. All of this makes it impossible to increase budgetary expenditure. It was therefore necessary to change the starting points for wage policy this year and 2012. The government also served all trade unions in the same month with its negotiating venues based on a responsible attitude towards Slovenian public finances. Regrettably, only a number of representative unions have decided after long-term negotiations for the signing of the annex, which represents the full majority of public servants. Since the current legislation does not allow the conclusion of social bargaining in the regulation of wage policy, the competent ministry has acceded to a different regulation leading to the finding that the collective contract for the public sector has been concluded and that its amendments are valid. Among other things, the current regime allows for a contract to be concluded with representative unions of the public sector, which, by the number of representative unions, represent a majority which are representative of either individual activity or profession in the public sector, but which, according to the number of members of these unions, represent a small proportion of employees in the public sector or do not represent employees in the four activities for which wage groups are established by law. The existing law already provides for the quorum needed to conclude a collective agreement for the public sector. The problem is that the law does not provide for a quorum for the amendment of the collective agreement, but it is laid down in the collective agreement, which means that it is a legal area of irregularity, since the collective agreement does not have the legal effect of the law. And the latter appears to have become the core of the dispute, both in union relations and between the government and the unions. In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that the quorum, as proposed to amend the collective agreement, is problematic. We note, however, that the quorum based on the number of unions, rather than on the number of public servants involved, is equally or even more problematic. So today we are deciding between two solutions, none of which are optimal. However, we are convinced that the rules of the game, which some claim to be changing all the time, must be definitively regulated by the law. Therefore, by adopting the novelty, we want to ensure such arrangements for the conclusion of a collective agreement for the public sector and also for its changes, which will allow for the conclusion of a collective agreement in two ways on the part of representative public sector unions. In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that the proposed changes, according to some unions, constitute an unjustified intervention in social dialogue. We would therefore like to point out that the adoption of the law of social dialogue will not stop, it will not freeze and that coordination can continue even after this law has been implemented within the time limits set by the collective agreement. Therefore, we also expect the Government to renegotiate after the adoption of the law with trade unions that do not agree with the annex to the collective agreement. Following recent discussions with these unions, we are convinced that some of the harmonisations under the current public financial options are still possible. However, we expect trade unions to understand that we must all share the fate of all those who are struggling to survive under these tight economic and financial conditions. Allow me to say the following message, which comes from the real sector, from the economy: Employees in the public sector must understand that it is not about someone wanting to take something from them. It is the fact that the state has no place to take to meet all the legally prescribed obligations. The public sector lives on what creates the economy and depends on their work and must share fate with everyone else in society who at that time feel the crisis on their skin. That is why we will really support the amendment of the law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote against a law that is contrary to democratic principles, contrary to the principles of the rule of law and does not meet the criteria for urgency. It is unacceptable that the Government, because it is unable to reach an agreement in a constructive social dialogue, seeks to circumvent the proposed law, amend the rules of the game and force the majority to sign amendments to the agreement already concluded. It is impossible to overlook the fact that the Government cannot or cannot agree with the social partners or find a consensus with the opposition, but there is no problem when, for example, it deals with neighbouring Croatia in solving their problems. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with the fact that order must be made in public administration. We would like to stress that the public administration must also tighten the belt during the crisis, in principle: if it is a crisis, it is a crisis for everyone. If the bag is empty, it cannot be shared with resources that are not available. We rightly expect the Government to finally come up with the right proposals. If the Government makes constructive proposals for structural changes, we are also prepared to support them in the opposition party of the Slovenian People's Party. In view of the many irrational moves made by the Government, the unacceptable investments and the unwillingness to work together with the opposition to find the right way out of the crisis, there are still many options for action in the parliamentary group. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have repeatedly pointed out the fact that costs must be reduced and public administrations organised more effectively. When adopting budgets, we have proposed savings. In contrast, the government is setting up new and new agencies. We rightly expect the Government to respect democratic principles and not only take advantage of the position of power it has, but will lead a dialogue leading to an agreement and will finally come up with the right proposals. It is not right to say on average that the public sector is not doing well, that it is too busy and that wages are too high. There is a need for concrete agreement and a thorough review of who is not doing well and who needs to be corrected and the imbalances addressed. Above all, in the public sector, it is necessary to think of all those who receive the lowest wages in order to avoid new injustices and imbalances. In doing so, we must say honestly that there are also capable, decent and working people in the public sector. Of course, they are like everywhere else who do not deserve their wages and jobs. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, let me once again say that we will not support this law. However, we will support more concrete, effective and, in particular, coordinated proposals, which we are rightly awaiting and which the Government is also obliged to prepare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although I already have a review of the amendments and also a report, you don't have it yet. It is impossible to discuss the amendments, so I am adjourning the session by 5 p.m. So they are already coming. [[...]] Can we continue? At this time, they will be divided. Do you? You have the amendments. Now the report is coming, so we can proceed. I'm very happy. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. At the same time, I would like to point out that the amendment to Article 2 of the SDS Group is also linked to the amendment to Article 1 and that it is therefore possible to discuss the two related articles together. I am putting to the debate the first and the second amendments to Article 1 and 2 of the draft law of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The Minister has also signed up, and as usual, when the Minister answers, she can't sign up, and I'll give her my word right away. First of all, Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u23	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! In opening, I would like to thank you for the presentation you have presented to the representatives of the Group and for clarifying some of the inaccuracies in the statements made by the individual Group of Members, however, I would like to justify with fact the proposal for a novel which is before you today. Of course, it does not argue that this government does not fully respect social dialogue in line with the coalition commitment. The problem of social dialogue within the pay system is of a different kind, as represented by the Slovenian public. The Collective Contracts Act in Article 33 clearly states that this law, namely the general law governing collective agreements, does not apply to the collective bargaining system in the pay system and that this Act on the public sector wage system determines what collective bargaining is like in the Republic of Slovenia. This law came into existence in 2002, with amendments until today, and established a mandatory social dialogue, mandatory negotiation every year by 1 October of the current year, when each current government has to submit a budget to the National Assembly. These negotiations, coordination of wage coordination with inflation on the level of the regression and the current provision on the elimination of wage imbalances, dynamics and levels of elimination are provisions which are only in the public sector collective agreement and cannot be stopped without agreement without social dialogue. We can't. We are reaching for collective bargaining because the system is therefore unique in Europe and in the world. If in the work of trade unions and the former government, this system did not show its problem, this moment shows it not only for the union's position in such a system, but also for the government. Why the union? Does anyone expect public officials to give up what they have already achieved in the negotiation process? This is not the natural role of unions, so we understand them. The position in 2009, 2010, i.e. saving, reducing public spending of all 29 representative unions, has put it in a completely different role than the natural role of the union. In all Member States of the European Union, when negotiations are free, systems are such, wages are regulated by law, minimum rights. Everything that's better, however, is agreed by the government with the unions, only on better things. Higher classifications, higher regression, coordination with inflation to a greater extent, higher wages. If it's okay with you. If you make a deal, all right, they'll get the staff. However, if they do not agree, this does not prevent the Government from acting when the crisis is. In the Member States of the European Union, of course, we have trade union protests when governments are lowering salaries for public servants. However, they do not object to an intervention in the collective agreement. This government, whatever government is in this place, is condemned to a problematic systemic dialogue. However, the law did not say what would happen if most unions did not want to negotiate, if they did not come into negotiations, there was no alternative to say that if you did not agree, but the government could act by law. We don't have that. So, if we don't agree, we can take action with the intervention law, but we took this exercise with the representative unions last year. The unions had an agreement with the former government under a truly good economic situation. Even today, the Committee has been told with the threat of a strike to demand. This was recorded in Article 50 of the collective agreement, the abolition, the definitive elimination of wage imbalances in full in 2010. In 2008, when the crisis was not as visible as it was, the former government agreed to such an agreement. Last year, none of the 29 unions in the preparation of the 2010 budget refused to sit at the table unless the Government ensured that the bill would be paid if it took action again. There was no Greece last year, there were no fiscal rules. Last year, there was no stability programme, the protection of the euro as a strong currency, where all EU Member States, with their budgets, must also pursue a reduction in the budget deficits that we have today at 5%. So, this unnatural role of trade unions, which this year put them in a position to stand up from the table when we presented the negotiating points with all seriousness, including the poor public financial situation, 22 of the 29 trade unions said they would not negotiate, but would give written negotiations against the proposal. The seven representative trade unions, who obviously were aware of their obligations, which means they must negotiate in the system we have, sat at the negotiating table. In parallel with the formal negotiations held for a month with seven representative unions, we also invited the other 22. I also met with them personally to introduce them to all the starting points and so on, but we were only 18. 8. get an anti-proposal on only two elements of wage policy: elimination of wage imbalances and coordination with inflation. This is where the government has taken these proposals seriously. I can present them in more detail below. The negotiation process has been disrupted since the beginning. Dear Mr Gorenak, we have not killed the social dialogue. Since June, we have been negotiating with those unions that have taken social dialogue seriously, who have come to the negotiating table, who have informally met with others, who have given in to extreme opportunities, who have given in to 200 million, as has already been said today, at the point that we have decided to pay the regression, but at the amount of 2009, as is now the agreement, so that we do not reach the regression here. This was just negotiated by those who sat at the negotiating table, so that we would not interfere with the cost of work, so that we would not reduce the cost of lunch, so that we would not reduce the costs of discharges. Here, when the government made its decision, it decided to find these 200 million savings by optimizing business processes, combining organisational units, in short, by reducing the volume of copyright and other contracts with other costs. In this part, we have stepped down in the negotiating process. Social dialogue was checked every Thursday in the government, including the rate of failure. The Ministry of Finance has also closely monitored all these frameworks. However, with regard to the increase in wages for 2010, we have managed to agree on a social dialogue, Mr Gorenak. An important part of those seated at the negotiating table was initialled with the Government by the agreement and the annex No 3 proposal, where we have determined to continue to eliminate wage imbalances in two consecutive years after the year when economic growth will exceed 3%. This is extremely important. It is not possible to raise wages in the public sector if there is no economic growth. This is an additional assignment to ensure 1. Ten. 2010 falls into payment of the third quarter with the obligation to settle. That's why the emergency procedure, the ones you asked. We have been negotiating until the last day, while we have been allowed to act legally. The urgent procedure – there was a question – of course there are difficult remedial consequences. In 2011, a new EUR 100 million will have to be abolished to pay for such increases due to the abolition of the third quarter. Here the position of the Ministry of Finance is possible only with additional borrowing, with additional loans. So we will exceed 5% of the public financial deficit, which we must reduce in one way or another under the fiscal rule, as is now the starting point of budget preparation. The second and third quarters during the period when 3% of economic growth will be without a budget obligation. We cannot allow the future government in two years or our current government to meet 100 million commitments each year that will be incriminating. That is why this annex, which we have initialled in this part, and this arrangement is extremely valuable. With regard to the alignment of wages with inflation, we have managed to agree not to harmonise wages in 2011, so not in the current year. However, with effect from 1 January 2012, real inflation will exceed 2% in 2011 in contrast to this 2%. As early as 2010, we aligned the salaries of employees with inflation on the basis of an agreement of up to half of them and made progress in 2010. In 2009, the first quarter of the wage imbalances took place. As a result, wages grew in 2009 at a rate of 6,5 % in the public sector, with an economic downturn of 2,3 % in 2010 and 2,3 % in 2010. Remember last year, or this year, when you discussed the balance, how many eyewitnesses this government received to reduce investment, why we didn't go to pay. Because we respected the social dialogue, the agreement we reached with the unions in the preparation of the 2010 budget. That is why we have reduced our investment by 600 million. We did not help the economy for national consumers. It wasn't possible because there was so much less revenue. This has been reported to you several times since the rebalancing. With regard to the regression, staff members agreed to pay at the 2009 level. Do you know what it means to pay it in the amount set out in the Labour Relations Act today? An additional €14 million should be provided only in contrast to the increase from €694 to €735. These are all facts and this agreement and the annex that was negotiated was assessed from the government's public financial framework as acceptable. It is estimated that most of the public officials represented by the negotiators and for them as well. They are aware that wage growth is unlikely to be appropriate in such a public financial situation. Your Honor, there's a lot of evidence that we're endangering wage reform. We said we were moving on. But the indications that individual groups are less affected or more affected when we stop wage reform are not true. I must say that when you hear the following facts, it will be easier to create a picture. I would also like to present to you the opinion, the analysis of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. I ask you to read this in the labour market chapter so that you can trust those who are preparing an analysis for this country. They said it was an attachment. We've sent this to all the public sector unions. It appears that, in line with the objective of wage reform, there has been a significant change in the internal relations between public sector activities since the payment of two quarters. Why could it have come to this? Here are the percentages. This could have been due to the indisputable agreement that all salary imbalances over the four pay grade should be eliminated by September 2008. To simplify, 10 pay grade is 10 times 4%. This is one pay grade if it was found at the time of the reform, but there were few, in the area of health care, social protection and also the administration, to eliminate 10 salary classes. Their wages should be increased by 40% due to the finding of a backlog. Laik would say that they are 20% today — not since 7 classes were abolished already in September 2008. They had already received salary increases of 28%. When we're with 1. 9. Released another quarter, got another 4%. Today, these people, who were most aware of falling behind in other activities, have a 40% wage target of up to 32%. Those who eliminate 4 pay grade have now received 8% in the middle of the day, with a further 2-fold target of 4%. And in the public sector, there are no more employees who would have to pay more than 2 salary classes or twice for 4% of their salary. But there are groups that have fewer. Those who have received 2 pay grade already have a 4% salary increase, while 2% are still waiting. Umar goes on to say in this analysis, which shows what happened to the public administration before the pay reform, the state of education and the state of health and social protection in relation to gross wages in these activities to gross wages achieved in the economy. If in 2006 the public administration had a 26% higher salary in relation to the economy, then in education by 31% before the reform and 19% in health care, it is different in half the pay reform. In the public administration today, this percentage rose from 33% to 33%, from 131% in education to 128%, and from 119% to 130% in health and social care and almost 31% more. The activities that were lagging behind were half-wage reform due to the dynamics which gave the most lagging classes over 4 already in September, Umar estimated that the targets had already been achieved in an important part. Most of the revisions were in health care, social protection. There was also a significant rise in the public administration. That's what Umar concluded. So all those who say that we have all the imbalances in half of the pay reform – and the unions who today say that this is the problem – demand that it continue – with these data I try to prove that these internal imbalances are already fully balanced in important work, so people are still waiting 2 times by 4%. When we reached the end of the negotiations and were not able to get any closer, as the requirements were still at the last time before the signing by various professional groups, so different that, in the end, the total expenditure for which salaries should be increased was present, the finances were present, exceeded by 100 million euros, in one part due to the elimination of wage imbalances, in the other part due to the desire to release progress in 2011. That's why we invited those who wanted to sign. Not even everyone who negotiated was signed. We have received signatures from the five representative unions represented by Mr Strukelj in the negotiations. We have obtained a signature from one represented by Mr Posedi in the negotiations. We have subsequently obtained a declaration that another representative union is joining the signing process. So, today we're recording seven signatures. We know exactly that these signatories are from different activities, since in the negotiations the Health and Social Protection Workers' Union, which, according to their published data has over 17 thousand 700 members, then the Health Care Workers' Union has over 8 thousand members – that is, data from 2006 – the Police Union has over 6,000 members, the Education and Education Union, science and culture union of over 39,000 members. These people negotiated, negotiated and eventually obtained the mandate of their members, who represent them, to sign such an agreement and annex. And what kind of marriage is before you today? To allow us and to give us the opportunity, honourable Members and Members, to also check this quorum that we have reached in the social dialogue. This quorum already exists today, but unfortunately it is only written in law for the conclusion of a collective agreement. This is even unacceptable, and it is nowhere to be seen in the world, so that the same legal act is subject to two quorums, as we are witnessing today. The first quorum is said to be signed by representatives of the unions of four activities representing at least 40% of the staff members in the public sector. This is a current quorum that this government has not invented and is stipulated in the law for the conclusion of a collective agreement. Today, Mr Gorenak, on the Committee, not I, have been informed by union representatives that in the year, your government changed the quorum between the rules of the game, saying, the rules of the game in 2006, when you replaced this marriage quorum and rejuvened it with a lighter quorum, according to their assessment. That's enough if most of the representative unions are. This quorum also applied to the conclusion of the 2008 collective agreement. What you're telling us is that the unions have told you that this is your practice. But we have more than a closed negotiation. We're negotiating for one. 10. you have to finish. We couldn't wait any longer because we have to wait until 1. 10. budget the Parliament. God’s Word, 1 / 1 10. We are going to be paid 100 million, so this negotiation process has been limited to us in time due to the difficult remedial consequences that threaten us, this is an additional 100 million. Such is the current provision in the collective agreement. It still does not hold that we are interfering with the collective agreement with this, which provided for another quorum, but only for changes. We even put it first, in the first place, which was a well-founded statement on the committee today that this proposal is substantially less adjusted. We will continue to invite the signing first and to identify the majority after the current quorum, as set out in Article 4 of the Public Sector Collective Treaty. Amendments and additions will apply if from 29 they sign 15 representative unions irrespective of membership. Once we find out that 15 signatures are not available, we will only go underground to see if those who signed represent, as stated in the second paragraph, four different activities and their total membership of these unions exceeds 40% of the public sector employees. These two quorums are now both valid and for changes and for conclusion. And the actual arrangement is the same as your parliamentary group is proposing an amendment. If you look closely at the majority, the first majority that this amendment sets out for conclusion and amendment, the majority that you are proposing is exactly the same. So I cannot say that I do not agree with your amendment by content, because we have proposed this majority, that we do not reach out to the collective agreement, that the unions cannot say that we have changed the quorum that they agreed on in 2008, when they signed the collective agreement, even though it is entirely non-systematic only for changes. We add only the quorum of the subordinate, which is now applicable in the law to the conclusion of the collective agreement, and the content of your amendment is exactly the same as our Article 1. However, you cannot take away the right to show the Members today, after the quorum that already exists — and I say this, and I conclude it — and this amendment was proposed in 2004 — to the Members today — at the time, the not-separated representative unions of the public sector, at the time another parliamentary group, wrote to the Members on 17 June 2004, requested that as a quorum for the conclusion of the collective agreement, and they say, "the decision on the proposed amendment was taken at the 106th meeting of the negotiating group of representative unions on 9 June 2004. It was adopted under point 2 of the Amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. No votes against and with four abstentions. The meeting was attended by representatives of the seventeen public sector unions," we are talking about 2004 and one negotiating group, "in view of the number of members and trade unions who voted in favour of the amendment, trade unions representing at least 90% of all union members in the public sector voted in favour of the amendment. Mr President, we stress in particular that if the amendment to Article 11 were not adopted, the collective agreement would be lost. [[...]] We are confident that, by establishing the proposed quorum for the general validity of the collective contract for the public sector – it must be signed by trade unions of at least four activities with a total of more than 40% of the public sector membership – this extremely important contract is given the appropriate legitimacy." There's nothing to see here. They were unanimous in 2004. And precisely this solution, without correcting the comma that is in the current law, is given as a subordinate option for conclusion and for changes and additions. So social dialogue continues, we do not interfere with the collective agreement, we break nothing, we break. You must admit, however, that it would be unfair for the voices of public servants who understood that we must share fate with the real sector in the public sector to be disregarded in one way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u25	First of all, the answer to that question is that the previous government did the same. Mr Grega Virant reports: "Yes, but we have concluded collective agreements with the agreement of virtually all unions." That's a big difference. Dear Madam Secretary! In the context of the debate on this law, given that even on the committee the coalition Members did not discuss that it was practically just us, but also some opposition Member, but now that I am looking at media reports, that is not at all. Things are different in this hall, too. This is where the Prime Minister of the Government is discussing, and you, the opposition in the Chamber, to say something, are not. That's why I'm gonna make sure you say something else. Right after the board meeting, I made it very clear to you that I highly respect your work. Your work is correct, your work is on the right track, you assist the President of the Government, as it stands, and I don't see any problems here. The problem we have is somewhere else. It's an empty budget that you don't have that much influence on, but other people have a lot of influence on it. Above all, he is greatly influenced by those who empty the budget and do nothing to fill it. Of course, I have several ministers to mention in this context, one of them has just left the hall, this is the Minister for Higher Education, who simply sends €78 million for centres of excellence to Ljubljana instead of sending them to Slovenia, but we talked about this at another point. I'm also thinking of an interior minister who, on one side, smiles at cops, takes a little boat down the coast and does nothing. I'm talking about a justice minister who fills the pockets of notaries and lawyers. And you're doing the right thing, and I like it very much, and I appreciate you doing it. But the way you went about it, I don't think it's wrong. I see in the media, in particular, that the freezing of wages is a fair measure. Yeah, who's talking about having to raise them?Oh, my God! Who's talking about having to raise them? There is no opposition Member, and as I know, there are no trade unionists who want promotion and immediate coordination. Yes, for God's sake, since you and Mr Struggle's group have signed an agreement, there's a problem. You didn't sign this with Mr Posei's group. But watch out, he offered you, see, minimum harmonisation, one 18-year-old or one 20-year-old, and in January you take us in that regular alignment and you'll have a zero. That was his offer, or union offer, but that's not the case. But where is the solution? So the solution to the problem is that the government comes before the unions, in your or the President's image, that the president or you go on national television or any other, and you talk to the unions, Slovenia and Slovenia, and you say, "The money is empty. It's not working anymore. You will share the fate of the economy. There's 40,000 minus. So the public sector shares the fate of the economy, including Members, Ministers and everyone else. We're going to lower your wages," and say, "we're canceling the collective agreement," say, "we're canceling, we're not going, we can't." And today we're talking, look, and today we're turning into a cellophane thing called, "Yeah, now we're going to change the law, so the quorum will be a little bit smaller to be 40" and so on, and the government will be beautiful. What the hell! Once again, step before the Slovenian people, stand before the unions and say, "We have no money. It's over." If the Irish could do minus 5 and minus 20%, you could do it! Everyone. It won't be any different. There's no other way. And you're mistaking, and the government is transferring some decision to the National Assembly to keep the government pretty. That's not true! And let the quorum change to say, "Ah, those up there, the ugly unions, they want to have higher wages in these situations." Nobody's asking for them. Yeah, 0.18 and the January check is then zero, Minister, well, we know that. But, look what's bothering me, I'm gonna quote something. What bothers me about all this is cheating. And this perfect transfer of the entire government coalition. With the assistance of many media, this is what it looks like in Slovenia. I'll say one quote. The author of this matter, which we are talking about, is the current Prime Minister of the Government. At the time before the elections, he said, "In recent times, I have often been asked why the Social Democrats are trying to lead the country in the next term, but when it becomes increasingly clear that economic conjuncturing is going to lead to economic uncertainty." I believe that's what people were asking him. "My answer is," he said more gently, today I'd say more harshly, "that's why. Social Democrats are well aware that economic circumstances will not be as favourable as they have been in the last four years. But that is why it is important that the party which is socially sensitive and understands the importance of social dialogue has a major political influence." Bravo! Now, the same party, the same coalition, takes the screwdriver and kills the social dialogue, with the law. The same side, the same coalition took the screwdriver and made a brarrr. Done. Now, be quiet, unionists! Not like that, come in front of people and say, "There's no money." This will be a better option. This will be a significantly better option. And no one who looks at us, whoever listens to us, if the unions or the opposition insists that our wages go up, is lying. He's lying. The government has more than one chance to solve the matter. The next option is possible. Do all the calculations on November 1st and lower your wages to the extent that the budget is sustainable. This is also a possible option and there will be no problem with the unions, when they say they want one so much and so much. This was another very fair measure for my understanding. Why? Some have saved more money and have given up more than others — between 2002 and 2008, one has been tighter, one has been less tighter, and now everyone is waiting. But somehow this system isn't fair. Perhaps it would be right to say, "November 1st is here or the new year is here, counting everyone back, minus so much" that the state treasury will still survive and that nothing will go into the mass of wages, it is also right for me, but then let it remain, as far as I am concerned, so long as it is possible, that then some normal coordination will go forward when this economy allows. Mr Struckle said this morning, "Yes, but when it's 3%, we'll push." I've already told him, and also the public, and I'll tell you that's not possible – plus 7, and economic growth minus 8, is minus 15. If it goes from minus 15 to minus 12, I think you still can't pay it off, not you, not any other government. You can't pay for that. This can be paid when we get to the state of the economy, at least in six, seven years, not to say eight. About that time it will be possible to pay for it, but not before that, not you or any other government. And that's also the deceiving when I was just talking about the question of how one of them was saving more money, one of them was saving less money, one of them was tighter, the other is smaller. I'm sorry, but I'm direct. Teachership has weighed less. The army, the police, and someone else was tighter. That's what you have to say. And that's why it could be fair. We live in a country where you had police officers outside a few days ago who whistled in Ljubljana. What can I say? Once we're so far away that cops strike -- because they can't anyway, because it says in the law that they can't, it says there -- but when cops express protests, I wonder where we are. Many of you stress human rights, that, that, that and so on and so forth, no human right, no one can come into force without the right to safety and security of life. That's what the police and the police are giving us. Everything else can be painted and equality can't be racist. None of this goes into consideration if there is no right to security. As far as the cops are concerned, we're obviously gonna need them one day when there's gonna be a worse situation than it was in 1991. Until then, apparently, there's nothing to do with them, and the minister's happy to walk around, drive around with a boat and a picture for the media, and paint for the cops. But it's not a matter of that minister. What bothers us or bothers me is much more. In the public sector, this government has also written a sentence in a coalition agreement that says we will reduce the number of direct budget consumers in the public sector. How, gentlemen? You've already done 11 agencies, but you're talking about reducing budget consumers. I believe that in 2012 you will talk about the realization of the coalition agreement. A little lie. A serious reorganisation of public administration is needed. I can also resent the public servants as a whole, if you like, I have no problem saying what I mean, but the situation is clear. In the minus 40,000 people who went on the road in the economy, minus 40,000 who have no wages and live on behalf of the state with social support, you have increased the number of public servants in the public sector by 2 000 400. Pha, so what?Oh, my God! Now put it all the way down for 2,000 400, and it'll be 5,000 plus. How? Wouldn't they cut it here? I understand that, let's say, social needs are going to need more, because the elderly are getting more and more, home for the elderly, but the number of children in schools is going to be lower, but no, and the university is also going to be lower. There are generations coming that are smaller. And we still have the same story, plus 2,000 400. Don't you have to do something serious here? The Irish made serious cuts in this area. And let this government coalition do them. I don't see any question here, the problem of the story we're talking about, the great problem of the story isn't that part of the unions wants more money, but part of it is good and loyal to the government. Today, the debate has shown that both sides are opposed to the situation. So it's not a problem to raise wages. The problem is that we're going now, I don't know what it's called, an elevator government, that we're going to put this government on a little bit of face and that it's going to be beautiful because it's going to say, "We respect social dialogue." That's what the government will say. See, it says, 40% tralalala, the government therefore respects social dialogue. That's not true! That's not true! He doesn't respect him. She will kill him by adopting this law, and there is no need to adopt such a law.I believe that my colleagues will support and say we understand, there is no money, let us leave the wages alone or lower them, or what I know. I said six months ago that the Minister would come to the National Assembly at the end of the year and would say, "Minus 5, minus 10 for everyone in the public sector." I believe it will happen if not now spring, or what I know when, because there is no money. But don't make yourself beautiful and kind and on one side of the union and people to worship and paint, on the other hand "pf" on the leg. That's what's so hard about it. What the number of union members means, we have talked a lot in this context. You know, the number of union members is a very relative story. It's a very relative story. No legislation allows you to count today. It is true that those great ones say: there are 60,000 or 40,000 of us. Whether it's true or not, I don't know. In a police union because there's two of them, I don't know what's true now, what's not true. Those who were first in the first union, this is the Police Union of Slovenia or whatever, then many moved to the Police Union of Slovenia, and I don't know if they took the application to the other side or went out there and then I went or not. I don't know. That's probably how it is in a lot of other situations, I don't know. One of the unionists said this morning, well, the next time you have to tell me the number, I'll say there's a million of us. Then there'll be a million. But it's not real. It's not real. This is not the best comparison to talk about it, although, on the other hand, it is also true that the great unions of Mr. Struklja can "split" and make them out of one 10. That's true, too. The problem is complicated. So the problem is not solved in an easy way. I believe that not only did the government launch this law, as I said before, but the screwdriver, after the union dialogue, took the big sword and struck the union with that sword. And the unions that are now being slaughtered at one and the other unions have done a good service to the current government, and perhaps others. Probably some other people, too. This is extremely bad for some unionism in this country. Of course, the government before Europe will be beautiful. Of course, it will be beautiful because social dialogue has been arranged. If the law needs to be amended to 30, 20 or 10 %, it will also do so, as the coalition majority in one way or another confirms the matter and there is no problem, and there is no problem in the debates, as on the committee where a coalition member debated, because the coalition has nothing to say. But the point is that we have a beautiful face in front of Europe: the government is engaged in social dialogue. Figgo guides him! Be honest, mascot down and say, "There's no money, no amen, no end, let's cancel the collective agreement, let's lower wages so the country can survive." For me, that would be more frank and fair. That would be more frank and fairer for me. Even now, and even further, there is likely to be a lot of talk about any medical protests. How can you solve the problem of doctors? In a very simple way. Go to Krka, and two or three medicines that are most used, screw it, reduce 20% and you will have plenty of money for all doctors and no problems. Although I do not advocate any on-calls and such large payments that they have, far from going anywhere else, if necessary. In short, our problem, or what we want to tell you, is in particular that, masks down, step in front of people and say, "There is no money. Amen. It's over. Minus." But not in a nice way to cuddle the government, if I say so, beauty cream. She's not helping anymore. She's too ugly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I will try to speak in such a way that everyone interested in the content, not only public servants, but also others, will try to understand what this is all about. Why the Slovenian National Party – and I myself – is against this law that we are talking about today, i.e. against the amendment of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. All that is written in the explanation can only be partially and that is very little true. That's all it really is. First question, why this marriage? After the current law, according to the current regulation – I will use the word supplement with which I replace anex or anenex, because this is a beautiful Slovenian term – the supplement should be signed by most unions, that is 15 of the existing 29. This supplement, as we have heard today, has only signed seven unions, which means: too little. And the supplement is supposed to come into force. What is the way forward in order to complement this entry into force? Either real negotiation and negotiation with the unions or what happened. Today, the government has made an urgent amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act, which – this is why – wants to change the determination of the quorum for the validity of the public sector collective agreement and, importantly, changes. Since 15 trade unions of 29 under the current law have not signed, the government is likely to adopt this law today with the help of its coalition partners, and these 7, which they have signed, will all of a sudden be complementary and the government will be here without negotiating with the unions, even though it is saying that it will talk, but the goal will be achieved. It will achieve that the elimination of wage imbalances will withdraw. It withdrew, according to the Government, until the State of the Republic of Slovenia experienced 3% of economic growth. But according to my experience, it's not going to happen, I mean, not 3%, but then something will change. Never again, even after the experience of all fellow Members who are 10 years and more in the National Assembly, will they remain so. Another time. The contract is an agreement of two parties. We're talking about a contract, in this case the government and representative unions. These two parties signed their rights and obligations. This collective agreement is signed by most unions and by the Government. And what else, if anyone hopes to claim otherwise, is this law as an interference with the argument of power in changing the contract. It is perfectly normal in the business world that if someone does not agree with a certain contract, they will not sign it. However, if it wants to change it, it can only be changed throughout the business world by the consent of the other party, not by an argument of power and not by amending the contract by amending it by law. This is not legitimate in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and my personal. Maybe it's not even legal. Okay, you're gonna say it's legal because it's the law over everything. But it's not "fair" with two parties. Third time. Above all, it bothers us that it is always going somewhere else in a crisis situation. Where? To the National Assembly. When it is most difficult, the government makes an autonomous decision that is controversial. But let the culprit be the National Assembly, you deal with this problem now, you confirm it. It's not fair, it's not fair. For the Slovenian National Party, talking with trade unions, coordination with trade unions, insists on 100 and the government insists on 40. The union drops to 80, the government raises to 50. The union is down to 60, and the government is down to 55 — and they are together. These are the negotiations. And there's always a solution. I think I've made a very precise argument about everything that's wrong with this law. Those unions that have not signed do not want anything other than to keep the coordination going and nothing else. Consistency of wage imbalances. And to the end. So quickly after such an urgent procedure, he came to the attention of this law, which we are interfering with in a treaty with which the Government expresses an argument of power. I am surprised that until today this National Assembly has not received a request to convene an urgent meeting for a bill to sanction all those employers who did not pay contributions to workers who did not pay their credits, even lied and stole them, wrote on the payroll to pay their credits and did not pay them. Nowhere have we seen such a law following an emergency procedure that we would be discussing today in this National Assembly. People, me personally and a lot of my colleagues have a "full suitcase" of their own. For two years, we've only been talking about salaries, salaries, wages. [[...]] It is time for us to start dealing with what will enable people to receive their wages at all, to respect the agreement and to respect the contracts. No one can convince me, no sane person in this country is 12 or take 20 or take 100 million for Slovenian workers and workers a big problem, but 400 million for Greece is no problem. Either the European Community up or down. Even when we received the report on this country's indebtedness, those we looked at saw that Slovenia was still relatively – I speak in absolute comparison – slightly in debt there, a little in debt. It will still not reach those largest countries in debt. But it is in charge that the production process itself, the increase in consumption, will lead to economic growth. Because once again, a purely simple farmer's logic, if we take what has been agreed today, or we lower or freeze, we reduce consumption. If there's no consumption, there's no sales. If there's no sale, there's no production. If there is no production, it is economic, which is even worse, a political crisis and a disaster. The only thing I really don't want to experience in this country is the political collapse of this country. Once again, this law is unfair just because it changes the government's conditions to the point of achieving something. The difference is 15 representative unions, 29 or only 7. And if that is already wrong, this law should change in general, when normal working conditions are, not now, to achieve a certain objective. That is why I will be against the law and against all amendments, except the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Articles 1 and 2. I'm not voting there at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Madam Minister, will you be in front of Mr Jerovsk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Barovich! We do not place any responsibility on the National Assembly. The same quorum as you say we've invented it now, it's already in effect. See, the existing section 42 of the Public Sector Wages Act, but is valid for conclusion. During a period of time, this quorum was adapted to some of the majority at a significantly better time when the government did not pursue public interest than it is being pursued and must be pursued by this government in these times of crisis today. So, your assessment that we're transferring to the National Assembly is absolutely inconclusive. Do you know when we'd like to move to the National Assembly? If we did what was already proposed. Now I will tell you four other options how to act, how the Government can act legally, and it would be more beneficial than that now that we are looking for agreement and social dialogue. We have also informed trade unions of the legal options available to this government by 1.10 that we cannot eliminate these wage imbalances to such an extent in the light of the limping economy. I don't think any government would be able to do that, whatever it is that's in power now, or just be judged irresponsible. The first option Mr Gorenak has also said that it would be possible is the right option. This is to cancel the collective agreement because it sets out all these elements: elimination, coordination with inflation and regression. The collective agreement itself states that it shall cancel with a six-month notice period. We waited for the spring forecast of economic growth in June. At that time, the Ministry of Finance set a starting point for the preparation of the budget, which is usually every year in May. For six months, it is said that the collective agreement would only expire at the end of 2010. That's impossible. We can't make a budget. We cannot stop the payment of the third quarter, which means an increase in wages by 100 million. But if we hadn't made a new collective agreement, but we would have made it, do you know what the quorum is? Not under the terms of the collective agreement today, the majority of the representative unions, four, in public, but after this quorum, which you are now telling him that we have invented, such a quorum is established in law. Well, the cancellation didn't count, so this is a regular trip. It would be most comfortable to fully implement what is now agreed in the public sector collective agreement to continue progress. Without wage alignment with inflation, in this case, wages would increase by 6% and 246 million euros in 2011 without an assessment of inflation, which is usually some information that is known. This moment is not known, so we did not take it into account. But I'm sure there'd be an extra cost here. So, let's drop all of this, and we'll linearly cut our wages by 6% with the intervention law on budgeting. At this point, officials, as you know, we already have a salary cut by 4% in the second year due to a decrease in public spending and a ministerial assembly by 8%. Thus, 6% of wages should be reduced. This is where we look at who we hurt the most. We hurt those of whom the representative unions today say we must urgently eliminate their classification as anomalies. It's about J payroll, it's about professional technical workers. Do you know how many are in this group? Fifty thousand Tems still need to improve the situation, because we've forgotten about them. [[..]] This would result in a 6% reduction in the personal standard. The average salary of €700,800 would represent a significantly lower position of public servant than of an individual, compared with this agreement and the annex that has been concluded today. That is why we are fighting in this social dialogue to come to an end. Next option. The intervention law could also reduce all elements of wage policy, which mean wage increases, and achieve such freezes as we agreed in this agreement. In this case the annex number 2 is activated and from 1.10.2010 further we are committed to paying the bills to an individual staff member because we have failed to eliminate his salary imbalance. So we can leave this burden to the next government. 100, 200, 300 million who's gonna pay for it when people press charges? [[..]] The group of twenty-two unions in the formal proposal they made on 18 August still insists on the calculation. So this option, which is for the public interest of the state, for the public health of the country, is devastating, but politically it would be very elegant, more comfortable than what we are doing now. Next option: With the amendment of the Wage System Act, we would set up a system like that of all European countries. We presented this in one part as a draft law to the unions. It's true that we stopped the pay reform there, but technically we don't even know how to stop it, so it's complicated. The final classes that the employees had achieved in the pay reform would be registered in the law, the wages would be fixed primarily in the law. They're not today. They're in a collective agreement. They would say that more than the law allows them to negotiate within the framework of the public sector collective agreement, i.e. better. With regard to the other elements, the regression, the alignment of wages with inflation, would be primarily negotiated with trade unions by 1 October, when the deadline for the submission of budgets is 1 October. But if we didn't make a deal, we could settle this with the law. Because we can't today. Article 5 of the Wages Act requires the Government to negotiate, by 1 October at the latest, by 1 October and in a coordinated manner, the negotiated value of coordination with inflation shall be entered into the collective agreement. That's what the law says today. The collective agreement is a mandatory component of the payroll system, this novelty we presented to the unions. The representative trade unions of the Confederation of Public Sectors, represented by Mr Strukelj, said that this was a defeat of social dialogue and that, should the Government put such a law into parliament, they would "strike". This is the only solution for all governments that will work forward at any time so that they can act in the public interest without prejudice to the collective agreement. This payroll system is so complicated for us. In short, all of what I just listed to you is to assess whether it is more appropriate for an individual employee or worse. There were also options in the game, let's eliminate wage imbalances, and then lower correspondingly or linearly or progressively. By reducing the value of Class 1 to Class 65, this range, which is now 4%, for example, is reduced to 4.9. To make the higher suffer more and the smaller suffer less. No representative union has agreed to such neutralisation in the coordination process. Individuals may be, but when we were looking for the opinion of everyone, they weren't. This would also be an option for the Government only to neutralise the fact that there is no need for additional public sector wage allocations. So that all the options we have on the table, the only legal options, are, in our opinion, significantly worse than completing this social dialogue. What's going to happen now that we're done, you said. The formal negotiation process is also limited in law. The deadline is 1 October for the submission of the budget. The law also says that things have to be arranged by then. Even though the two of us officially refused to negotiate with each other in writing once, we did not want to reconcile much with them. That's what we called it. But we couldn't get close. It is simple to require dynamics in the elimination of wage imbalances without neutralisation. This means additional debt. One eighth is just 50 million additional funds. But no one is allowed to neutralize it. So this is a situation that would be before any government. We do not propose a decision to the National Assembly. We've thought about everything carefully. The quorum under number one is also what was expected during the game. But we didn't have players at the game. The first day they left the negotiations, we knew we weren't going to make it to that majority. Or should we leave the other 7 and say, "It's not worth talking to you, is it?" They were aware of the negotiating obligation, but they were not. Then we looked at official websites. This isn't about one kind of union. It's not about one kind of union. This is a union of various activities with a large number of members. The official data from 2006 are that in this confederation, which negotiated, are combined: the Slovenian Health and Social Protection Workers' Union with over 17 thousand 700 members, the Slovenian Health Workers' Union with more than 8 thousand members, the Slovenian Police Union with more than 6 thousand 99 members, the Union negotiated, but did not accede to the contract, then the Independent Union of Workers of the Human University – a thousand 328 members, the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture – 39 thousand 127 members, the Union of Workers in the Justice of Slovenia – 825 members and the Union of Public Servants of Slovenia – 256 members. Together there are 73 000 421 representative unions. But we also have signatures from two unions that were not associated with this group in a regular negotiation process that lasted a month. They have achieved a lot, yet what the government estimates is fiscally sustainable. By saying here that there was a small group out there expressing a desire to negotiate, the government would say, because we already know that because you are not 15, you are not enough, of course the Government of Sin would have laid down the law. The government needs to negotiate. We negotiated until the last one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today we appear to be at the beginning of a very dangerous process. Indeed, this amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act entails a reduction in the threshold of trade union rights or the threshold on which the Government can modify the collective agreement in the public sector. This will certainly be followed by new steps in this direction. The process is dangerous because the government is practically giving up or violating or rejecting social dialogue, and of course it is in a situation where, due to the poor or inappropriate resolution of the financial crisis that has turned into an economic crisis and is already facing or facing a severe political crisis, it is trying to solve its own skin with such measures as have been seen in history and have had dangerous consequences. The government inoculates the unionists, operates according to the rule of the Divide et impera – Deli and rule. She's got to admit that. That's what she seems to have done. Like I said, she's giving up social dialogue. I'm sure this union deal would be possible and attainable. And yet, in my opinion, this is now clear to me, the government has already made a scenario before the summer starts, how this matter will end. Part of the scenario is the adoption of this law, which reduces this social dialogue or social partnership. Look, what brings me to what it proves? At the last session, the last session before July 15th, it was suddenly concluded among the journalists of Dela that the SDS was preparing 17 requests for extraordinary parliamentary and committee meetings. Certainly not a bit of this was discussed in the SDS but the government went to inscind extraordinary situations, accuse SDS and via its well-paid spin-doctors sent to some journalists such information as is happening in the SDS. Such intrigues and such misinformation were carried out at the time of the party by Uriah. Now spin-doctors. She calculated that the SDS would surely require some extraordinary meetings, and this would be a cover, a smoke screen for the government, so that such and similar measures would be put aside by the partnership, social dialogue and so on, and she would already have this done in August. Now she's exposed. She had to wait for the start of the parliamentary season in September. However, of course, this was not the only project she intended to take and camouflage in this way as conditional. This is when SDS produces an emergency situation and such measures must be taken. Look, is the government really following the only savings? Does it protect public finances and state property? The state of the country is catastrophic. The others in Europe have turned. Germany already has a conjuncture. And every day, a new factory with workers dies, and so on. No, those poofs you took, I don't know where you got them, they don't bring any results. So, the money went back. The situation in which we are is why saving is necessary. It's the right thing for everyone to share fate. But in the beginning the government shared unions, people and businesses, good and bad, good and not good and so on. Today, we have heard from the Committee that it is 100 million euros. It's a relatively large amount of money. But I'm sure we could negotiate for 30 million euros. On the other hand, we have heard that the favourite of the government majority, the government coalition, Mr Kordez has cleared 100 million euros. The new leadership filed charges, as we could have heard days ago, but this Mercury did not happen without the consent, without the cooperation of the people, the centres of power of your coalition. In the middle of the summer there was an affair, an unheard-of affair when the state company Talon bought from Mercury the shares of Nova Ljubljanska Bank at twice or more higher prices than shares in the unorganized market. The state-owned state-money company of Mercury was horrendous, but they did not, of course, save only Mercury, because many managers participated in that ownership in 2007 in a way that they bought materials from Mercury at significantly higher prices than they could have from competition. The transfer price difference obviously went to the ownership account in Mercury for some of the service providers. Has the government acted? With that action, the New Ljubljanska Bank came into breach of the takeover legislation. The Securities Market Agency has not yet issued a decision. It's just a matter of sweeping under the forearm. Why is he sweeping under the windshield? Because the actor was an SD candidate in the elections because after the elections he was promoted to the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor. And rather than allowing Minister Križanič or the Government to act immediately so that he cannot be the guardian of state property and state finances and also works in a state-owned company, he will be swept under the carpet. The Minister doesn't do anything. Mrs Kamnareva is not now; she has certainly participated as a secretary of state in the recruitment of such persons for the guardians of property; she has certainly cooperated. You're not acting. Of course, there would be political damage for you. Some are protected, some are dedicated. And 100 million there, 100 here, under the auspices of the government coalition, cleans up. But they are nothing, they have to be paid by public sector workers and slave workers in companies controlled by government coalition tycoons. It must be said that not only does this coalition or this government end social dialogue and social partnership, but its Members and members of the coalition even face fascist patterns. At the SD conference, Ambassador Luka Juri said: "Better one term than a lion than ten mandates as a sheep." Those directors who act like lions are, of course, glorified. This suggests copying fascist patterns, for this is the paraphrased expression of Benito Mussolini, who said, "Better than one day a lion than a hundred years a sheep." In democratic countries that have done so with Nazi and fascist patterns, the promotion of Nazi slogans is prohibited in Germany and you are dealing with it. And where does this country lead us? Will we also have a dictatorship in the short term? Nobody's reacting! My friend Juri has no contrainquences. And you're celebrating your tycoon lions. For this reason, it is necessary to say clearly: "Stand together, make a deal!" I also call on trade unions to be cooperative, to represent their interests. I think they're cooperative. Such a pattern, we must not accept these dangerous practices, because then democracy in Slovenia is over. You use shortcuts and patterns are in your past history, obviously. I'm shocked by what's going on. In an area where we should sanction illegality, where we should lay down transparent, honest people as guardians of state property and public finances and do nothing about it. Since the financial oligarchy is more important to this coalition than public workers, other workers and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening time for applications. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in? Mrs. Breda Bakan, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I, however, understood, Mr Vice-President, that we are discussing the amendment. But all I hear is an amendment, not a word. However, I just wanted to correct a colleague who referred to some unusual numbers. On the increase in the number of employees in the state administration. All together, we have public servants now 34 thousand 285. From 1. 1. 2009, when we know that there was somehow a real number of employees, the number of employees increased by 351, so by 351, not by 2 000 400. That's the first one. At the same time, it must be said that the number of employees in the Slovenian Army has increased by almost 500 at this time. Why? Because a clear employment plan or the completion of military units is such that each year the number of soldiers should gradually increase. So, growth here is not limited. So, in fact, when we look at the overall increase and increase in the military, the number of employees in the public administration and public services has decreased, but not increased. So much for that. I would also like to say that I was convinced that it would be possible to agree with the unions on the individual restrictive measures to be taken sooner or later. It would be good for the unions to accept that. If I understand correctly, this amendment is actually in line with the unions. Syndicates generally agree with this text. I'm glad you did. I am confident that, after the adoption of the law, we will come to the renegotiated cycle of coordination, which is urgently needed, without dialogue, without discussion, without conversation and without negotiation and negotiation. Of course, society can't work. I think that speaking with such harsh words as we have heard today about murders and similar - I will say, far too exaggerated and terrible expressions - I think we need to have a few points in our debates because the likeness of the unions, the popularity of the Slovenian public is not necessarily also useful for society, to talk in society and to agree between the various social partners. I would suggest, however, that in our performance we limit ourselves to this very bloated, very bombastic way of speaking. We're not going to come anywhere with this because then we don't listen to each other anymore, because we think things are way out of line.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u35	Dear colleague, I suggest you document yourself a little. Such a river, "better one day than a hundred sheep," not as a hundred years, but you read it in your newspapers and then you misquote it, was [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You're reading the sentence you're tying to Benito Mussolini, wrong. But it's not a saying from that time, it's an 80-year-old saying from around 1848. So I suggest you document yourself, because, you know, we're all risking our lives together to be ignorant. And just ignoring it was basically the basis, if we're going back, for fascism. When we connect everything together, this ignorance and fascism, I can only end with "Death of fascism, freedom of the people!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today's debate is very serious. I took all the arguments very seriously. If we fold those ballast phrases that are part of the political rhetoric, we can agree on something that can be shared. The fact is that social dialogue is in crisis in these times of crisis. This is also reflected in attempts to reach agreement with trade unions in the best possible way, including by harmonising the Wage System Act and the Collective Agreement Act to find a decision-making system where the will of the majority would be exercised. So I understand the intention of the government that it is well-intentioned from this point of view. On the other hand, I am in trouble to see that such an attempt actually leads to the end of the dialogue. I've made a lot of promises, and since yesterday's last attempt between the unions and the government, many of us have pledged to find a compromise. There were a few steps to compromise. Probably on both sides. Today, we decide whether changing the rules of the game at the moment when the game is still taking place would achieve something that otherwise cannot be achieved. The fact is, there's no money. The fact is that we could go before the public and before the unions, as advised by Comrade Gorenak, and say frankly, there is no money, we have to lower wages, etc. If we did, of course the street would happen right now. The government is trying to give the union dialogue a way that would nevertheless be sustainable to comply with legislation. Now, the effect of this experiment is questionable. I, too, have a dilemma when I think about what will happen if the situation is exacerbated, if we do not find a compromise and if there is a strike that could paralyze the country. That could happen. If we are at that point where we have to negotiate again on the same things and take a step back, the loss will be even greater. So, my call inside the coalition, inside the party was always in the direction, let's make a deal, to the end. If it's still necessary today, all night, but let's find a compromise. Unfortunately, when we discuss it in the National Assembly, it seems that everything is too late, we will today vote on a law that does not personally convince me. It doesn't convince me because we do intervene in the main, key values of collective agreements. If we look at what's going on outside the border, the debate is equivalent. Berlusconi's government is doing the same. It seeks to reduce public financial spending in a way that even attempts to enforce government will through decrees. Our government won't allow it. Our government, however, is trying to maintain some dignity, even in relation to trade unions. But my dilemma arises when I have a relationship with a majority and a minority within a union movement. I think it's one of the key misunderstandings. Syndicates are a reflection of different categories, different sectors. They may also have different needs, and at times it is quick on the one hand and on the other hand the temptation to act on principle: share and rule. On both sides is this temptation. But it's the government that has the key responsibility for what's going on. If there's a strike tomorrow and there's actually a social conflict tomorrow, we'll all forget the shared responsibility, but the responsibility falls only on the government and on the government coalition. We are well aware of this, and when we discuss this law — of course, believe it — there are many open questions, many dilemmas. I believe and trust in the minister, trust in the government. I know that she was doing well and that she was trying to achieve an agreement with maximum professionalism and also an effort that is unfortunately not available today. That is why my attitude towards this law — I admit — is inconvenient. I cannot participate in a project where one part of the unions will remain neglected, who will feel played, who will feel the fact, but what happens as a way to change the rules of the game when the game takes place. These are the impressions that are justified, justified, but not the objective of the government. This is not the goal of the government. The aim of the government is to achieve a result that will prevent the Greek script for Slovenia. There's no money. So, I think it is on the conscience of all of us to find a way to achieve results and agreements where the public financial picture will not continue to suffer new and new steps towards the Greek script. Is that possible? I think it is possible that if we try to look for other items, but it is necessary to be very clear and very direct where we can save and that, this thought is lacking both to the coalition and to the opposition. Are we really doing everything we can not to reach into the pay system and that where there may be too much unnecessary unnecessary investment, where there is a lot of purchases that may not be so urgent, where Slovenia participates in wars and will, of course, become a black hole, a financial black hole for this country, or is it possible to say drasticly and not to think about other sacrifices? Well, I want to be very principled. Until this country and this government cut down and cut off those costs and those that are not necessary, until then I will find it difficult to interfere with the pay system and, above all, to interfere with the principles of the collective agreement. If this law means actually prejudging these principles, of course my vote here is not self-evident. Therefore, until the end of this debate, I will decide for myself my vote and my vote on the arguments that I will listen to and also try to metabolise and understand. The fact is that neither side of them has made the greatest effort to reach an agreement. However, I would advise everyone, be a little more effective, more bold, but not at the end of the dialogue. Reverse – continuing this dialogue. Without blackmail, the sentence is a kind of pressure. But the fact is, if someone doesn't care about the consequences of this sentence, I feel very much like a citizen and an MP. I'm worried about what's gonna happen tomorrow. I'm worried about what's going on today. That is why I expect governments and trade unions to continue talks, negotiations and to come up with country-friendly solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My current performance will be more than a response to some performances. Mrs. Pechanova, let's both be correct. You've given me the right numbers, and I've told me the numbers that the secretary sent me. You were talking about government and I was talking about the public sector. So we're both right. And my performance isn't populist. We're both right. In the public administration, as you say, and in the public sector, as I say. However, it comes from the question of the Member State to which the Minister answered me and even corrected the number for one up, as I said in the question of the Member State. And part two, I'll say so. If you think the word "murder of social dialogue" is, then I must say the word that is closer to my actual state of affairs "that is murder in a terrible way" if I express myself in accordance with the provisions of the Penal Code. Yeah, that's right, that's right. Not so much over social dialogue. By the way, in your coalition contract, I'm not going to quote what it says on time, even though I have enough of it, once again. There you said you'd be significantly better, socially sensitive. That's what you said there. And the truth is not that, from our conversation with Mr Struklje, as well as Mr Possei, the situation is clear – we have never received such ultimatums. That's what unionists say, but both unionists. Don't divide them into one or the other. That's what they both say. We have never experienced such things, and there have been quite a few governments in this country. Yes, I agree with that, there is no money, as Mr. Yuri said. If there is really no money, which we all know is gone, and irresponsible to any government in this country, even existing, it would be necessary to increase wages. If 40,000 people have been left without wages and on the road and with social support, then public servants of all categories do not have the right to demand salary increases. But no one's asking for a raise. I've said that a few times. However, despite the Minister's discussion of hypothetical figures, the proposal of Mr Posei's trade unions is also financially neutral. But if you have any documents from May or June, they're not real documents anymore. They're not real documents anymore. The real documents you had at the end of the trade union negotiations should be used when this dialogue was concluded. Once again, I warn you, my resentment goes to painting people and painting a government that is incapable, not to the other, not to the minister – perhaps I expect even more of her than the Prime Minister of the Government to come before the cameras and the Slovenes and say, "The treasure is empty." You don't have to add, "We screwed up." I'll understand that, too. And say, "There are no wage increases. We're forced to lower them." Say that, too. I am deeply convinced, Mr Juri, that there is less chance for the street if, in a little dramatic performance, it would be right to be, because the situation is dramatic, the Minister or the President of the Government invites the Slovenians and says, "Yes, we can't do otherwise." There's less chance of any street if that happened. It would be wise for today's law to fall because then the Prime Minister of the Government will be forced to do so. He's right to do it, because he has to do it. Anyone sitting in that office would have to do it in a financial situation like this. We all know that. But that's why it's painful that now we paint people and make them and you want to lead them to a state when we say, "Social dialogue is going on, social dialogue has succeeded, with seven unions of the twenty-nine we signed, so it's all legal." I think there's a greater possibility of a street in this situation. Don't say I'm calling the street. I don't want to say any of this. You were talking about the street. But this street is predicted for 27. 9. I think the adoption of today's law will speed it up, in my opinion. And I don't want that in any way. There is something else that I have never agreed with you, Mr Yuri, in fact at any of your performances. You've taken such an ungrateful place on my website several times. Today you are promising to take an honorary place on my website, given your contribution, but on condition that I check your vote at the end. If that's the case, I'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Gorenak! I would like to state that this is a demand that means an increase in wages as well as an increase in the position of an individual. The unions have never agreed to neutralisation. Mr Gorenak, I will read you an official document, an official counter-proposal, negotiating document that is exactly like "sit down" here, and it has been addressed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and means an increase in wages. Otherwise, they'd take it right away. It means borrowing an additional 50 million in 2011 under this heading – maintaining the dynamics of eliminating wage imbalances. The proposal addressed by the Government at the meeting was as follows with regard to two elements: coordination with inflation and elimination. The elimination of the fifth eighth of the disproportionates is said to have divided the quarters into eighths, the fourth is one hundred million, the eighth is fifty, is carried out by one. Ten. 2010, the sixth eights of 1. Ten. 2011, 7th eighths of 1st. Ten. 2012, the eighth eights of 1. Ten. 2013 If, on the basis of an intervention measure, the balance of disproportionates in basic salaries is suspended beyond those limits 1. A further four years shall be paid to the staff from 1. Ten. 2010 and so on. That's their negotiation proposal. The second proposal – with regard to coordination with inflation, they did not agree to remove the fuse, this is a replacement where members of the informal talks may have misled you – is as follows: that general harmonisation should take place in 2012 if actual inflation exceeds 1% in 2011. Forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development: We expect the projected inflation to be around 2% in 2011, which means an additional 40 million under this heading. So, this negotiating proposal, which was addressed by the Government 23. The 8th was an additional €90 million. Before that, however, we initialled an agreement in July because there was a consensus that these last two quarters would be completely divided, not into eights, cancel when 3% of economic growth is justified if you want to raise wages. Why the removal of salary imbalances is not at risk, I have already said today. As early as September 2008, the least privileged groups have already received a significant share of over 4 pay-as-you-go classes and are now aligned, where they have already been targeted. Socially sensitive society. I hope that you were in the plenary room earlier when I said what other measures are possible and why we want to conclude a social dialogue successfully. Because all other measures are less favourable for an individual public servant. This is an assessment of all representative unions. Not one has agreed to eliminate the wage imbalances, the neutralization. Well, go ahead and lower it. This is a letter from this same negotiating group, which is called that but is not negotiated. 22. 7. After an informal meeting, I was asked to present this to the Government. That was a month before this amendment. Mr Posei writes to me, and I am familiar with this to the Government that they have come to the following conclusions after reflection: "We find that membership of the reduction of basic salaries would not be accepted." This is also the opinion of all members of the Government. They also "appreciate that it is imperative that the agreed dynamic of eliminating disproportionates be maintained." They're already predicting a possible change to an eighth. That's all we got from them, Mr. Gorenak. Not a word about the regression. In the first steps, we have targeted that there would be no regression in 2011 at all, because we have found that we will not be able to agree on this in the social dialogue. And that's the category that's in the collective agreement. We have successfully agreed that there will be no need to provide an additional 14 million for the increase from the agreed regression payment even in 2011 of 692, if I am not mistaken, but 635 people should already be paid. But we need another $14 million to do that. So the problem is that we have not successfully concluded, honourable Members and Members, the social dialogue, because we should be in an additional debt for everything that goes on over what is agreed and what is proposed by the annex. More and better say experts about a higher deficit than 5%. In Dr. Mencinger's last letter, he says, "declining wages is bad because there's no government spending." We've taken that into account, too. Pays don't go down. The position of a public servant shall not be reduced. This may indicate social sensitivity, Mr. Gorenak. We do not forgive employees, but we do not replace those who leave in important work, at least in the government. Therefore, since it is also the opinion of economic experts that forgiveness is the moment when the number of unemployed in the real sector is again close to 100,000, it is only a shift from one ministry to another if you want. Thus, the Ministry of Labour would have to provide compensation for active employment policies, for the compensation of the unemployed, for the so many who have been laid off in the public sector, when we know what they are like and how long they receive them, and for the discharges. All of this would cost us so much and unemployment would increase. We have also assessed this measure in terms of forgiving more civil servants, even though public spending does not allow it to be inappropriate in the light of the situation. The crisis group has seriously discussed all these measures. So that social sensitivity can be found in these elements, that the individual position, the position of employee, for the good work of which we as an employer are immeasurably interested. Therefore, we do not want to make it worse to the extent that it is no longer motivated to work for the public benefit if you want, because this is a mission for public servants, even for the safety of employment, if you want. With this agreement, if we conclude it with a sufficient majority, we estimate that an important majority of public servants can reach agreement, and that the rest is worse for them. This is what we as an employer estimate, linear salary reduction, etc. The representative unions do not agree to this either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, coworkers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, the situation in the country is poor, in a material sense, and it is getting worse in the spirit. People become apathetic, feel powerless, or powerless. I feel powerless too, I have to admit. The most likely powerless to rule such a situation within the government, for with such demands that come before them, it is simply necessary to make one move, and that is probably why such a law is on the table. We are lucky that Slovenia was in good shape when the crisis occurred. That we were moderately indebted and still among the less indebted or somewhere in the middle. At least that's why we're in the same condition we are. The economic, financial crisis has caught us – I can say – unprepared. But I know entrepreneurs who have been expecting this situation for two years before the crisis. Entrepreneurs from my environment. I must say, they have successfully overcome the crisis. Today they are re-employing, they are negotiating for a business to be realised in 2012. When I was sitting in this office when this deal was being made – I was really happy that this was happening in my environment – I can say that these are not Taiwanese entrepreneurs. These are entrepreneurs who have created a company from nothing that lives with this company and who also live with the environment. These companies did not happen without salaries being paid, nor did they happen without the payment of loans and liabilities from personal income. This too means the very state of the spirit in this environment. I won't support the law. I'll support the SDS amendment. However, I am convinced that savings must be saved and that it is necessary to stop the growth of personal income in the public sector. When we say today that employment should be reduced or employees reduced in the public sector – yes, I don't know if this is exactly true because companies have exactly the same administrative burden as they used to have. Companies have exactly the same costs with accounting, but with everything, despite the fact that there is less work – I think it is in most parts, even in public administration. Therefore, it is most likely also justified that jobs in public administration will not be reduced, but rather that wage increases should be prevented. You know, when I was moving from the real sector, and once I was in one of the workshops of a repairman who had a board up there, it said, "You have to wait for miracles, we can't do them right now, and we can do magic if we want." These unions coming before the government might read itudi such a record because a miracle can happen. It happens that we sit down and talk and that we are real, that we can give, that we will not get in the tougher situation we are in. If there's no money, there's nowhere to take it from. I think it's important to get real and wait for this miracle to be arranged and to get on the real ground. Because, as I have already said, in the public sector, wages will not go down, but they will not go up, jobs will not shrink. It is also true that even in the public sector, wages in general are not good and we consider workers to be less demanding. But today, university-educated people are also poorly paid for their work. You have to think about everything, and you have to find the right relationship with everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! In a given situation, the government is a large target, where more and more people would like to throw a stone because they see that it is difficult to miss. He has great problems and is doing what he thinks is good in a given situation of the economic and financial crisis. The problem is also wages, not just in the public sector, where I think they are all too low. The problem is that too low wages are also in the economy if we subtract managers. This is actually our employer in the public sector. The real sector must pay taxes and contributions in order to preserve the social state and ensure an adequate amount of wage funds in the public sector. In doing so, it is impossible to claim that it was a mistake to adopt the Act on the Elimination of Wage Disarms. The problem is that realisation is needed when there is nothing to take, that the law was passed just before the incursion – if we can call it – of the economic crisis, when the realisation was 300 million or more and is virtually impossible, at the same time the government found itself with a substantial increase in the number of unemployed and the stagnation of wages in the real sector, it is said in the economy, and in the face of the unfair sharing of previous profits – if we are talking about capital – there is not enough in the amount of income in the budget, so that we can realize the elimination of wage imbalances in time and in time as they were intended. I am on the side of trade unions when they claim that they do not deviate from their legitimate and legal, legal rights conferred on them by the Law on the Elimination of Wages. However, I call on them to understand that this cannot be realized now, not only because of public sector employees, because we have to withstand all the pressures and deterioration of the euro position in the euro area. We must not allow any greater debt that leads us to the Greek scenario, we cannot provide wages on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren, i.e. wage management in the public sector for any price immediately and today, with an obligation that goes beyond the expected constraints that are severe. The country has taken much to maintain the level of social state achieved and to ensure solidarity to the extent that we urgently need. I am glad that a while ago, today, I have observed that doctors have frozen their refusal to consent to extended working hours, for it was really not good that they took the sick people hostage in this country four months before the consequences of a substantial reduction in their on-call income. I'm glad they made up their minds. I understand this decision by 1.1. when their incomes are to be reduced somewhat for duty, an agreement has been reached on how much duty we need, where and how this should be rewarded, so that we can all maintain an adequate health level for our people together. In this situation, I wish and ensure that all employees in this country, including the public sector, are required. At the same time, however, I ask that trade unions do not think about a general sentence that will certainly exacerbate the material situation of the State and make it even more difficult to carry out later realisations in the elimination of wage imbalances, because all large sentences do such or other damage, the backlog in public administration and public sector work. This cannot provide the resources that are lacking today for everyone to be satisfied with what needs to be done. It is right that we all pay our share in the crisis, including in the public sector. [[End of discussion warning sign]] In this respect, everything will have to be done to keep public finances within those frameworks so that the country does not go bankrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we have the right law on the table and we're not discussing the right issue. The old Slovenian proverb says: No work she did not eat. Someone, two years ago, a threesome came along or a political party, because it doesn't matter, with some of this password: Slovenia deserves better guidance. Or something like that. After two years, you find that you can't run a country and you can't run it, not only can't do it, you don't know. You don't even know how to talk. You don't know how to talk to what happened to you when you were in the opposition, holy, you should also confess your sins and say: Clearly, something will have to be done, but the nation must decide how to proceed. At this point, I believe that 25% of all citizens and citizens trust you. No government has ever had such a low rating. You've registered a downsizing to 40% of unionists. Next time, two or three months from now, you'll be married, I don't know, 20 and then nothing. Here, too, is the part that the colleagues discussed, both Jerovšek and Yuri, about the possibility of listening or ignoring. What's the origin of ignorance? This is where you started taking the country. See, in another part, finance today says: "There are both fine taxes and Slovenian businessmen looking for bends in politics." So it's not in the positive sense of any successful political businessmen, but in this sense, looking for curves. What's the answer to that? Growth of the economy or reduction of wages in the public sector. Growth of the economy or talking to trade unions. Growth of the economy and how to do that, what to do? Can you be helped by such unions and by the opposition? Just look at how many different budget proposals outside the budgets in other extraordinary sessions and so on we have proposed. What did you do with it? You just ignored everything. Just remember when you were still in the opposition, what did you do with the reform in terms of regionalisation? You killed her. If we had it, it would be much better today in this country, significantly better. How do you run the country? So, economy, wage cuts, that is, wage cuts instead of economic growth, new jobs. And why do you have it? You've got all kinds of Kramars, you've got for Cordès. Remember, two years and then four years later, there was another option in power. The first two years Demos conquered this country, then the four years when there was another option in power was economic growth. At first, there were questions about new jobs, about work, first work, then division. First the work, then the food. But in view of this, we warn you all the time, including in all budgets, rebalancings and so on. Have you looked at your entire management dimension or to be in power as to how much of the so-called criminal privatisation, theft, and so on has been collected? Did you do anything about it? How many reserves are there on this? What do you allow today? The Minister of Finance says, you know, because we agree that it is possible to purchase shares of the New Ljubljana Bank, one state-owned company whose ownership is 80% of the country, that it is obvious or, if something is wrong, we will wait for what the audits will show. But that immediately changed, they immediately sold it off and so on. So obviously something wasn't right. Why do you allow, on one side, a huge, wide-wide theft of the state share and, on the other hand, you take the ones that are the most, but the ones that are the least powerful? But you know, this is going to some point. But when it does, it will. Ask for government coalitions, unions, come on, please, come on, tighten up a little more! There are problems, various Cordegas, various Kramars, various Stoices. Look, you'll find it for the Stoices overnight. But you took your student diet. Or see, overnight, in an hour or two, the prison of state roads happens, because a gentleman in Ljubljana remembers that this is necessary and there is no basis. What happened? How much political corruption is behind this and for this political corruption, how much property thefts and how much poverty, of course, are large, large crowds. Instead of listening and together with the unions, the opposition has drawn up a budget that would bring new jobs that would bring work. The only way out of this is work. Yes, we hear the Anti-Corruption Commission finds that Mr Golobič, who lied to the Slovenian public, is not the owner of companies, does not have them abroad, although he was 120% under that legislation, even so he was able to legally run, compete in calls and, of course, companies received state money for this. And that's hygienic? Is that normal? Is that moral? Then you come to the National Assembly, so, now let's change the law. You will. You'll be in the government coalition. That's your problem. We won't support him. I will support this amendment, which brings the law back to the way it was. How many proposals were made with regard to the measures of exit from the recession by the opposition? How many of you have we warned about changing operational programmes, using European funds? By the end of the year, you'll have to show and tell us how much is left. N + 3 is 31. 12. 2010's closing. The period 2007-2013 is the second half. Nothing. Even if we bring you so-called secret letters between ministers and secretaries of state and so on, as you grow within each other, because some do not agree, some will resign and so on. It just doesn't work that way. You said "delegation." Yes, because we're still here somewhere, yes, yet, but the debt trend is so close that we'll be at a very fast point like some other countries. After 2 billion years of debt, not for investments, but for what is spent, it is abnormal to accept. Look at the way your subsidies went down to the companies for having, in saying, workers at home. No, they were working overtime. Turns out, from Gorenje to not know how many companies, what was going on, how many frauds. What have you actually done in these two years? To bring the state to the cant, to commit it, workers are before there are about 100,000 unemployed, students to pick up lunches, pensioners have – the only thing that worked – finally a thousand euros in pension, I mean, that was said two years ago, please, with some demagogies. But, look, you're in power, you're in government, and you should be running this country. You don't do that. You've managed to bring all of this to zero. Where were you successful? You have to admit, you have been. One point. You've lost the Slovenian sea. That's me. But you're listening to the Croats. If they tell you to the left, left, right, right, steady, steady. That's me. And in this country, you listen to someone else. The whole government. What the Ljubljana mayor says is yes, it's done peacefully, it's done. It's the only thing, but not the rest. But it's not government. Let's be concrete. We signed contracts with children's carriers to school 14 days ago. EUR 5 per km, EUR 5 per km. Why do you think?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u48	Mr Pukšič, Articles 1 and 2 and the amendment to this Article are discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u49	You're all or they've spoken widely, it's connected to the whole state. Well, if it weren't for these problems, we wouldn't be having this marriage on the table today, then we wouldn't be talking about it. Then it wouldn't be a problem like that. Why? Because there are some conditions and you leave to those who can take very little where they can take. What exactly is waiting for us after all this? We are awaiting the preparation of the 2011 budget, which you are preparing, where you will increase public spending in one way or another through individual ministries, to set up additional agencies. Today we received in Slovenian municipalities the mayor at tables from some environmental monitoring agency one such thick book. And who in God's name is going to look at her and read what's going to start with her? I mean, look, first of all, the reserves are in other areas, not those that are least paid, not those. They did, but she basically didn't eat without work. If you do not go in the direction of the preparation budget by opening jobs to open up the possibility of using European funds, give half a billion euros to the regional development of municipalities, you will see how the investment cycle will start. Just like he did with the 600 million. That's it, let's go! But in two years you haven't been able to make one call through. In short, this law is unacceptable. And – what's Socialdemocrati already? I feel like this is one orthodox right-wing government of orthodox capitalism. If we look at where the different tycoons come from, then I know what you're doing with this country. But it's not right. You're not on the right track. That's what we've been telling you here in the opposition for two years now, that's what the employees are telling you, that's what they call union.It's time to think about it and not ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u50	Thank you. He's got the word. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't hear him call you. Mr. Puksich, did you name him? Yes, please, you have a replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u51	He called me in context with Luke Yuri, who also mentioned that we were talking about ignorance, but in a different way. I have to explain. In fact, I was talking about ignorance, and in the debate he was replicating my colleague Yuri because I mentioned his ascension and fraternization with Mussolini. He said fascism was based on ignorance. This is where he appears to be flirting, because Jung's plan was unwitting. It was always on the plan. But my colleague Yuri told me it wasn't Mussolini's. And, see, on the Italian website La Storia di Duce it's like the password of Mussolini and fascism. So don't sneak away. And I'm surprised that Minister Luksic, who takes care of the education of young people at universities, did not react, did not protest. This is an unheard-of, such flirting with fascism in the party of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u52	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u53	And Duce also started out as a socialist. And Hitler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u54	Mr Jerovšek, we have an article and an amendment in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u55	We know where it ended.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u56	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor. Mr. Tiny, there's no replica on the replica. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me. You have the floor. Thank you for warning me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. We finally made a deal. The Public Sector Wages Act, which is dealt with under an urgent procedure, is considered necessary by the Government to achieve public financial sustainability in 2011 and 2012. According to the Government, this is a matter that cannot be postponed. It is obvious that the case is so urgent that it cannot be dealt with at a regular September meeting, but that the proposed law must be adopted at an emergency meeting following an emergency procedure, as the failure to implement these measures would jeopardise the state of public finances in the country. The proposer of amendments is convinced that the current law is too clear, as well as a collective agreement, because it does not reflect the criteria for assessing whether unions, signatories, represent at least four different public sector activities that are not defined in any regulation. In the field of the public sector, 29 representative trade unions representing individual public sector activities or individual public sector professions are under-expressed for the number of representations under the collective agreement by trade unions from different sectors or professions with at least 10 % of workers from each sector, activity or profession. While the current provisions provide an opportunity for an assessment, the regulation is flawed because it does not require a determination of the condition before the publication of the contract, so it is possible to publish a collective agreement which is not in force. By amending the law, the proposer wants to provide a clear regulatory framework for the conclusion of a collective contract for the public sector, where the majority of public sector employees will be represented. The collective contract shall be valid if signed by four trade unions of different activities whose membership exceeds 40% of all employees in the public sector. So the contract does not have to be signed by most representative unions, but by a smaller number, at least four. The amendment of the law would allow for the application of an annex to a collective agreement on the freezing of salaries in the public sector signed by only 6 out of 29 unions. The agreement will shift the elimination of wage imbalances to at least 3% of economic growth in Slovenia. This would save the government about 200 million euros over the next two years. The unity of the pay system and the specific level of wages are certainly a problem to be reconciled with such numerical unions. Especially if we think that some species are not actually part of this set. In particular, doctors who would suggest that they should be expelled from the public administration are from the public servants sector. Surely, the amendment of the law also offers positive changes, which would be complemented by proposals from all trade unions, which in fact concern this law and which it will serve in the conclusion of collective agreements, which must always be prepared and signed to the satisfaction of at least the majority of trade unions and membership in the public sector. It is certainly unacceptable, however, that the Government, as we have heard on the Committee today, has blackmailed trade unions with the law only to achieve its own objective. It is also right to explain why this financial collapse has occurred, which is certainly not the fault of the Minister of Public Administration, who is fighting so fiercely to get the country out of the crisis. Of course, it was to be expected that the government would sooner or later cut itself into the public sector. For when in the real sector that staggers and no longer takes anything, it is necessary to shrink where consumption is large and inviolability is almost guaranteed. I'm sure we need to raise the issue more broadly and find out why it ever happened. Only on this basis will we be able to justify and adopt the set objectives of the Public Sector Wages Act, which, before adoption, raises pressure on people who are certainly not to blame for this situation. Poverty does not create the poor. It is created by social and economic systems designed by institutions and concepts that form these systems and policies that they implement. The government should solve problems, not even deepen them and create new ones. Increasingly, some are also aware that the situation is getting worse on the basis of non-payment of taxes and contributions and non-action by officials, as the Kosovo Commission has also pointed out, which has also assessed it as a corrupt act. The Kosovo Commission notes that nothing has been done since 2007 to protect the rights of workers, so that the responsibility of the ministers who run these departments is so much greater, as it has been a crime all along, as Mr Zalar, Minister of Justice, has now pointed out. It is the abandonment of the duty to monitor and act in the face of obvious grave violations of the fundamental rights of workers. Employers were deliberately allowed to gain an unjustified benefit corresponding to the definition of corruption under the Anti-Corruption Act. It is also noted that there is a lack of integrity in officials who have not responded to the warnings. Of course, it is interesting how these services can only now detect irregularities, and what is the reason why they have not recognized it so far. It is interesting why the GPU did not react even when it received a written warning from the Republic tax administration to act and nothing happened. Obviously, politics has too much influence on law enforcement, which should not have happened. Workers' rights and dignity have been violated for more than 10 years and not just since 2007, as the Kosovo Commission has pointed out. Because since this year, irregularities have only increased and peaked in 2009 and 2010. Failure to pay contributions is a criminal offence which must be dealt with by the prosecution. But it's about 150 companies like that. Durs reports more than €70 million in unpaid taxes. For the bad business of companies, including those co-owned by the state, it is certainly not politics, but in most cases the will of management authorities and the amount of money abroad to private accounts. If we're taking public servants, it's okay to know who we're giving to. The coalition has decided that we must give 400 million to Greece. She decided to make a guarantee of over two billion dollars. The President of the Government has promised that we will also pay the Croatian depositors in the Ljubljana Bank, and there will probably be something else. God help this Europe that's so big. Our country is so small, and we are saving the stability of the euro and the economy of the countries that are part of this Europe with guarantees, of course those who are in economic difficulties due to financial problems. This was the decision of the coalition, although their argument that the stability of the euro depends on our contribution did not convince the Slovenians, as the story also has a different explanation. That the problem of survival of the population is truly present proves the collection of various needs and food at the close of Prevent and the non-payment of wages in Vegrad. When I was recently talking to a citizen who was visibly revolutionized, he said to me, "I would understand that school supplies and food are gathering for people who have experienced natural disasters. But I haven't heard yet, and I'm old enough to be doing this kind of action somewhere in the world, where crime is the cause, the inability to run administrations and the irresponsibleness of the owners of companies that have stolen and lashed everything. In the previous country, we had a Goli island that was afraid and trembling for criminals, but everyone was afraid of it, so that the effect was maximum. It is not enough that institutions such as the Court of Auditors and Kosovo find that something is wrong if the authorities do not respond to warnings." 11. 8. In 2010 he received a TV commentary on how the revision and cleaning were carried out in Hit as well as in the drawer. The findings should certainly be of interest to anyone else, but certainly to the mayor, the President of the Government, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance. The transfer or selective memory is certainly of no benefit to anyone, but at least the municipal and state treasury. The unions are predicting the general statement, which proves that most do not agree with the government's decisions, and that the President of the Government is not burdensome, since, given the statement he made to the public, he does not care much about the consequences of the sentence. However, this is certainly the position of the Government if the President of the Government says so confidently. Police unions do not require higher salaries, but that the dynamics of payment imbalances be maintained. The police and customs will not get the state on the line with their salaries, as government representatives explain, but the government will destroy the apparatus needed to implement the legislation in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u58	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. In the introduction, the President of the Government and the Minister said that the public sector must share the fate of everyone in the country, and if it is a crisis, it is a crisis for everyone. Of course, we know that the Government is obliged to talk to trade unions and social partners. This is also a promise and practice so far has always been to try to reach as much agreement or compromise as possible, which is as acceptable for all, because this also makes it easier for Members to decide if things are more or less or at least in those key matters. The secretary said they were negotiating, but the unions don't want to negotiate. This would be difficult to establish, given that we are watching the negotiations every day, we are monitoring these meetings daily. If that were the case, we wouldn't have signed the first annex, and there's probably nothing else we could have agreed with the unions. The government says that the changes are necessary and the explanation states that the law must be adopted following an urgent procedure, otherwise the non-refoulement would seriously endanger the public financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia. No one wonders, of course, what the financial situation is causing the strike and what the impact is on the strike of so many and so many workers. With its arguments, the government obviously managed to convince only 6 trade unions and, of course, because it failed with others, it was clear that the social partners or trade unions were hard negotiators, even Virant's reform was not adopted overnight, and it took quite some time for the negotiations to end and that the positions were getting closer, but we finally agreed on one thing in 2008 and then the collective agreement was signed by 25 of the 29 trade unions. This is probably a relationship that suggests that we can talk about the majority or at least the majority of the unions that have reached agreements or negotiations what they have been fighting for. Well, then the government will allow itself some manoeuvre to determine a new quorum, by which six unions will be enough, or probably if the three unions would agree to it, this quorum would probably be different. Of course, we cannot agree to change the rules of the game in the middle of negotiations and in the middle of the game. That is why we have already said in the beginning that we will not support the law because we cannot agree to such a flat-rate change of quorum as is appropriate to anyone at this time. Tomorrow a different quorum may be acceptable, and we will change the matter again. By this reference, to seriously endanger the state of the public finances. A person would take this seriously if he did not always find money for very problematic things, from paying 500 million euros just for interest on loans, to millions for the lease on NPUs, which will never be ours or a building that will never be state property, but always private. In addition, to various transactions with Ultra and its subsidiaries, where the information systems for which a large amount of funds are allocated are being decommissioned on a daily basis. Millions for the already mentioned Contingencies when we are likely to pay some more fines by the EU, when we soar with European money. At first, we know that things don't meet the conditions. That's what we're warning the minister, but of course this government is going through the wall with its head. Similarly, every day we set up new agencies, new institutions, new requirements, or by every law we bring so much and so much new costs, and then we postpone it either to municipalities or to someone else. In this regard, no one wonders what this means for the state's public finances. In our view, it is very ugly for the government to come with a proposal to change the quorum. As it is said, if we were able to convince three, this would be a merciless one, on the basis of which we would change the quorum and then amend the collective agreement further. Let me conclude with a sentence that I have read in one of the media recently, that the government coalition will probably also set up a new quorum for the elections, so that it will remain in power after the next election.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u60	Thank you. Mrs Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, spoke. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate has so far raised some claims related to the public financial situation, the general public financial situation, which is in the context or which sets this bill, which we are talking about today, in a more general context. I think that some of the statements made today require some comments. Although I would like to avoid individual assessments of individual cases that have been exposed, I do not think they belong in today's debate. The sustainability or consolidation of public finances has been mentioned several times. The fact is that the Government has set this consolidation of public finances as one of the medium-term objectives. In the spring, the government announced that the budget deficit, which currently stands at 5%, would gradually decrease. This is also followed by the preparation or follow-up of the Budget Balance and follow-up to the preparation of the 2011 and 2012 supplementary Budget. Why are we thus stressing the importance of the sustainability of public finances and the limitation of the public financial deficit? Notwithstanding the fact that, at this point, when we compare Slovenian indebtedness with that of other European countries, our situation is still relatively favourable, the fact that, in the event of further indebtedness each year, more and more resources of the state budget should be allocated to repay interest and the principals of that debt. And from this comes the amount of EUR 500 million mentioned earlier by the Member. If we want to reduce these costs and so allocate the available resources of the state budget to other measures, let's call them development and investment measures, then we must ensure that the debt remains manageable and that the costs of the state budget for interest payments remain also manageable, at a low and manageable level. It has been repeatedly pointed out that we must also look for other areas in which to save money and that tax evasion or non-payment of taxes and contributions must be limited. In this case, I have to go back a little bit to history. A number of changes to tax rules have been adopted between 2006 and 2007 which have reduced the revenue generated by the State budget. At the same time, however, structural reforms have not been carried out, which would have required them to keep public finances within sustainable frameworks even after the end of the exceptional transition. That is why the lack of measures in the area of structural reforms needs to be taken today when we are in crisis or when we are slowly emerging from the crisis, but this is now much more painful than during the period of conjunctura. What are the savings that we are trying to achieve in other areas? As early as this year, the rebalancing of the budget significantly reduced the volume of investments, and in this case, when we defended the budget balance, we have been criticised in this National Assembly to limit the possibilities for accelerating further development and recovery from the economic crisis. Now that we are trying to limit expenditure in other areas, we are being criticised for having to increase debt or limit expenditure in other areas. In 2010, the so-called domestic investments in the balance sheet are set at EUR 414 million, domestic investment, I think, those investments that are financed exclusively from Slovenian sources and not those co-financed from European sources. For 2011, according to current projections of the Ministry of Finance, we are spending 500 million euros in this context, which is less than the amount of investment in 2008, which means that it is also trying to save money in this area, but some investments are necessary, either because we want to ensure, for example in the field of tax administration, a more efficient collection of public benefits or because we have to meet the commitments we have entered into, either under national contracts or under international contracts or obligations arising from our membership in international organisations. I have already mentioned the non-payment of taxes and contributions. In this area, the Tax Administration is more effective each year. This year there are additional funds planned for the entire year under the subsequent tax liabilities of around 70 million. For next year, we plan to increase these additional revenues by around 100 million euros. An even greater impact will be achieved by updating the tax information system. However, with the gradual introduction of this system, the effects will also be visible gradually. Therefore, we are also trying to act in the area of revenue, not only by amending legislation, but also by making changes in the area of implementation. In the area of expenditure on goods and services, we have introduced restrictions this year. In 2011, the 2011 projections for the preparation of the 2011 supplementary budget provide for an additional limit in relation to 2010, an additional reduction of around 7%. A number of measures are therefore being prepared to consolidate public finances and ensure their medium-term sustainability, not only to maintain or improve our public financial image, but also to maintain a solid rating of Slovenia in international financial markets, which is crucial if we are to continue to provide adequate funding for the state budget through these resources. So briefly and very generally on the general public financial framework, under which the proposed bill should also be addressed, in particular its substantive part in Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u62	Thank you. Ms Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, also spoke. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to make a few statements by the distinguished MEP Jerajeva to demente and explain that she does not hold that the Government would play lightly and look for exactly the quorum that this moment might fit her. We're not changing any quorum, Mrs. Jeraj. Your amendment, which you have tabled, is the same as the quorum that we define as primary. And how did this quorum come about? It's a bit of a ruse here. But I don't know if you were a member of the previous term. I have before me an amendment that changed the unanimous quorum proposed by the then single negotiating group of 19 representative unions in 2004. In 2004, an amendment was tabled for the conclusion of the collective agreement, which was fully adopted by Members and which states that, in order to conclude the collective agreement, trade unions must sign at least four activities with a total of more than 40 % of their membership in the public sector. This quorum has existed since 2004 only for the conclusion of a collective agreement and we do not modify or supplement it in any way. It is you, SDS and Nova Slovenija, with an amendment in 2006. It is interesting to have an explanation and an agreement on the amendment made by the then Minister, Mr Virant. The amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups of that majority was: "If the Government and representative trade unions do not agree on the number, the collective agreement shall be deemed to be valid if signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and most of the public sector unions," not even four activities. This is, if you are looking at a transitional provision, Article 8. This was exhausted in order to conclude a collective agreement at the time. What was the explanation given by your parliamentary groups? "In the interest of both governments," then yours, "the Republic of Slovenia as representative unions is that the new pay system will be brought to life as soon as possible. Since negotiations have been ongoing for years, the provisions of this law must not be further blocked." So obviously that quorum was blocking, "the possibility of putting the pay system into effect. But it would certainly have been blocked if we hadn't been able to agree on the count. The proposed solution therefore allows the government and trade unions to agree." In the interim process, during the football game, as you now say, this negligent government is changing. We are not changing any quorum that is in force today. And what did then Minister Virant in support of the amendment of the parliamentary groups say: "Ministry of Public Administration, 15. 6. 2006, supports the proposed amendment, as it prevents the adoption of a collective agreement for the public sector and allows the implementation of wage reform in the public sector as early as this year." This was not the case in 2006 and then ended in 2008. Thus, in the process of negotiating a new salary reform, the quorum has been changed. Because it was a blockade, your minister found out then. So who ever changed the quorum during the game and for what purpose is shown in these documents. That's not my point. Once again, we don't change this quorum. This one's not even up to date because he was exhausted. We the one who is in a collective agreement and still assumes the same rules of the game as the contestants were familiar with as a primitive way of determining the majority. So if it's signed by most unions that represent at least four activities. We define activities, which was a weakness of the current regime, but such a quorum is now considered to be a conclusion and for changes and additions, because they were now different, which should in any case be regulated. But the unions couldn't make a deal about who was right. We have therefore made a subordinate determination by virtue of the quorums currently in force in Article 42. We haven't changed, it's just that, I'm supplementing you, Mrs Jeraj, we're not changing any of the existing ones. The primary is the one in the collective agreement. So, you turned him into some point because of the blockage during the game itself. So, when you impose some unique behaviour here with ease of course on this Government, I can even assess that ours is significantly more sensitive to social dialogue, we express a substantial degree of respect for the agreement that is today in the collective agreement, and we keep this quorum as prima facie, both for conclusion and for change. So, of course, that's not true. And something else, you know, if we knew exactly what the system was, would know that the public sector unions today are in a much worse shape than they were at the time they negotiated for better classification of their representatives who represented them. This was an extremely demanding process, and due to its width and scope, due to the various interests, it was certainly extremely demanding, but still easier. It's easier at the point because it went where the unions did exactly what they were, of course, set up to improve the position of public servants. These negotiations, which we now have with them, are fundamentally different types. They're not in the skin that makes them feel good and the government doesn't. The financial, public financial situation unfortunately makes the dress that we have and is so one and the other too tight for everyone right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u64	Thank you. Would you like to discuss it again? I'm opening an application? Mr. Brultz, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u65	Nicely greeted! I was really thinking whether to discuss it or not. But I'm worried, because in this House, too, today, heavy words have fallen, murder in a terrible way, let's take a screwdriver, nature. The union leader says on TV, but there's going to be a war. Semolič encouraged young people in the Prešeren Square. Then we know what happened to the facade in Parliament, etc. Calling on the street, of course, poses a great threat. I wonder what holes the unionists will take when the war is really over. But every day I hear there's no social dialogue. I don't know, then hundreds of hours talking to the Minister, the ministers and the government. Isn't this social dialogue? What's that? Either these people are deaf or deaf, so we don't know each other. Without the government's actions, we won't see a solution at the end of the tunnel. I hope to follow the events in France, Germany and so on, what are the measures there, what are the responses, what I expect in England, say what is going on, and these are the great economic forces. We are very dependent on it, and if we do not think properly and solve problems, then it will be really bad. We all know that debt is out of the question so that our descendants can live decently. We know that wages don't go down, which is important information. This is not said to remain a concern for those who have the lowest personal events, that there remains concern for those who really need help in all environments, even in the local environment, at least I know how to save it with us, but we still have the most fans in Turkey, and that I do not list anything else and that it is not about forgiving workers, even though there are reserves in municipal administrations, even in ministries. That's what we need to talk about. I think it's all too much talk about apathy, about hopelessness and the like. Even in the environment where I live, it's everyday. At the same time, if we make one small inventory, we see that large systems, at least in Goriška, are re-employing, have export successes and move on. With little steps, but it's going, I won't mention it. It's a spark of autoelectrics. The guest, the MIP is rising and so on. That we have a whole range of small economies, craftsmen who export. The Goriška Misar is equipping ships, luxury ships in Norway. People dearly, but also with the help of the local community, we share a million EUR 600,000 in interest-free loans, 960,000 euros in grants to agriculture, the economy, small economy, crafts and the like. I am sure that our task is, of course, also here in Parliament to establish a paying discipline. It's a cancer wound to our economy. It is necessary to update the Public Procurement Act, although it is newer. We can't get any investment through because they're always complaining and the construction isn't going and we're turning 5, 6, 7 million euros and it's standing and the builders aren't working. Just for setting up some big builders, small and similar. So, here's the backup. The cost of the country should be reduced and the economy should be taxed. There are also options for how this can be done. I must say that in Slovenia we have at many levels such a superstandard that is not in Europe. I speak responsibly, in education, in health. Hasap gave us fantastic expenses. Go to the toilet in Venice, what in Venice, in Brussels go to a decent bathroom and in Slovenia, where marble, music, warmed up. This economy can't do it. Me? But that didn't happen today. How much does a fragmented local government produce? And we'd set up new congregations instead of getting together. Yet another municipal spatial plan cannot be made by a small congregation and so on. It's easy to make sidewalks and so on. The help of the local community, but the economy is already questionable, they don't care about technology parks, they don't care about anything. I think that this is a lot of inspiration from the policy, that the situation is black, hopeless and there is no solution. Not a good situation. To get rid of her, to turn her into a better and union leader, we should understand that. I understand they're in trouble. What happened in Mura and Gorenje, now it is necessary to be on the side of the workers, push them and so on, and then it will be what it will be. But we're all sitting on the same boat. I will support the bill because I do not think that the other solution is to continue dialogue at all levels and to make sure that next year, after this hot fall, there will be a better "start" in our economic development area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u66	Thank you. Mrs Jeraiev took the floor. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u67	All I wanted to tell the secretary was that this amendment she quoted to me and it was ours was really ours. But we've summarized it by the negotiating group of public sector unions. It was then led by Drago Ščernjavič and is literally as they proposed. And an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u68	Thank you. The following submitted Mr Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! In fact, this law is a tool to achieve one goal because the government negotiating group has failed to agree with the public sector trade unions. So, it didn't go soft with the talks, deal. However, it is now harder for some to bend down or satisfy — I must say — part of the unions that agree to it is also partly satisfied because in the stage of the elimination of wage imbalances it has gained relatively more than others, but not part of it. As a result, it has also waived the procrastination requirement of trade unions for solidarity. I see it as one big problem. The unions here have broken up a little bit for two reasons. The first reason is for sure the color that some government unionists wear with them all the time. The second is that so far the rights of some have been more respected and realized than others. But I don't think that's really what I'm talking about. Why does the government actually intervene with this modified tool, a slightly more radical tool to achieve this goal, which is called public financial sustainability? I am confident that this goal will not be achieved by the Government with this law. It won't, because it can't, because it's reckless, short-term and insufficient measures. If this law were accompanied by a range of other measures in the area of consolidation, stabilisation of public finances, we would still believe. We also did not believe in the government when it presented the budget rebalancing for this year. This was late in the spring, if not already summer this year, and the budget rebalancing was based on completely flawed assumptions that today appear unrealistic. And we're already short, we're low on revenue, and we're spending pretty good. So, the government has difficulty assessing the reality and this real situation serves as a basis for planning measures. We can read a lot about this in recent times as well as by accompanying economists who assess what the Government has, of course, repeatedly identified as the objective of stabilising public finances. Dearly beloved, by the Government, you will not stabilise public finances by such measures as some freezing or postponing of something for a relatively indefinite period of time. By freezing the salaries of public servants, you will not achieve this goal, only by doing so. We have repeatedly proposed our actions to you in the opposition. One such is also a serious reform of the public sector. But this does not start with saying, I don't know, that much and that much has to be saved at the expense of the public sector, but it is necessary to start with the definition of the business functions that the public sector will still be doing and to what extent, or to what extent, we need and how many people and how we will reward them. In my opinion, wages in the public sector can also be higher if public servants who do so are less able to do the same or more effectively. That's the solution. Public administration and the public sector need modernisation on this account in order to optimise their business functions, what they do to people, to citizens who are some kind of user of this sector, and as a result, of course, some surpluses need to be sought here. I have been a minister in the previous government for four years, and I have told you many times in this Parliament that it would probably not be difficult to find quite a few business functions that the Ministry of Economy is doing entirely well, because we have become members of the euro group, the European Union, the OECD and so on. We are doing a lot of things needlessly so that some bureaucrats – I am talking about state administration now, because the ministry there – continue to have a job that is peace and so on. It's probably worth a lot more than that. Not all segments are the same. It's probably a little different with doctors, with certain agencies, with offices that you set up so quickly, but again it's a little different. You, Your Honor, underestimate the unions that have resisted. You underestimate them for refusing rationalisation in this area. They do not reject this as far as I understand them, but they do not believe that these measures will solve the problem because they do not see any long-term solutions. They expect payment imbalances, as has been discussed with you, to be resolved, promised and, of course, you are only delaying things into an indefinite future. If the lack of measures to revive the economy will make the public financial situation worse in one year, you will come back to them and you will propose something again for 'horuk'. This has been the case so far, and it will obviously be due to the lack of this concept. You are proposing here certain, as a consequence of this bill, some short-term freezing measures. At the same time, there is no sign at the end of the tunnel of how we will stabilise the public sector or also stabilise public finances by rationalising the public sector. Your Honor, there are two Secretaries of State, one ex-wife, one present who is managing the finances. You know how much public consumption is now in the gross domestic product created, and you see where these curves go. If you also presented a skeleton with these measures, how you will manage public finances, public debt, deficits and everything in the long run, then probably someone else would believe you and your path in the negotiations with the unions would be a little easier. But here you underestimate the people who represent these unions who are not anyone. They can read numbers, they can understand suggestions, and you actually want to sell them a story they just don't believe in. Some people just had to believe, they're going to sign, and now you want this to work, because they're the only ones who signed it, and they're going to be less than half. Don't talk about 40% of public sector employees, that's enough. I think it is an essential problem, an essential problem of these perceptions in the absence of social dialogue, when you do not fully approach the solution and do not present to the social partners a comprehensive solution, both short-term, medium-term and long-term. However, someone does not trust you and does not believe that you are, of course, interfering with instruments of coercion or reduction of any necessary quorum to conclude a collective agreement between the Government and the public sector unions. I think that's a problem in this case. This is not a social dialogue. If I listen to a unionist about education and education, which says that this is better than what you said you'd be with intervention law, it's about as if he agreed to cut off one leg instead of shooting him. I guess so. But it's both very bad. Both aren't worthy, not appropriate, and not decent. Therefore, once again, understand also, do not understand the opposition under this amendment and with these commitments, that we are not for saving in the public sector. It's the situation we're in. But we are also for long-term solutions that you do not offer because we need them. The public sector needs serious modernisation in Slovenia, which will be a long and probably painful process when it comes to cutting into a variety of marriages that set standards in education and education, in preschool education and elsewhere. We'll probably hear again, "Yes, because you've determined by the laws of that candy or superstandard." Also, maybe, but in a time that was publicly completely different than it is now. There was no hero then, not here in this House, not in any government, even among all the eminents of the world economy who could predict what would happen and how it would happen. And nobody knows today. Even today, no one knows what will happen in six months or one year from now, whether we will recover or not. Therefore, respectable ones, more than some short-term manoeuvres that do not convince the majority should be cut by anything. The communication, which you are also taking from our side, is that you must offer more to stabilise public finances than to delete investments and postpone or freeze salaries for public officials. More than that. I'm afraid there's no such thing. If we look at the last quarter of economic growth, you can figure out that there's growth here. If you go into the structure, you'll see on the basis of something. This is mainly due to the recovery of markets where our most active partners in the European Union are Germany. But when we talk about domestic consumption, domestic movements, it's a disaster. Here the government is primarily responsible with its policy, if there are also some black scenarios that are not impossible. I hope it doesn't come to them, but it's not impossible. This is said to result in the filling and loading of stocks in the European market and then again to a cramp. Then expect the numbers that will be worse for exports.If there are still bad numbers, as far as the domestic situation is concerned, especially as regards domestic consumption, then the economic activity of God will help and you will still have much less income in the state budget and much more spending on social transfers. And to find here some serious measures that they would believe will help us, and that is not. And, of course, Your Honor, here is the main observation on my part of this proposal. This is once again an attempt, some partial measure, which has mainly upset the public sector unions, and I am sure that I have done not much to solve the medium-term stability problems of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u70	Thank you. Since it's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in. Mr. Crossman, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Every farmer knows that when a farm goes bad, what has to be done. First, it is necessary to lower costs and also adapt certain activities to survive the crisis. Every crisis must be survived by reason, by giving up, and by learning from it. It's not just to survive and then forget everything he's learned. We have lived in times past, I believe, in a kind of mirth, thinking that we would live such a beautiful carefree life for a thousand years. But unfortunately, what happened happened was what it was. Not only are we, but the whole of Europe is in this cramp and there are some spring scientists coming, but some serious recovery at this point is not yet perceived to be looking forward to and expecting us to solve all the problems and not to cut wages, reduce wages and not to reduce savings everywhere. The consumption, on the one hand, has been so horribly linked to this consumption that it is right that instead of factories in each city we have terrible, huge trades from Austria, Italy, Germany, from everywhere. But we must clearly adapt at this point to the situations in which we are living to accept this situation and try to find all the resources and intelligence to get out of this crisis as soon as possible. The steps the Government has taken, even today, I think they are the right steps. In my opinion, it would be unwise to promise and play some kind of apparent luxury and wealth and talk to people, because everything is fine, everything is fine, the wages are probably not going to go down and so on and bring negotiations into line indefinitely. No, I think you should tell me how things are. The government has told us how things are. The negotiations reached a point where it was certainly necessary to find that, as it is, it cannot go on. Of course, it will be better when we — as I said — come out of the crisis. Who doesn't want a well-paid cop, a customs officer, and all the people in the administration? This also eliminates corruption at the final stage, the possibility of being subjected to certain corruption. Each country wishes to have well-paid officials, police officers, customs officers and all those working in such a country. But at this point, what the numbers say may not be the second. I'm sure you can't even buy a new house at home if it costs three times what you have in your bank account. None of us can do that. This is a sobering time that still lasts. But we can also turn it around by saying that the government is incompetent and does not take the right steps at this point because people are unhappy. And I don't know a man who'd be happy if you didn't give him everything that belongs to him, and when it's said everywhere, where to cut himself up for stopping the crisis and stopping the worst consequences of the crisis itself. The amendments that are before us, I will support in any case. You know, with such measures, the opposition is the easiest thing to do, and I will not mention any, nor will I go into a debate with the opposition. But it's the best topic for "inflammation." Here you can burn to the point of disability, and people are even clapping for you. But we need to take a real look at things and come from what we have on the table and from what we can do. And that seems like a mature debate to me. Of course, it is necessary to look for opportunities in such important matters when it comes to the army of employees, when it comes to even an army of employees, to tell people the truth, to pour pure wine and try despite unions - trade unions do what they do. The unions are trying to get the most out of every negotiator. That's their job. But there is also a point where reason must prevail. If reason prevails, then you can take another step forward, or else you can reach a point where there are no more interlocutors. That's the worst point I can think of. But I believe that this government still has interlocutors, strong and good, convinced that this is the right way, so of course I will support the law and also the amendments proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'll be back to the dark. In my opinion, people don't understand what we're talking about. We are therefore talking about the fact that, following the current regulation, most unions should sign the annex, which means 15 out of 29 representative unions. The government has reached six signatures. Since the Government has reached 6 signatures, it amends the law to make these 6 signatures sufficient for representativeness. We must also be correct with the Government and say that the amended rules are also a membership criterion, which reaches 40%. That is true, so it is necessary to be corrected in this regard. Thus, we are amending the law to declare the six signatures already received representative and that the collective agreement would be in force. That's why it's going. But look, when you get five signatures tomorrow, you'll be back with the marriage. When you reach two signatures in the spring, you'll come by marriage. That'll do. Then you'll come with maybe one more, and you'll find a union that has six members, and we have a union that has six members, and it's also representative. Maybe that'll be enough then. That is why we claim that it is a matter of killing social dialogue and murder, as I said, so this is what we say. Instead of doing as Mr Križman said and I agree with him. Survive the crisis, lower costs and tell people in real terms. That's, uh, little is empty, there's no money, and since there's no money, we can't give that money, and you're not getting that money. I'm sure the Slovenians will understand that, and the unionists will understand that. What is painful today is the killing of social dialogue in the way the coalition intended. This means that instead of 15 now, 6 unions will be enough when you're done tomorrow, that won't be enough, you'll say that 5, 4, 3, 2, and you'll come to one of 6 trade unions and this will be representative. See, that's wrong. Tell the people, it's not. I'd be even more radical than Mr. Crossman was. I'm sure we'll be sitting in the National Assembly this year or in the first month of the next year when you bring in an intervention law based on the model of Ireland, and you'll say, we're paying so much and so much because you'll be forced to do so. Because otherwise we'll have Greece. But tell that honestly without lying to people. Tell them the truth and no lies. It's not like we're sitting here all day today, if I consider it a committee, that we're going to declare six unions representative and say, "Bravo, we're having a social dialogue." This is wrong, and I've been protesting this all day. Against it, not against lowering wages. It can't be any different. At the same time, I am deeply hurt by Mr Brulco's performance and I am addressing you and not in the form of a replica, but I must say the following. You know, the master of deception and lies is what you used to say. You said, "calling to the street." I haven't heard from anyone in this hall today who'd like to invite you to the street. No one. No one. "Let's get the screwdriver," you said. Nobody said that in this hall. But if you have misheard, or if you have hearing problems, then handle your problems. I said what? In an illustration, I said that this is the same thing as the social dialogue that you are leading is the way of social dialogue with the unions, that it is the same as taking a screwdriver. So I wasn't talking about the screwdriver that needs to be taken in connection with the street. Don't move! To further back up your sedition, I'll say so. Two years or three years ago, I listened to you talk about a big mega-fun center. From the beginning, yeah, well, then we would, on behalf of the local community, object. Yesterday, yes, because I was three years ago, we were for the local community. Look, if you hadn't gone as far as you are now, today, 3,000 Goricians would have gone to work today, or what do you call it, whether I said it right or wrong, the people of Nova Gorica and the surrounding area, about 3,000 people would have gone to work, and about 3,000 would have paid taxes. And that's the mastery of transfiguration. Today's like this, tomorrow's different. As you wrote in the coalition contract, how beautiful you'll be to the unions, and you're not, I'll have to respond if I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u74	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm supposed to explain to him what happened to Hit and Harrahs, but that's not the subject of today's session. But we can meet outside. When Harrah's talked about Las Vegas in the Vipava Valley, where 10 million guests will arrive in two, three years to be serviced by 3,000 Novogorians. What are you talking about?Oh, my God! Those were the problems. Harrah's didn't know what would happen to environmental problems, where drinking water is, how with electricity, how to service 10 million guests, health care, etc. But I'm quitting because you're saying something you don't have a clue about. But you were talking about the screwdriver, and I wasn't quoting you, but these are hard words that don't belong in Parliament under any circumstances. You won't hear me take the fairies, and you'll have to take someone. No such parables are necessary, for in mild words everything is well spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u76	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I see your hand. That's why I'm reopening my application. Mr. Petan, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So first I'd say I don't mean to use what was said to be the easiest thing the opposition can do. I didn't usually use it, and I don't think so now. But I think I'll tell you something in cases like those mild cases, so there'll be no offense. First, I would say that, as such, the law is not acceptable to me for the reasons that we have already mentioned on behalf of the Group of Members, because it is a matter of ignoring social dialogue. Secondly, what I would like to say is that if this law has to be adopted, then I support our amendment, which somehow puts matters in order. And the next is this, and I agree with one of the speakers when he said that we need to frame ourselves, to put ourselves on the real ground. Here. I support it. It was also said that this was not the way to go. I agree with that, too. That's why you have my vote. But I also agree with the one who said that more is needed. More importantly, there is a need to take such measures on the revenue side, so that the revenue side becomes stronger so that more revenues can be made, especially after statistics have shown in the last period, that domestic consumption has been drastically reduced to walk. In fact, it can't go on like that anymore. But what does this government do? Look, you're preventing domestic consumption. Investments in domestic consumption, and I'll give you a case-by-case. At the Celje fair, solar panels were installed on these large exhibition halls for the production of clean energy. It's probably not as pure as the energy of the sun. But look what happened. A government official came in and said they had to remove those panels. Remove. And what's the signal from that? Given that we have a big factory at home that manufactures these solar panels, and if someone has collectors, if you want, it's not like that. They're not collectors, but it's a better term than the one I used. But it doesn't even matter at the final stage. We have domestic production, we have local knowledge, we have domestic contractors. It's all domestic, and if someone has money, put these solar cells on their roof. No, you are now ordering that at this large fair, where there are many square meters of these cells, be removed. The signal is, people of God, don't put solar cells on your roofs. Even less domestic consumption. Yeah, can there be anything even more in the sky that's soaking up, that at that time, spending can be reduced if someone has money? Someone will say, because it is something small, but in Slovenia such roofs are huge. Such production exists in Slovenia. From each such production something comes into the state treasury. There's probably more of these things. I've only counted one, the one in the sky who's soaking. Remove solar panels from the celery fairground. And I'm not a lawyer at the Celje Fair, but it's a message given by the state authorities in this case. It's a disaster. The second reason I don't like this approach to this marriage is because you're essentially ignoring the unions. You're talking about union dialogue. There's always talk about it. I'm not even going to mention that you have this in some coalition contract, because that's your business, and then it's the whole country. That's true. Under that point, I can come by, too, under your coalition contract. In union deals, in union talks, you change the rules of the game. You change the rules during the game. Now it's not enough what was in the marriage. Now it is enough that six trade unions, trade unions, sign that they are representative and represent 40%, let's say that this is 40% of all members. During the negotiations, you change the rules of the game. This is just as much as if in the first half of the football game there were rules, such as those, but in the second half they would say, but now not all the rules apply and the government would play offside. The rule of offside would not apply to the Government, but this rule would apply to the opponent. Anyone would say, yes, that can't go. That's what you've done in the union talks. That's what's basically unacceptable. I therefore agree with one forerunner who said that the current situation must be brought into line. No one is obvious about this, nor do the unions require that they should not be harmonised according to the situation, but not just by changing the rules in the middle of the game. You can't do that and ignore it. That's why I think we really need to do something more. That's why I gave you an example of those solar cells so we could do more at home, but no, you're making it impossible to do what's possible, even those who have money to spend and behave rationally, and if you want, environmental protection, that I won't speak environmental protection again, because anyway, Slovenia doesn't know how many of those black spots and lawsuits, but I don't know what all of them are when we have to pay the penalties. No, you're preventing domestic consumption. This seems to me to be what is missing in this context, so a law like this, I simply cannot support. But, of course, I support this amendment of ours, which deals with it a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Earlier, one of the fellow Members mentioned that this is a topic with which the opposition can be very public or publicly advertised and lit. Indeed, this could be a topic that could be more used as an opposition group for some populism and, if I say so, for the sake of the government and the ruling coalition. But, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, you must admit that our discussions are not what you think they are. For we are aware that the situation that is serious must be resolved together. We, too, have been ready all the time to look together for such solutions, and above all there is a great willingness of trade unions. I can say that you are very lucky, the ruling coalition and the government, that the unions are so tolerant. If you look back a little, in the previous term, in what cases did the crowds of people on the road collapse when they were just thinking about the possibility of a single tax rate, they were all unions on the streets, students, pensioners. Now that jobs are at risk, a lot of people are actually on the verge of their survival, and things are still, in my opinion, too tolerated. And even the unions that now criticize this law or are critical of it, I think they are doing the right thing. See, such a law as this is not a law that can lead to the expected goal of saving something, but in particular that we will resolve the situation in which Slovenia is increasingly falling. No crisis has so far been resolved in a way that is always just saving, saving, saving. We can save indefinitely, to a state or to a time when there will be no more savings. As someone mentioned earlier, a farmer in a crisis will try to save. Of course, it will save, but not in a way that seed potatoes will eat, which the government has been doing for the last two years. It is necessary to save where saving is meaningful, where it brings some benefits, and in particular to encourage a development cycle in Slovenia and we have not achieved this in Slovenia. For two years now, we have been faced with economic activity essentially walking. Now, while some indications appear to be some kind of resuscitation, mainly due to foreign markets, where the recession has virtually already been exceeded. Unfortunately, we don't have it yet. Where is the exit strategy that you sang in the coalition in January when we adopted it? There is nowhere, colleagues from the coalition or the government, some effects of the exit strategy to revive the economy so that we can have new jobs. It's not like that. I'm afraid that won't happen in the future. This is the key problem of this government, of these coalitions, and of course of Slovenia as such, and now, in fact, of ending social dialogue in such an easy way, not only with the union of the public sector, or you are interrupting social dialogue with everyone, really with everyone. Let us be aware that now, in the same way, there will be a procedure before us that the pension reform will be so accepted that labour law will change in this way. Yeah, where are we gonna go? It's not the right way. Therefore, first of all, give those priorities that will awaken economic growth and, of course, those unions that, I am sure, want to offer some solutions that will contribute to this common objective. We, too, have been prepared in the opposition all the time, and we will also be ready in the future with some suggestions, measures. I hope you don't throw them away as usual for some reason. We have better solutions. Unfortunately, that hasn't turned out to be the case so far. You have no ideas, obviously not knowledge. But you only have enough here to do that. But two more years, and then that'll be the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Franguez, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u81	So we can understand each other in the beginning. I'm alone among those I'm not most pleased with today's adoption of the law as we adopt it. I think that many of the perceptions are that in a way that is not best suited, we are interfering with the established social partnership. As a Social Democrat, I cannot be proud of this. But I understand the circumstances that led to this. I believe that all sides, both the government and the employer, as well as the unions, have tried to negotiate in accordance with their beliefs that there are as many negotiated solutions as possible. This process of social bargaining has been a long one. Unfortunately, it didn't lead to the desired solutions. Today, we are faced with only part of the agreement with the government, even though the majority of the unions in the public sector have supported but not part of the unions. I would like to remind you of the discussions we had when the 2010 budget was adopted. At that time, the biggest opposition party offered an amendment to the National Assembly, which would linearly reduce the costs of the lower sector of the country by EUR 800,000. By the way, this is the narrower sector of the country, which is more or less represented by trade unions that have not acceded to the signing of the amendments to the collective agreement. What would have been the effect of that linear reduction in the state budget of EUR 800,000, which was advocated by the Slovenian Democratic Party at that time. In the final stage, it is precisely that, in a significantly harsher way, a much more unilateral way would actually reach into the mass of wages, beyond social bargaining, despite even trying to reach dialogue, but simply by accepting this National Assembly on a proposal from the SDS – a kind, populist one. The state is tightening the belt on its own. But the effect would be significantly deeper than the changes it is trying to make as responsibly as possible, this government coalition. We would have had the same effect. One-sided intervention in the mass of wages, because otherwise, respected and respected, such money cannot be saved. And to make amends, it wasn't 800 000 euros, it was 800 million euros. I understand the opposition trying today to avoid at least hiding as a coalition Member that I am partly embarrassed. This embarrassment exploits and today tells many stories in the National Assembly. It's part of a political battle. I would just like to see that at a time when, irrespective of the so-called cataclysmic scenarios that you have drawn here just recently, we have managed somehow to overwhelm the first waves of this crisis, when we see that our economy gives weak signs of recovery, and when this economy needs more than ever more incentives to increase competitiveness, increase added value and strengthen our positions on the global market. In this mood, in this situation, the main task of the opposition is to bring it down again. That's legitimate, but I can't figure it out on my own. Public financial stability is what we have written down in this government majority since the beginning of the mandate as a criterion that we will insist on. We have repeatedly called on the opposition to do so. Even when we were faced with re-populistic proposals, how to actually increase public spending for different purposes. We have advocated this fiscal stability because we are determined to defend the country against the ferrets, which, for example, have been occupied by Greece. Therefore, not only by measures taken at home, but also by creative cooperation within the European Union, we are drawing up measures that will defend both the national countries, the Union and the whole, the European Monetary Union and also the most vital parts of our economies against such crises in the future. I would like to, and I do not say for the first time in the National Assembly today that instead of such intervention measures, they would be faced with a comprehensive reform of the public sector. I, too, think that this country needs a comprehensive reform of the public sector. But I understand, I think Irma Pavlinič Krebs has been sitting in negotiations all day since she's minister. It seems to me that we are simply running out of time to make a comprehensive reflection on how we will make this public sector in our country more sophisticated, more modern and more motivated to do quality public service for citizens and citizens and the needs of our community. I wish that was possible. However, you know how long the last reform of the public sector has been going on, that only negotiations on this reform have lasted six years and that it is not possible to do so overnight in these times. I will shake hands today to support this law, knowing that I am not doing a service to social dialogue, but I am doing a service of public financial stability in the hope that the unions will again find their solidarity, that all unions will be able to return to the round table and, in the light of the reality of the situation in which our country stands, be able to find a negotiated solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u82	Thank you. Since it's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I am very afraid of such public financial custodians who, in the last two years, have grown around 22.5% of the gross domestic product of public debt by almost 50% and 40% by the end of this year. Such public financial custodians, who have produced €1.1 billion of deficits in the first half of the year, have still produced negative economic growth when they were already a significant part of the European economy, at least in some minimum growth. Especially such public financial guardians who, in the context of the relatively unpopular amendment of the opposition when adopting the 2010 budget, proposed a reduction in expenditure on the public sector's current consumption, instead proposing a reduction of approximately the same amount of investment. That's the problem. Respectable, if there is a diversion to public finances, it is such an approach. Here we are, in fact, at the heart of the problem: you are dealing with the serious problem of this country — not in the wrong way, but in the wrong way. The measures that you want to push out of public sector unions to freeze wages would probably be acceptable to them if these measures were accompanied by convincing measures to address public sector problems. Therefore, to modernise the public sector, it has been restructured so that citizens have a more cost-effective service. This can be done because in Slovenia the public sector has only so far become boisterous. How will you convince the public sector that you intend to do something serious here when you are setting up new and new agencies? You've established quite a few new agencies, offices, and I don't know what else to do, and you're transferring from the country to these agencies certain functions, you're pleading for the OECD here, and I don't know who else, instead of taking seriously the modernisation of the public sector, taking these reforms seriously and coming to Parliament with solutions. The opposition's amendment to this year's budget was an amendment to encourage you to do so. Of course, you are now abusing this proposal and saying that it was a desire for linear cutting of everything and everywhere. This amendment was a message, and we have explained it several times on both the Committee on Finance and the plenary in the same way as we do now, and of course you do not want to. You think you're only right that we in the opposition are stupid, that Slovenian economists are stupid, that trade unions are stupid, so you have to cut them. Give it a little try, the social dialogue is dialogue, not that you have a programmed solution in mind, and if you fail to reach it, force it. This is not a dialogue and this is not a social partnership and this is not a social state. It's kind of a quiet dictatorship. And if anyone stands in your way, you interfere with your majority cylindrical voting strategy in your own way. This is the problem with your thoughts and suggestions. So, as has been said many times on our part, it is true, we could actually be very populist here, talking, violating rights and so on. We are aware that there is something to be done in the public sector, but we do not agree on the way. I think that public sector services in a number of parts could even be raised qualitatively for less money if, of course, for the first time, the award of law and rational organisation. And to actually do some things that we don't have to do, and we're still doing them, we're just going to shut them down. That is why I spoke again because I see that the debate wanted to instill in the opposition a number of false or even distorted intentions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I did not want to participate in the debate, I participated in the Committee, but I was encouraged by these last discussions, as well as by some which I had listened to earlier, which did not touch on today's topic, which is the adoption of amendments to the law, in fact representation and the conditions for us to change the collective contract for the public sector. But there was talk about everything else that had no connection. I am sad that there has not been a social dialogue between the Government and the unions, among the workers to whom the Government is actually the employer, and they have come to a dead end. Usually, when you get into some pathetic position, someone has to take over the changes. Only the National Assembly can take over this change. I don't agree with Comrade Visian when he says we think the opposition is in a position to think he doesn't know anything and I don't know what else. I think she has shown how such a case can be solved in the way she used it herself in 2006; we are doing the same thing today. A collective agreement for the public sector had to be adopted in 2006. At some point, when negotiations came into place when it was no longer possible, the government was looking for a solution to how to move forward with a contract that would regulate a comprehensive wage system in the public sector. It's been a while. It was necessary to prepare the tariff part, and it was necessary to draw up the contracts in which it was written - and I have already talked about this in the National Assembly - when wage imbalances will also be resolved. In each contract of a public servant, which he then received in 2008, this is exactly what he writes. We're talking about four quarters. This has already changed and changed because of the public finances situation in Slovenia. This is a model made by the then government. I didn't participate in this debate, but that was possible. And how was that possible? It amended the law, which originally referred to in Article 42, to require the conclusion of such a contract of consent of trade unions covering 40% of public servants. 40% is not the majority that we're clear. But they decided in the basic law that it was 40%. The solution was for the signature or validity of this collective agreement that this applies exceptionally only once. The weakness of the law that may happen is that it was not envisaged what the quorum of unions should be when any change would be necessary. He was only talking about acceptance. This error or this defect has been entered into a collective agreement that tells us what kind of quorum is needed for it to change. And he changed what was needed to accept this. You want it or you don't want it, we kind of pushed trade unions to the left or to the right of the political option in 2006. I think that there are people in all unions who are sympathetic to one or the other or to the third party or who are completely apolitical or are not really interested in politics. They're interested in work and they're interested in paying for their work. And they have the right to do so. But we do not have the right to value them and place them in the Struckle Unions, which are in the left option, and the Possession Group, which is now on the right, or whatever, because we are doing them wrong and it would be unfair to do so. I agree it's not right for us to do this to them. But with this debate today and by defending some things we want or reluctantly push them into this part. So I think the previous government has found a model for how to do this. The current government has slightly reversed this model, has not introduced it into the collective agreement system, because it is not good with the law to interfere with the collective agreement, but it changes the basic law, which is the substance of the National Assembly, and is in fact both options. One which is now only written in a collective contract for the public sector, and the other which has already been in force, should also apply to the amendment of the law, not only to the adoption, because this is still the case, as far as I know, and this provision has never been denied. So, paragraph 42, if we don't do anything and if we don't take it, it's still valid, and the government can cancel the collective agreement, come up with a new one and use this quorum. Now we're only putting both options into marriage. Two options mean that the unions will have the opportunity and will have, not as a power, but a bargain. I am sad, as I said at the outset, that the government is even more reckless, but they are probably macro-economicists, they are financiers, and some have found that every million that we give to this, while not lowering the standards already achieved, we do not lower it, we bear it for some time, as we have already endured it. For some, we've already reduced wages for one wage group. That's right. That's the pay-per-view group where it was the easiest. These are some officials, where we have already reduced wages for one wage class and a good 4%, and also stopped all progress and all these things. If we look at our pay envelopes, you see how much there is to be, and none of us disagrees that it would be necessary, and it's the same. It will be much easier to survive this crisis with our revenues than someone who is also poorly paid in the public sector. It is not true, it is not true that the public sector is well paid. Average jobs, averages are also poorly paid. The salary scale, I think, is the seventh or eighth salary class that reaches the minimum wage today. What about the others? Or 12, I'm fixing. What about the others? So it means that we have one part of the wage classes that are useless, because if we're going to put someone in the first or second wage class, we can't give them that salary anyway, we have to give them the minimum wage bill, which means that it came automatically. And these workers, who are also in the public sector with the minimum wage laid down by the law, are also huge, as is the case in the real sector, here too. The only advantage of this public sector is that, as a rule, every month at the beginning of the month, it is the only advantage where they are paid directly. However, we have part of the public sector, which also has a large part of its income to earn for wages on the market and also those dealing with all the problems that they are. Today, the National Assembly must only decide whether, because of the public financial situation, because of the crisis it is, and because of the fact that there is a way out, it will bring this coordination where it is due, and we have listened to the Minister today, where he says that only one part still needs to be harmonised, that no one is in such great imbalances as it was at the start of the pay reform. Whether it makes sense to postpone it to 2012, 2013 is what we are deciding today. Why? Because they couldn't agree that it would make sense. This was agreed with one part of the public servants, but not with one part. because we have such a collective agreement and because we want to respect the agreement itself, as it is, we have to change the basic law. This does not change the collective agreement itself, but changes the law and adds an annex that will be valid, which will be an integral part of the collective agreement. Because, as far as I can remember this collective agreement from when I worked in the public sector, Annexes are an integral part of this collective agreement, including tariff work and all things. So, please, we are not going to solve any other things today than just whether the government should be preparing the budget, which, according to the calculations, will, after all these things, sustain 2011 and 2012 to the extent that it is planned. This volume will also increase absolutely due to this inertia. Also because the salary growth will be slightly higher because it is forgiven, because the wages remain because the average rises regardless of whether the worker is in the envelope or we all see nothing. When we look at statistics, we find that it has grown by 2%, but in fact, the payrolls are the same from month to month. Statistics and methods of calculation bring what they are. So please, if possible and I will, of course, as has been said, not with a heavy heart, but with responsibility, with the desire that, of course, people will understand this decision and will not seek a solution on the street on 27 or 28 September, because that is not the solution, because nothing will change. Because demonstrations and all these things will not bring new money, but they will cause new costs, yes, and, of course, it will probably cost much more or no one can calculate as much as it could possibly make this harmonisation as easy as it is. As far as I can tell, of course, there are still some small compromises, small things, that perhaps only the dynamics themselves, even with some thirty or thirty-two coordination, will not be delayed. Because this shows some kind of goodwill and willingness and trust in some dialogue. Is it dialogue or not? Yes, it is. If there was no dialogue, we probably wouldn't be sitting here today. But it is true that the time for dialogue has run out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u86	Thank you. The Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u87	Just so that I don't really get the impression after Mr Visiak's debate, I think he's repeated twice that he's missing some reforms, some more effective interventions to modernise the public sector, so we're only dealing with wages that we're not dealing with because there's no social dialogue. It is not true, Mr. Vizjak, that we are not dealing with reforms. The problem is that all reforms mean changes, but people don't like them very much. Public servants, too. And modernisation in the public sector means, of course, change, it is best to work on the established procedures, but they are always in the public interest, and every employee will say that without his job he cannot carry out some processes. You were a minister yourself, you know how hard it is to make a move, yet to report that we're not doing it is unjustifiable. The new agencies are not new, even by the number of employees. At least the ones we are setting up in the government are carefully weighed in terms of public financial implications. All except for the airport, if you want to, where we are late for implementing the European Directive since 2004, you know that this is where they require an independent agency. The Public Procurement Agency means centralising the services of existing ministries, especially ours and others, in order to achieve information in this area, because we are also late, and everything should have worked in 2010, but since 2005 there has been no step in this direction since we signed the Manchester Declaration. I am not reading this to anyone, but the fact is that this agency does not have any additional financial implications and it is the centralisation of support services. The public fund will be in September, for real estate management – you know for yourself that all these renting services are now fragmented across all ministries. We're gonna centralize this now. You know what kind of political effort it takes to convince employees to implement more professionally in one place the solutions that will be endorsed by the National Assembly and, of course, by the Government at each budget. It's an extremely large movement. There was always talk of this urgent centralization, and now the marriage will be on the table. I hope you support him. The staff aren't looking forward to it. When these support services are centralised – and this is happening – we announced fewer ministries in 2012, which means fewer public servants. However, the ministries will be strengthened in those tasks, and Mr Vizjak, who is now in short supply, this is mainly the preparation of policies, then an analysis of the effects of these regulations – because today after 10 years we find that something is not working, and we still do not know how to respond quickly and change these rules, because there are no services to monitor how the rules work in practice – and then enhanced supervision. These services will allow more modern public administrations with strengthened systems if you want. The centralisation of support services will also take place at the primary level. That was a speech during your term of office. Now the crisis forces us to centralise all the services that are supportive, not only in administrative units, even in other state exposures at the first stage, in one place, so that it will be cheaper to make the practice more uniform, as everyone is doing exactly the same rules of this game. That's what we're forced to do, and that's what we're doing. You can't say we're not working. Otherwise, not to support our laws because you say it is something new, but despite all the explanations, of course you say that because this is the proposal of the current government, it is not right. The Law on Non-economic Public Services is in public debate for two months. I ask you very much – since 1991 no one has touched these public institutions – study it, comment. We introduced him to the union. All 29, except for one union, this is Fides, have in one voice announced that it was a disaster, a privatisation, and that's far from it. What I'm saying is, you yourself know as a minister that all the changes run into resistance. If you support us in reform, I would expect that not only by words, even when you have to press the key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Visjak responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u89	I'd be very happy if your words became meat. You have mentioned here a whole range of your efforts that will result in some modernisation of the public sector. And I ask you: how many public servants will be less the result of your modernisation? What's he gonna be like? That's the first question. How much less percentage, and what public sector activities? Will it be in education, or will it be in preschool education, or will it be in health care, or where will it be, and how much? This is the first thing I'm asking you, specifically, if you have a concept that you say you will be implementing in 2012. First question and please give a concrete answer. Another question, and please have a concrete answer. You said the number of ministries would be rationalised as of 2012. What ministries are going to unite into what? How many ministries are there? So, give me the structure of the government, then on your proposal. I don't know these proposals. How am I supposed to support something if I don't know, because you're probably just going to introduce them to me right now? I ask you, how many per cent of gross domestic product will the public sector's costs be today? Smaller, bigger? How much smaller? You should probably be. And of course, that's the third question. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u90	There's no replica to the replica. Madam Minister, you'll be able to come forward when the next one speaks. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Yes, I am happy to listen to all the coalition Members, although we are only speaking from the SD, and I am also happy to listen to them, but because at every step of the way I find something strange or wrong, it may be a mistake, I must also react to the Minister. The secretary says back it up with a yes. In this National Assembly, I have repeatedly put pressure on the protagonists. But the situation is that you have to bring something to the table so you can press for it. You know, until you get to the table a lawyer's law made by one lobby a lawyer, a notary law that makes that one, and a bankruptcy law that makes that lobby, yes, there I won't press for it, because these aren't reform laws, because these are laws to create lobbying and enrich those who brought you into power. Well, my voice won't be there. That's one. Look, talking about reform is also like this, I make it clear to every minister, I've told you many times that you're a good minister. Last year, the interior minister here somehow told me about this, I'm preparing for reform. After the new year said Secretary of State Klemenčič, today the head of the anti-corruption commission, will no longer be the police as it was, about a thousand people will be moved from offices to the road to work on the road. I was the first to say, "Minister, I'll congratulate you." Now, a month's worth of bear with my question, and I think it's got a terrible problem because that machine went up, and down here, it went down. It's a reform, but it's true. Otherwise, perhaps a little response to Mr. Frange. I'm not gonna say it, like I said at the New York mayor's because I'm allowing the possibility that you're wrong. I really allow the possibility that you've made a mistake. 800 million euros, yes. If I'm right in my memory, it was at last year's rebalancing or this year's, which is irrelevant. We have prepared such an amendment. We called it a mega amendment because of its size because it was on 30 pages and it was taken by the government. Approximately as much as you said, I allow this amount to be accurate, but not on wages. We all know you can't take that on your salary until you change the law. But he did carry on the other costs of the state administration. That was the suggestion. I remember precisely the debate of the President of the Slovenian People's Party, who said at the time: "Look, accept this now, you will come to the second balance with the same or worse amendment." That's exactly what happened. Today's investments and everything else is deleted. I believe there are more than 800 million euros. I've got to fix you. Don't hold on to you lowering your wages there. We are well aware that by changing the law, you cannot lower your salary. I have to fix you here. That doesn't hold. Of course, something has to be said. Let's defend the country so we don't come to Greece. Yes, we'll help you. There's no problem. Public sector reform, yes, we will support it if it takes the form of laws and so on. But these things need to be brought to the table. Then why are we up against it? We're against this because what I'm saying to Mr Chappich, but it's important to say this, look, because we're actually talking about the same things. We all say the same thing, actually. But the problem I have with the opposition is where? The problem is where you claim that in 2006 the government did the same to overstep a collective agreement with some law. The author, the carrier, the contractor of that collective agreement was Dr. Virant, and you weren't here when I quoted him. Dr. Virant tells you: "Yes, but we have concluded collective agreements with the agreement of virtually all unions." That's the big difference. If so far there have been 15 out of 29 unions, at most 40, you suggest 7 out of 29, at most 40. That's the problem. So the problem is that you don't want to, what you both say is that something has to be done to avoid coming to Greece, of course, you get help right away because it has to be done. None of us want Greece, but get in front of the people and tell them that. Do not call them to social dialogue, where, as I metaphorically say, you kill them first in the form of social dialogue and then you call them to dialogue. You can't communicate with the dead, at least I don't know this case. It's not working. You can't invite them today and now you're adopting a law that says 7 out of 29 at 40% is representativeness, so put it on such a low limit. Since you already have those signatures in your pocket, then you say, come negotiate. Yeah, because unionists also see them as crazy. That's the problem. But I still support what I said to get in front of people and tell them, "Not only are we going to freeze, we're going to lower your wages, because you're going to have to do this, there's no way out." And don't be beautiful because you can't, we can't, either, I don't know if we know anything better about this when the state cash register is empty. Tell them, "No way. It's not for coordination, it's not for the same wage growth, but we're gonna have to go down if we have to." But tell them that directly. They'll blame you less than they'll blame you for. Seven out of twenty-nine is a 40 percent condition. Yeah, well, it's not a majority, is it? That's what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Chappich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak named me in connection with Dr. Virant's statement. I'm sorry that Dr. Virant didn't get the voter confidence and he could sit next to Parliament, but the voters have already made up their minds and so is. Why, and I would ask him, and now I ask you, Why was a change of law necessary? So that she could change the quorum, but if all the unions supported it?Oh, my God! So there were more than 40% of them, and if there were more than 40% of them, then why did it have to be changed to make more than half the union headquarters? I really don't get it, but if it was that uniform. It's just as if now we say when we change the law and everyone will sign tomorrow if everyone agrees. That would be the naked transfer of the government and all those who would say that. Perhaps when the law was amended, they came to this because they found that it made sense or that it was necessary or that they should remain in dialogue and negotiations. And that's true, but I'm talking and I'm asking why it was necessary. It's fraud and deception. This is, of course, a delusion when we say, "Let's change the law, and now everybody's up for it. It would be the same if the minister said tomorrow when they signed the annex – they were all in favour. In fact, there is nothing left if we want to settle matters, because we also have a legal option and we will find a solution, even if you do not approach the law. This is, of course, a solution and a diversion that was triggered at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Franzege, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u95	So we are invited to tell people what the situation is. Mr Gorenak, in 2008 we won the elections by taking a picture of both bad times because we knew how to read the economists' forecasts, because we could read what was going on in the United States, and we knew that this great wave that was being produced there would also come to us. This was at the same time a time when the then government changed and still in Slovenia during the pre-election campaign in 2008 took pictures of a condition that we know today that Slovenia is not present today, and unfortunately it was not then. Look what Europe is doing today. I agree. In many European countries, including Germany, where we want to follow suit again also because it was able to capture an extremely fast pace of exit from the crisis, the wages and rights of public servants were significantly deeper and significantly more painful. I think it is right that we make changes gradually, in conviction and in good faith, that we will not have to cut down deeper. However, the modernisation of the public sector is already taking place in cities and in part. The agencies mentioned earlier how many agencies this government has set up – the opposition likes to mention these figures and shows this government majority: see them, set up agencies, accumulate jobs, accumulate costs. But no, these agencies are a step towards better organising available staff in the public sector, better linking them and achieving better results with the neutral financial impact you will once again challenge. This is the modernisation of the public sector. But it's true that it's happening more partially than I'd like. A city in those areas where the government identifies that we have come into some acute situations where a greater change is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u96	Madam Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u97	I would only say the following to Mr Visiak, who directly addressed the questions and will certainly want the answer. You're moving, Mr. Visac. The Public Procurement Agency Act had at least €10 million in procurement procedures in its assessment of public savings due to more optimal organisation and common public procurement with electronic support for savings estimated at least €10 million. By asking you kindly, when we have all the laws you will have on the table in the future, we will tell each of you how much savings there will be to read this carefully and to centralise the support services, in centralising the ministries, I will not tell you now, because in 2012 it will be very carefully thought out. But the condition is that the support services that are now in all ministries for the same tasks, for the construction of premises, for the rental of premises, for public procurement and so on, we centralise. Then we'll combine things to make sense. However, we will not reduce the number of employees directly managing services to people. Not because we don't want to lower this standard. But there is a lot of free running, and this is mainly for these support services, where everything calls after optimization. Two million of us are with 18 ministries. Each has its own secretariat, its own procurement services, all its own, and this is a demanding political process. His employees are resisting him, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u98	Mr. Vizjak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u99	Of course, Your Honor, it's nice, but it's not enough. If you intend to save 10 million euros, this is how you estimate in the field of public procurement, I must remind you that your government has raised 1.1 billion euros in deficits in the first half of this year. 1.1 billion euros. It is based on the Budget Implementation Report. I ask you again: How will you deal with this problem in the area of which you are responsible? In the field of public sector. I asked you: How will you rationalise the public sector, how many people will be less in two years or in three or four years' time in the public sector? That was the first question, I repeat. I'm gonna run out of time, because I probably won't have the chance to set it up three times. I asked you because you announced a reduction in the number of ministries, which and how many ministries will follow your announcements in 2012? You must have this idea. How much will public sector costs in gross domestic product in 2012 after or after your reform, the modernisation of the public sector will expire and come to an end? If we had the answers to these questions and measures to achieve these objectives, we could probably also believe that these short-term measures that you are proposing in terms of freezing are, I don't know, one of the stones on the way to this mosaic and reach this goal. It's small, but it's important and necessary. You don't have these answers, we don't believe you because you've been promising for two years what you're going to do, but we're sinking deeper and deeper as far as public finances are concerned. I will not show you again those graphs that we have repeatedly shown in this House are the figures of the Statistical Office, they must be trusted and not some kind of fiction. According to all these indicators, Slovenia is, of course, on the path of the Greek script and instead of proposing some comprehensive measures on the one hand to promote economic activity and, on the other hand, to save in the public sector, you are actually having some unrest in relation to trade unions, to civil society, that we are not talking about opposition at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u100	Mr. Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At the outset, perhaps a word is possible, since it has been a long time since we have heard the amendment proposal, where I would particularly agree with those who may say that it is not the time for such a change. But when we talk about what this change is, it is necessary to know that it is a systemic change, where the criteria are defined by the same criteria for change or for the adoption of a collective agreement, which is not the wrong idea after all. Perhaps, at this point, it is a little different, for the purpose of what we are doing here today in the National Assembly is another. This is a wage freeze in the public sector. Many times, as we have seen in the National Assembly, are the words of everything else that this government has done for this country in the last two years. I think you're either overestimating us at this point or you're just being unfair. Because if everything you've said today comes together on the shoulders of this government and that Slovenia will come to terms with us to experience a Greek script, which you've been predicting for one year, that the worst thing is happening in Slovenia, if we compare Europe, then I think that people could see that these are already overblown estimates and that it is far from the reality in which we are living today. I often like to hear the opposition's arguments. There's a lot of people who like them. Of course I'd be happy to support them. But I do hope to say that if we were in the same position or if we had scissors and canvas in your hands, so that we would now lead the Government of you, I do not believe that we would be dealing with all these matters that you are promoting here today, and not just today, for two years now. Not to mention at all that you have had the opportunity to reform a lot and that today you are calling on this Government to make strong reforms in many areas, what needs to be done. But you know for yourself that on the nose, especially in two years, it just doesn't work. We have heard today that this government is avoiding responsibility. There have also been a lot of words today about thinking that there's a lot of senseless people in the opposition, in the unions, and I don't know what it is. That's not true. I think that much effort has been made in the social dialogue, which you claim to have died today, that it is no longer. I think it's different. I think he's still here. I think that there is still a lot of energy to be invested in the future, that it will strengthen and that there will be some confidence on both sides that we can go into change together. Now, of course, it must be said that today we are talking about reducing or freezing wages in the public sector. You'd go even further. You have spoken here today about forgiveness, but it is necessary to modernise the public sector. But you yourself have proved that with moves and reforms to the neck, such as Virant's reform, where, with the consent of the vast majority of unions – only a little, this is important – where, with the consent of the vast majority of trade unions, this was accepted, and then problems arose because things were on the nose. We must not afford this if we do not want further mistrust among the social partners. Of course, something must also be said that there will not be much talk about the public sector as if it were something bad. The public sector, the agreement on the elimination of wage imbalances has already been adopted in the past. It was promised that the wages would go up, but they didn't. Many times things have moved forward. It was therefore high expectations that what was promised to the public sector would only happen once. So the expectations are high. But we have come in a period of crisis where it is simply impossible to do so. If anyone thinks that this is a hobby of this government or a coalition member, that he wants to support something that takes some gain to people in Slovenia, then he is wrong. This is not some desire or intention to anger someone on purpose or a priority project, so to do everything in Slovenia to make people's lives worse. On the contrary. Before, there was a talk about what the government did good, just listening to the Croats, who no longer know what. You're guilty. That's not true. If there were no measures taken and measures taken and being prepared, the situation in Slovenia would be even worse. Unfortunately, this is difficult to admit. Of course, because you come from the position of the opposition, when it comes to attacking, demolishing and everything at all costs. This is simply not fair, especially if we look at the latest results. If you were in the government, you'd like to be very proud of the growth of 2.2%. Speaking of positive economic growth, GDP and so on. You'd be bragging about it, too. Why not after a year and a half that this happened in Slovenia? Maybe that's just what the government had in mind. Maybe. It's not just about the other side when we were talking, that's how you laughed at us when we talked about how much depends on foreign markets. But sometimes in a different time. It is important to be aware of the many times that we hear a lot of counsel here. I am sorry that you have not had the opportunity to reform all those things in the country that you think today would be good to do and to show the results of your work. They didn't, unfortunately. In these circumstances it's harder to act, that's a fact. Maybe it's not going to change things as much as anyone would want. To tell you the truth, it is not a great pleasure to see dialogue between the government and the unions today. It's a thing that maybe makes a lot of people feel bad. I'm sorry it didn't come to a final agreement. That is why such decisions that we make today are difficult. It is not easy to accept the freezing of wages, even for those who certainly try. The public sector is part of this society, which we certainly need. lynching everything in the public sector, as they say about doctors, judges, lawyers. That's what we like to do when we arrange for someone, some status in the National Assembly, we only set up a race against one group of people. This is always happening in this National Assembly. No wonder politics is at the same level as it is. Ambassadors and Members, we have a dog rating because we don't know anything nice to say and take anyone to the dam. I would like to see changes to the future of consensus. This is a matter of both partners, both governments and, of course, trade unions, especially their negotiators. In the future, when we sit in this House, there will certainly be reforms, changes that are much more difficult. At the time, at least I hope that we will have some consensus that we will be able to make better decisions about these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u102	Anybody else want to discuss this? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Of course it's a consensus thing, but not with a gun to the union's head. That's one. Virant's reform was praised here today by the Prime Minister. Mr. Levanic, please comply with him. In 2008, Virant's reform was praised by the Prime Minister as the outcome of the reform and it would be good to consult with them. It is necessary to say this to conclude, yes, of course, my dears, you have all talked about the social consensus, the social dialogue, how you will run the government. More in explanation of voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Levanic, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u105	Very briefly. Obviously we don't understand each other and we won't be for a long time. No one said that the experiment wasn't commendable, what it was trying to do. All I wanted to say at the time of the adoption of the reform and later on was that, despite the union's consensus, there were major problems. Troubles we didn't expect. Then it became clear that perhaps the vast majority of people would not support it if they knew what the consequences would be. My call went only in the direction that we should not change things on the nose overnight about big ideas, reforms, and I don't know what we were talking about when we talked about the public sector, modernisation and so on. I agree. It's about time this was settled. It's not until today, but I think it's time for this to be settled in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u106	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Articles 1 and 2? I guess not. I conclude the debate on the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2. During the session you received another amendment to the amended bill, namely the amendment of the SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS coalition groups. The amendment is editorial in nature and corrects the reference to the relevant paragraphs in Article 42(1). Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are closing the debate on the amendments and moving on to a decision on the amendments. We will first vote on the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2. Excuse me. To Article 1, I remind you, if this amendment is not adopted, then the amendment to Article 2 is irrelevant. I also warn you about your voting devices. One moment, please. Can I help you, Mr. Gorenak? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I led the debate on the amendment to the 1st article of the coalition groups. Would you like to discuss this? The debate was closed and the explanation of vote could be given. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. What we are trying to do with our amendment and what the coalition does not allow with its amendment is, in particular, that it has overtaken social dialogue. Social dialogue is one of the elements that has led the current coalition, in particular the ruling party, to take power. Even at the time of the electoral campaign, the Prime Minister said that difficult times were coming and that social dialogue would be needed. It is therefore right that there is a party in power who has good hearing for social dialogue, and that is us, that is, the SDS. I explain my voice, yes. Of course, that's what's so painful that you don't take that into account today. Today, after two years, you correct the formula, which was called 15 unions of 29 at 40%, to 7 unions of 29 at 40%. That's problematic. In 2006 it was the second case, and 25 trade unions since 27 signed the consequences of that law in 2006. So we're clear, I got that information, too. It would be right, and once again it should also be said about listening and watching, no one opposes financial restrictions, not even freezing, and so on, but, coalition, do it in a transparent way, so go ahead and tell them, "There is no money, there is nothing to be paid for, so we will do it." I'm sure people will understand. I believe you will receive support from the opposition as well. But what you're doing is painting your eyes, because 7 of the 29 unions you've already signed in your pocket, you already have, you're calling it a majority, 40%. It's mean to those people, and it's ugly to those unions, which I called "the murder of social dialogue" who were not prepared to sign this, and you referred to social dialogue because you are a "social" democracy. You paint people. Thank you very much. We will vote for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-07-SDZ5-Izredna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? We decide and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 25, against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I therefore note that the amendment has not been adopted. As this amendment to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has become irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment of the SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS coalition groups to Article 1. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, for 42, for 16. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. So we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 41, for 22. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Matthew Lahovnik, and the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Mr Anton Rope, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, and Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the termination of the function and the appointment of the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. Dr. Matthew Lahovnik's emissary is on 19. Seven. 2010 has informed the National Assembly of its resignation. You have received a statement of resignation. I note that, as of today, under Article 9 of the Law on Members, his term of office has ceased. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the Assembly, which candidate has become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the National Assembly. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to thank my esteemed colleague very much for my work so far and to wish him all the best in the future! The Magnificent Messenger. Anton Rop is 17. 8. 2010 has informed the National Assembly of its resignation. You've accepted a statement of resignation. I note that, as of today, under Article 9 of the Law on Members, his term of office has ceased. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the Assembly, which candidate has become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report to the Assembly on its findings. Allow me once again, on behalf of all of us, to thank my respected colleague very much for my work so far and to wish him success in the future! We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Zares Group for consideration by the Assembly. In doing so, I would like to point out that the decision will be adopted if it is voted on by the majority of the Members of the Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the termination of the post and the appointment of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The draft decision was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision whereby the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy ceases to act as Chairman of mags. Anton Rop, the Group of Social Democrats. The President is Mr Bogdan Chapič of the same delegation. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Congratulations to your fellow Member. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good night. The meeting was closed on 7 September 2010 at 21.34 p.m.
