ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, valued citizens and citizens. Allow me to remind you, before today's 15th ordinary session of the National Assembly, that on Monday, 29 March, it will be exactly 20 years from the adoption of the Act on the Anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. By the adoption of this law, the current Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, prior to its independence, appointed the seventh kitica of Prešeren's song Zdravljica for the text of the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, and the choir song of the composer and the musical teacher Stank Premrl for the melody. The healer, who was born during the revolutionary period of the spring of the nations and the strengthened awakening of the national consciousness in 1844, reflects the spirit of the present time. Its basic message is that all nations have the right to freedom and independence and that freedom, coexistence, unity and reconciliation are prerequisites for freedom. At the same time, it refers to all nations with its positive ideas and thus goes beyond only the Slovenian national framework. These never survive the ideas of friendly coexistence, equality and freedom came back to life in the 1980s. Gradually, they have become fundamental social values and central political objectives, in particular the Eastern European countries. Respectable. In the nation and among its citizens, the national anthem should awaken and strengthen the sense of identity, of belonging to the State, while at the same time strengthening interrelationship and patriotism. Now I invite you to listen to the Slovenian anthem in the performance of Parliament dixie band and vocalist Brede Senčar. Please. [[...]] [[An anthem.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members. France Tomšič, one of the central figures, could even say iconic personalities in the process of democratisation, political and trade union movements in the second half of the 1980s, which have expired into the democratic transition and the independence of Slovenia. He was the initiator and organiser of the famous 1987 Lithostrom strike, which was not limited to the traditional trade union requirements, but also highlighted the strong political objectives after the pluralisation of the political and economic system. In the context of the sentence, he set up an initiative to establish a Social Democratic Party, which was also established as a Social Democratic Union in 1989, the predecessor of the current Slovenian Democratic Party. He was also her first president. After 1090, he was one of the main initiators of the pluralisation of the union movement and the initiator of the establishment of the Independent Union, and he became its first president. From 1990 to 1992, France Tomšič was a member or delegate to the Social Political Assembly in the first democratically elected assembly and contributed significantly to the creation of a new country based on respect for human rights, the social market economy and the democratic political system. In 1992 he was also a candidate for the President of the Republic. At the height of political power, he withdrew from active politics. His greatest feature was an open and direct speech with which he quickly found contact with people. He wasn't around, so it wasn't always easy for him. We must be grateful to him for his contribution to Slovenian democracy. I beg for a minute of silence in his memory. [[One minute of silence.]] Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am about to begin the continuation of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Bogdan Barovich, Milenko Ziherl, Marijan Pojbič, Roberto Battelli, Anton Kolarič, mag. Branko Grimes and Matjaž Zanoškar. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 18. Agenda - This is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity. The State Council is at the 15th Extraordinary Session, 12. 3. 2010 demanded that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Bogomir the Grandchild to explain the Council's request. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Council of State shall be held at its 15th extraordinary session on 12. 3. Upon consideration of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activities, it adopted a request for the National Assembly to decide again on the law. Article 8(5), which provides for the active control of the Slovenian language as a condition for carrying out detective activities and obtaining and issuing work licences, is deleted from the Law. The Council of State opposes the deletion of this point. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 11 that the official language in the Republic of Slovenia is Slovenian. By entering the European Union, Slovenia has become one of the official languages of the European Union, and the use of the mother tongue is also ensured by the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. Also, detective activity in the wider international space in Slovenia is exemplaryly regulated. Therefore, the competent Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also considered that the deletion of this provision could mean that the active knowledge of the Slovenian language is not necessary in carrying out the detective activity or that it can operate in any foreign language, contrary to Article 2 of the Consumer Protection Act, which requires the consumer to operate in the Slovenian language. In areas where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously, as well as in the language of the national community. Since the adoption process did not take into account the warnings of the Council of State or the Legal and Legislative Service, we propose not to reconfirm the law, but to take into account our views and views of the Legislative and Legal Service in further procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered this law at its 30th emergency meeting on 23 March 2010. We have decided on the request of the Council of State to reconsider this law. The Act was adopted at its 14th session on 8 March. Members and members of the Committee had at their disposal the request of the State Council of 12 March 2010, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service - 16 March 2010 and the opinion of the Government - 23 March 2010. The representative of the Council of State, Mr Vnučec, stated in a supplementary explanation of the request of the Council of State that the Council had actually opposed this Article 2 or the deletion of Article 8 of the Law on Detective Activity, which referred to the knowledge of the Slovenian language as a condition for carrying out a detective activity. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Mrs Špela Maček Gustin, has actually said what she said before when we first considered this law, and has also highlighted it as a problematic provision, which is also referred to by the State Council. It also considered that this matter was not properly regulated. In the context of the presentation of a written opinion by the Government on the request of the State Council, Mrs Katarina Kresal, and the Director-General, Dr Žagar, said that the Government insists on the adoption of the legal amendment, as it is the fundamental objective of aligning it with the Internal Market Services Directive. In the debate, we remained on various coasts, coalition and opposition Members, and the vote showed that the law was confirmed by nine votes in favour and five against. We therefore adopted an opinion: "The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity is appropriate. Thank you very much."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the explanatory act. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u7	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The new law on detective activities is subject to coordination with the legal order of the European Union, namely the Directive on services in the internal market. This also requires coordination in the field of detective activity. The basic objectives or requirements of the Directive are that the system of free provision of services in the internal market must not be discriminatory. It must be clear, unequivocal, publicly published, proportionate, objective and transparent. The restrictions relating to nationality, residence or establishment of an undertaking must be completely excluded and the remaining restrictions are permissible only if they are necessary and relate to public interest. Public interest, as recognised by the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, includes restrictions on the grounds of public order, public health, public safety, environmental protection, consumer protection and social policy objectives. The Council of State considers that the amendment to Article 8 of the Act, which deletes a provision which also establishes active knowledge of Slovenian language as a condition for carrying out detective activities, does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. The Government considers that the explicit requirement for active knowledge of Slovenian as a condition for carrying out detective activities is not proportionate to the objectives of the Internal Market Services Directive. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities also shows that there is no need for systematic testing of language testing since other measures are provided to ensure the protection of individuals, consumers and the proper implementation of legislation. The Constitution already stipulates that the official languages in Slovenia, Slovenian and Italian and Hungarian are in the minority area. The Law on State Administration provides that the official language is in the administration of Slovenia. The company must operate in the Slovenian language, in areas where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live autonomously, as well as in the language of the national community, and this is provided for by the Consumer Protection Act. Finally, the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian also provides that knowledge of Slovenian is necessary for work in national authorities and bodies of local self-government and in the case of holders of public powers that decide on the rights or obligations and legal benefits of individuals or organisations. Legal persons of private law and natural persons who carry out a registered activity must also operate with customers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in Slovenian. In addition to the Slovenian language, foreign languages may be used when their business is also intended for foreigners. Among the documents referring to the demand for language skills, let me mention the code of conduct approved by the group of coordinators for a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, which recommends that the recognition of professional qualifications is not subject to linguistic knowledge, unless it is part of qualifications, for example logopedi. Only on a case-by-case basis should it be checked that the specific language knowledge is proportionate or that the language knowledge requirement is not systematically true. It follows from everything that the use of the Slovenian language as an official language is regulated and provided for in other regulations. Anyone who carries out a detective activity in Slovenia will, in one way or another, have to ensure the operation of the Slovenian language by representatives of state authorities or public authorities. However, the active knowledge of the Slovenian language cannot be a condition for the provision of detective services, as for example it does not apply to the Director of the company or to the independent entrepreneur who performs an activity. The Government therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt a new law on detective activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Nice greeting and good morning to you all. Members of the DeSUS, we have unanimously supported the amendment of the law on detective activity, which aims to bring the internal legal order into line with European law at the previous meeting of the National Assembly and this is how we will do it this time. We have made such a decision because we do not see any disproportionateity in eliminating this condition. Furthermore, maintaining the condition of Slovenian language management in such activities could also constitute discrimination against service providers in relation to the principle of free competition. We therefore doubt that the maintenance of the requirement or condition of the control of the Slovenian language in carrying out a detective activity in the case of proceedings before European institutions would be justified. The considerations of the State Council have also been expressed during the process of receiving the novel. Furthermore, discussions have been held in this regard and proposals have been tabled for a different resolution of issues that have not been supported in our Group of Members. The State Council's request for re-decision on the law is due to the view that the amendment of the law in the work where the condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language regarding the acquisition of a licence and the exercise of a detective activity alone is not compatible with the Constitution. Of course, this is not the opinion of the DeSUS Group. The official languages declared as such in our Constitution oblige the state authorities to operate in three languages, i.e., Slovenian and possibly Hungarian or Italian, which means that the parties to the procedure are subsequently linked to the use of the Slovenian language. In spite of the absence of a new condition for active Slovenian knowledge, the detective will still have to operate directly or with the assistance of translators in the proceedings before the state authorities. In the official language of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia regarding communication with customers as users of the detective activity service, in our legal order, there are key measures within the framework of the individual rules that ensure the protection of individuals and the proper implementation of legislation relating to the use of the Slovenian language. Therefore, we believe that despite the absence of the conditions for active knowledge of Slovenian in detective activities, it is still necessary to ensure that recipients of services receive business or communication with a foreign detective in the Slovenian language, because competition on the market requires service providers to adapt to customer requirements, needs and expectations. In this case, if the Slovenian customer is a Slovenian citizen, the adjustment will go in the direction of the use of the Slovenian language, either by teaching Slovenian or by providing communication in the Slovenian language through interpreters or translators. It is also clear that communication with a customer is easier to carry out in a language that is understood and used by itself, so it will be easier for consumers who do not speak the Slovenian language to hire a detective who speaks or masters a foreign language. As a concrete and current example, we find ourselves living in English families, for example. Last but not least, it is not a medical activity or any other activity where the compulsory knowledge and use of the Slovenian language would be justified in the public interest and in terms of the legal security of our citizens. As has already been said in the introduction, the DeSUS Members will once again support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u11	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary. The new law on detective activities is primarily in the procedure for compliance with the acquis of the European Union, namely the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market adopted on 12 December 2006 and regulates the free provision of services in the internal market of the European Union. With this change, we open up Slovenian premises for the operations of foreign detectives, i.e. from the European Union and the Swiss Confederation. The proposed amendment of the law confers public authority on the Detective Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad. At the same time, the amendment removes the condition of citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia for obtaining a licence or carrying out detective duties and in the same article deletes the condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language in carrying out a detective activity. We do not support the new law on detective activity in the Slovenian National Party Group. Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides clearly and unequivocally that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. Despite the fact that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and is a free movement of labour one of its fundamental freedoms, we in the Slovenian National Party's Group feel that the conditions of active knowledge of Slovenian language in carrying out detective activities in the law under consideration should be maintained. In the law, a certain condition of Slovenian knowledge in carrying out a detective activity does not in any way restrict the exercise of that activity to other nationals of the Member States of the European Union and of the Swiss Confederation, since each Member State of the European Union may freely lay down the conditions for carrying out that activity in its territory. It is only necessary to respect the principle of equality so that the same conditions apply to both domestic and foreign citizens. We will not support the new law on detective activity in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. In doing so, we would like to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to pay greater attention to the preservation of the national language, which is undoubtedly the foundation of every nation and country, including Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, you are very welcome. We support the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity in the Liberal Democrats. It is a matter of complying with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services and the internal market. The basic objective of this Directive is that the system must not be discriminatory, as this law of application. Detective activity is classified in accordance with the Directive in the category of regulated professions, so we must follow the fundamental principles of this Directive and if we insist on a condition for obtaining a licence, which has been enshrined in the law so far, that is the active knowledge of the Slovenian language, such a condition would be considered disproportionate and, as such, discriminatory. In doing so, I would mention the understanding of Article 11 of the Constitution that Slovenian is an official language. This is not to be understood by the fact that Slovenia is only a language for communication with state institutions, but is also a language in which an individual can turn and expect answers also to individuals of private law, not only with state institutions. In this context, we would like to point out that both the Consumer Protection Act and the Public Use Act speak or provide for business with customers in the Slovenian language. This amendment to the law on detective activity is in no way contrary to these two laws, because the foreign detective who will be active in Slovenia, either occasionally or in order to obtain a license, will have to operate in a language as required by these two laws. Thinking that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity is inadequate because it restricts the use of Slovenian so they do not have some serious basis, so we will once again support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia as well as of course in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u15	Respectable. Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The requirement of the Council of State after re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity does not seem sufficiently justified for the Group of Social Democrats. The National Council reopens the requirement for active knowledge of the Slovenian language for persons who will carry out detective activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The concern for the use of the Slovenian language in itself is positive, and there has been a broad debate on this subject on the Committee on Internal Policy, and the Ministry's representatives have once again presented arguments in which it is stressed that we should not insist on such restrictive conditions. As the Ministry affirms by this law, we do not interfere with other regulations such as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Public Use of Slovenian Act, the Law on the Procedure for Recognition of Professional Qualifications for Citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. All these regulations require and lay down basic rules on the public use of Slovenian as an official language in the Republic of Slovenia. Another important reason is respect for the principle of proportionality. Proportionality is also referred to in the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Community. Comparable or reciprocal arrangements must also be arranged in other countries where our detectives would work. The same is true in areas such as veterinary, real estate, geodetic activities. This law does not oblige foreign detectives or nationals of other members of the European Union or of the Swiss Confederation to obtain a licence in Slovenia and not to operate in Slovenian in business with official authorities. Let us hope that the practice will follow in the future, which unfortunately is not always the case. In spite of the opposition to the request of the Council of State, we join all the warnings that there is a need to give greater attention to language policy and to the use of our own language at home and in the institutions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The parliamentary group will not support the law, even as we did not support it at the outset. We do not see any reason for this law to be able to get our green light, although it must be said that it does only bring European legislation or European legal acts into our legal order, yet there is no reason to compare the use of the Slovenian language of any foreign director who sits in his office and does not use it in his current business - he reads some acts, files and so on. But here is just another question, someone will walk through Slovenian territory, perform tasks, perform tasks for our citizens, for foreign citizens, for anyone and he will not need to speak Slovenian. The law-law service has told its own, we Members have told our own, but still, I don't know what expression to use -- "quietly," one would say-- press a solution through which you know for yourself that it is contrary to the constitution, that it is contrary to the law, and you will probably have to be told by someone else, who is more competent to do so -- let's say, the Constitutional Court. There is no reason for us to work in this way in the National Assembly and that that fundamental thing has been fundamentally determined to use Slovenian language in the territory of Slovenia. Why? We are too small in this Europe, I will say, there are two million of us, and we want to leave this way, there is no need for it, the law does not have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u19	The Honorable President. Minister, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Members, we are indeed assessing the request of the Council of State for unfounded reasons, since we believe that the deletion of the fifth point of Article 8(1) of the Law on Detective Activity is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution provides in Article 11 that official languages in the Republic of Slovenia are Slovenian, Italian and Hungarian in minority areas. However, the official language means that the authorities of the state administration operate in these languages, which will also apply to all foreign detectives after the introduction of the novel. The amendment also states that the translation of documents into Slovenian is required to obtain a licence and the right to carry out the activities of foreign detectives. In addition, detectives who do not know the Slovenian language will have to operate in the Slovenian language directly or indirectly with the help of a translator or interpreter. In the Group of Members, we will truly support this proposal of law once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u21	Dear Mr. President! Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will once again support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity, as it does not deviate from the objectives and principles of the legislation in force and means continuing to practice with the introduction of the Directive on Services in the Internal Market. The law therefore removes the restriction that only Slovenian citizens can obtain a licence for carrying out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia. It also amends the provisions and removes certain obstacles to the provision of individual detective services to foreigners. According to the new Slovenian space, it will also be open to the operations of foreign detectives, according to the European Union and the Swiss Confederation. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group has already joined in the process of enacting the law with the warnings of the Commission of the National Council for State Procedure, which has expressed the idea of deleting the condition of the active knowledge of the Slovenian language in order to carry out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia, because this is not in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution, according to which the official language is Slovenian. We also agreed that Slovenian consumers have the right to communicate in their mother tongue. So, although we will support this law, we, of course, want or expect that in the future our institutions, even when we are adapting to some legislation, will pay more attention to language policy and to the use of their own Slovenian language at home and in the institutions of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. This is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2010 and 2011 under the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I will give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. You have before you the amendment of the Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for the period 2010 and 2011. The purpose of this law or these amendments to the law is to ensure that the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budget takes place with as little difficulty as possible and to pursue some of the additional objectives identified by the State in the framework of the exit strategy. The first major amendment to the law concerns the provision of dedicated resources for the construction and investment of railway infrastructure. In this way, by means of the law on the implementation of the budget, we coordinate the financing of railway infrastructure with the newly adopted law on the provision of earmarked funds for railway infrastructure. The key purpose of this arrangement is to provide as stable a resource as possible for financing investments, allowing for the execution of major investment projects on rail infrastructure and to ensure a consequent reduction in road loads and unauthorised air discharges. Another important change is payment deadlines. In the original text of the law on the implementation of the budget, we have reduced all payment deadlines for the country and reduced the municipalities to 30 days, and this amendment of the law also commands these deadlines for all indirect budgetary users. In this way, the Government foresees that we could make an important contribution to improving payment discipline. Of course, the financing of indirect budgetary users by the State and the municipalities will also have to change. The third amendment is to provide a legal basis for financing institutions that are in the role of implementing development international assistance. The resolution itself on international development assistance adopted by the National Assembly provides for these institutions and sets out their role. The Court of Auditors found in its audit report that there is no sufficient laundry basis for the financing of these institutions, so we are trying to remedy this deficiency by law in force. In the future, this topic will be addressed in the Law on International Development Assistance. And the last major change is the legal basis for the greater indebtedness of municipalities in cases where municipalities take over the infrastructure of former public companies and thus provide conditions for the implementation of the new international and Slovenian accounting standard, which eliminates funds in management. As they take over the infrastructure, debt must also be taken over. When these debts are taken over, they collide with the border laid down by the Law on the Financing of the Communities and are not contrary to the law, we provide that in these cases they may go beyond the limits laid down by the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Finally, let me say that an amendment has also been tabled with regard to the earmarking of the financing of railway infrastructure by providing investment maintenance funding from dedicated sources. The Government supports such a proposal to amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Parliamentary Group, I apologize. I'm getting ahead of myself today, yeah. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body - I give the floor to Bogdan Čepič to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall meet on the 19th urgent session of the 18th Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 3. 2010 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of 17. 3. 2010 which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and forwarded specific comments to 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the draft law. On the basis of the comments made above, the coalition SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS Group of the SD, on 17. 3. The amendments to Articles 1, 4, 6 and 7 of the legislative proposal were tabled in 2010. By 17. 3. The amendment to Article 1 and 4 of the legislative proposal was also tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Representatives from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly took part in the meeting of the Committee. In its opening remarks, the representatives of the Government briefly presented the objectives and solutions of the text submitted. Among the solutions put in place, it is first of all to highlight the establishment of new dedicated expenditure under the annual road duty or concession fee of Port Koper for the implementation of an investment in public railway infrastructure, or the modernisation of railway infrastructure, all within the framework of the objective of maximising the transport of goods from road to rail. At the same time, in the original text of the basic law, it has failed to determine the purchase from the sale of capital investments which have been collected for a number of years as a dedicated source of the budget under the law on the use of the funds derived from the purchases, on the basis of the law on the property transformation of the company. With a view to limiting payment non-discipline, the text also sets out payment deadlines as far as possible, both for indirect budget consumers, bound up for 30 days, and for those areas directly financed from the budgets. This introduces 30 days for payment deadlines for direct budgetary users, which at the same time means a uniform definition, since in practice so far different interpretations have been made. An important amendment also concerns the legal basis for financing certain types of institutions on the basis of a finding in the Court of Auditors’ audit that there is no appropriate legal basis for direct contracts with institutions based on government decrees with the status of private institutions established by the State and carried out tasks in the public interest. According to the Court of Auditors, financing of these institutions would be possible exclusively on the basis of calls for proposals, but at the same time they are involved in an international development aid scheme. In order to meet the requirements of the Court of Auditors, a provision is hereby introduced which allows those institutions to conclude direct contracts by providing that the funds enabling them to operate are already laid down in the 2010 and 2011 budgets. At the same time, the applicant notes that, as a result of the implementation of Slovenian accounting standards, the number 35, which no longer allows for the financial disclosure of assets in management, through the envisaged transfer of public infrastructure funds from the accounts of public undertakings to the business books of municipalities, is highly likely to exceed the maximum amount of possible local debt. This is due, in particular, to the fact that it is prudent to maintain public economic infrastructure in municipal ownership and that these are carried over by debts arising from its acquisition. The proposal lays down the legal basis for cases where the statutory scope of such a possible obligation is exceeded. In the context of the presentation of opinions, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further stressed that the amendments of coalition groups follow the warnings of the service, while a warning on the content of Article 1 of the legislative proposal exists. In a short discussion, which opened in the course of Article 1, Article 4 and Article 6 of the proposal, but which did in fact have a good impact on the government solutions presented. In the course of the preliminary examination of the 2010 and 2011 budget, it was found that the legal basis for its implementation did not allow the preparation of the newly planned programme budget and had already been announced several times and was therefore expected to intervene in the Public Finance Act. The Committee then adopted amendments to articles 1, 4, 6 and 7 of the legislative proposal by the coalition groups, the SDS Group's Committee of Amendments to Articles 1 and 4. In doing so, the Committee voted, pursuant to Rule 126 of its Rules of Procedure, on individual articles of the legislative proposal and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary proposal contained in the material is prepared at the proposal of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Now, indeed, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members is to be made. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In view of the smooth implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budgets, as well as the provision of legal bases, the present proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for those years should be considered and implemented. This is about facilitating the financing of institutions for the provision of services of general interest in the field of international cooperation. Unfortunately, our railway infrastructure is in such a state that quality service delivery is no longer ensured and there is a need to provide a permanent source of funding for investment in rail infrastructure. It is therefore an urgent need for the earmarked budget item not only as a defined source of funding but also as a result of the possible transfer of funds from one to another budget period. Finally, it is also a matter of providing payment discipline for all the budgetary entities concerned, including economic public infrastructure in the management of municipalities and associated ownership. And it is here that the legal basis for borrowing or investing in infrastructure should be laid down, as previously mentioned by the predecessor. The means for implementing this law are clearly provided in the State budget, from the inflows from environmental air pollution duties with CO2 emissions. Nevertheless, a few questions are being raised. The idea of finally investing in rail infrastructure and finally starting to speed up the movement of freight from road to rail is not disputed. But instead we did not discover warm water, because for example and basic guidelines we just need to look a little over the border, in neighbouring Austria or Switzerland, where they resolved these issues, and this very effectively, many years ago. However, it could be controversial to take the resources under the annual road charges, which lastly are paid by all car owners, and by Luke Koper’s concession fees. Although we have pointed out in the Slovenian National Party all these years the problem of road freight traffic, the constant damage caused by road infrastructure caused by foreign truckers in transit in recent years, however, no government has so far been able and determined to charge an appropriate compensation toll for such users of Slovenian roads. I therefore think of the appropriateness of the damage caused to roads and pollution, that I am not talking at all about the number of accidents, the resulting material damage and the loss of hundreds of lives, mainly Slovenes and Slovenians, because their lives cannot be compensated or replaced by any toll. I would also not discuss individual dictions and substantive explanations from a legal point of view in detail, I am not a lawyer, an expert, but I should also trust the drafters of the articles. Therefore, regardless of those concerns, we support the adoption of this law, irrespective of the concerns raised with regard to Article 1 of the Act in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to Madam Secretary and co-workers! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budgets, as these are changes relating to the establishment of a new dedicated revenue to make investments in public railway infrastructure that will allow for the modernisation of this important road. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have repeatedly stressed that railway infrastructure is vital in providing adequate transport infrastructure, with the fact that we have left this behind in recent years. In any case, we also have some substantive concerns within the Club of Members concerning the determination of this intended source, namely that it should be provided under the title of road charges and concessions of Luke Koper. On the other hand, they consider that investment in rail infrastructure is so important that it is essential to ensure stable and, above all, dedicated resources. We also agree with the proposed amendment to ZIP to set payment deadlines for indirect budgetary users, which, in our opinion, will help reduce financial non-discipline, at least in the part that touches budgetary resources. So far, there have been different interpretations, so it is only right that this issue should be addressed in such a way that it does not allow for any doubts and no different interpretations. However, it will certainly be necessary to do more in the future in the entire area of financial discipline and inequity of the economy, as the situation is more than alarming. The amendments to the ZIPR also concern the enforcement of the possibility of concluding a direct financing contract or co-financing for institutions established by the Republic of Slovenia in the field of international cooperation, thereby creating a legal basis for the conclusion of these contracts in the light of the Court’s observations. There are no reservations at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club at the principal level, but an important substantive issue is raised here, which are the main and most important institutions in this area, how much we need them, what role they play and what results they really achieve. Such a question can also be extended to the entire scope of the operation of various institutions, centres, foundations, agencies and so on. In particular, in this economic crisis, we need to carefully plan funds for these purposes and monitor whether they have specific economic or measurable effects in each case. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also support other solutions relating, among other things, to the possibility of increasing the indebtedness of municipalities as a result of debt transfer, and we want the Government to have a careful review of the debt which is already a pressing problem of the Republic of Slovenia in general as well as in the area of community financing. It is not a problem if the congregations are in debt, but the problem is what they are in charge of. When it comes, of course, to helping draw on European funds, to equip a long-term investment in wastewater treatment, municipal infrastructure, drinking water supply, this is certainly commendable and supportive. However, if the municipalities are in charge of projects that do not have a developmental and long-term character, then such a decision may be controversial and questionable. Let me get this straight. Because in general, ZIPRO brings satisfactory solutions, not ideal ones, we will be united in the law on budget implementation in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Amendments to the law will provide for a new dedicated revenue to invest in public rail infrastructure, as this will provide funds for the modernisation and rehabilitation of railway infrastructure. In this way, it will be possible to achieve, after the modernisation of rail infrastructure, a shift in freight transport and part of the goods from road to rail, which will in the long run make it possible to reduce road transport and reduce the need to increase road capacity, as well as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The amendment of the ZIPro also provides for the re-routing of the part of the concession fee of Luke Koper, as quality railway infrastructure is also necessary for the reliable and competitive operation of Luke Koper and the quality of their services. The law also sets shorter payment deadlines for indirect budgetary users, and the objective of such arrangements and policies in the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is to limit to the maximum extent possible financial non-discipline in those areas financed directly from the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law allows for the conclusion of a direct financing or co-financing contract for institutions established by the Republic of Slovenia in the field of international cooperation. In this way, a legal basis is established for the financing of those institutions. This year, the period expires when local communities will have to transfer their infrastructure, which they have so far managed in various public companies, to their municipal balance sheet. This is the requirement of the Slovenian accounting standard SRS 35, which came into full effect with 1. 1. 2010 Many of these public infrastructures have also been built by credits that have so far not burdened local finances, but can now occur mainly in municipalities that have been over-indebted to exceed the maximum possible 10b debt. the provisions of the Law on the financing of municipalities. Since SRS 35, which no longer allows for the accounting of assets in management, will have to transfer public infrastructure from the business books of public companies to the business books of municipalities. There are risks of exceeding the maximum permitted extent of possible indebtedness of municipalities. Given that a prudent public economic infrastructure is owned by municipalities, it is proposed to regulate municipalities for these purposes in the new 39a. Article of the Community Financing Act - one lays out the legal basis for exceeding the statutory extent of possible indebtedness, as the transfer of infrastructure results in the transfer of those loans from public undertakings due to the acquisition of this public infrastructure. However, the adoption of this law and the law on the provision of funds for investment in public rail infrastructure, which we are adopting at this meeting of the National Assembly today, fulfils the specific transport and transport infrastructure development policy, which is the largest increase in the 2010 budget from all development policies compared to 2009 or past years due to faster financing for the reconstruction or construction of rail infrastructure. Funding has already been provided for the implementation of this law in the State budget. The adopted budget sets out that in 2010 we expect inflows from environmental charges for CO2-emission air loads of € 151 million. These inflows were foreseen as assigned revenue. In accordance with this Act, the purpose of the use of these funds is amended and there is no need to provide the additional resources referred to therein. Of course, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal to amend the law on the implementation of the 2010 and 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u33	So, a respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, unless our amendments are adopted, we will not support the law. We have quite a few reasons for that. First of all, the most important reason is to assess that the proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act is insufficient in view of the accumulated problems associated with this law. Remember that we have adopted the State budget for 2010 and 2011 on the basis of a new approach, the so-called programme-oriented budget. And when we passed the laws, we were able to find that the Public Finance Act did not provide the appropriate formal basis for adopting the so-called programme budget, so the Ministry of Finance had to draw up two texts: one by the old methodology of direct budget users, distribution to ministries and so on, and then, at the same time, the Ministry also prepared a programme-oriented budget, setting out some priorities, programmes and then funding under these programmes. So dual work, with the Ministry deciding to follow the path of a programme-oriented budget in the future. We therefore expected that in this law on public finances, in this amendment, we would also see the legal basis for the future, so that we would have a programmed budget and that we would change the old legal basis for the preparation of the budget accordingly. This is not in this novel, and we miss it, and this is the first key feature of this novel. The second key finding is linked to the findings of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has pointed out several needs to amend the law to show more transparent expenditure and revenue, which is also in the interest of public finances. There's not much change in this light either. I therefore believe that the Ministry of Finance should address these topics more comprehensively, but not as partial as it is, and we also consider that in some cases in the wrong direction. What do I mean? The maximum reading shall fly to Article 4 or to Article 22 of the existing law, where payment deadlines are otherwise defined. Until now, and in the existing, applicable law, the payment deadline for direct budgetary users is 30 days. According to the new proposal you now have on the table, the payment deadline is day 30, which is a major difference, so to speak, the extreme day. Firstly, we believe that this solution will cause certain unnecessary administrative complications - i.e., many will have to receive payment on day 30, no matter what day it is, and no matter how much money the state budget has at that time. So it will no longer be possible to pay the payment period of days 15, 20, or 25, but it will have to be the 30th day. I think there will be a violation of this norm, because sometimes even for purely technical reasons it will not be possible to do so on the 30th day. And I don't know why I wouldn't stay the way I did or why the government wouldn't consider cutting the deadline. That is why the amendment also proposes a reduction in the payment deadline, both for direct and indirect budgetary users, we have a 15-day payment deadline. I think that this would be a smart and necessary step in the direction of also resolving payment non-discipline and, as a consequence, the problems caused by such payment discipline in the chain. However, the second proposal we have is that part of the toll fund collected for freight vehicles could also be used to invest in public rail infrastructure. In fact, the objective of all strategies so far was that part of transit freight transport could be diverted from roads to railways and that tolls from transit freight transport could also be used to finance rail infrastructure. We therefore propose that this should also be defined as a dedicated revenue for financing. Our support or non-support for this law will be linked to the support of the amendments we have tabled. Otherwise, we estimate that the proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act are insufficient in view of the problem described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of the bill is, therefore, to legislate solutions that will allow for the current and smooth implementation of the budget. This is a number of areas where interference with the applicable law is necessary. This has been discussed more by the proposers and in the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The Zares Group identifies three areas as more important. First: first of all, those additions to the existing law that will contribute to reducing and stifling payment non-discipline. Failure to pay is a serious, extremely serious problem. Every step towards mitigation, even though it may be late, contributes to restoring stability and strengthening the entrepreneurial initiative. The country, which is also supposed to take a systemic approach to financial resolution, is obliged to take this step first. It must be for example and must be trustworthy. Second, it is the classification of the road and concessional duties of Luke Koper as part of the dedicated revenue of the budget for the implementation of investments and maintenance in public railway infrastructure. We do not underestimate the almost unanimously voted development law two days ago. Investment in public rail infrastructure was necessary and needed to be moved from a dead point. However, the use of so-called cross-financing in the parliamentary group, as well as in the debate in the National Assembly, did not go unnoticed. Thirdly: the arrangement relates to the transfer of public infrastructure funds from the business books of public undertakings to the business books of municipalities. Debt related to them also travels through funds and there is a completely realistic possibility of over-indebting at local level. However, these "unforeseen debts" do not reduce other debt rights after the law has been amended. The parishioners took a breath, at least temporarily. However, in the fifth chapter of the exit strategy, the government made the next OECD recommendation on simplifying the management of the infrastructure of economic public services. Thus goes the quote: "The municipalities must be able to transfer municipal infrastructure as a capital injection to current public companies owned by them and thus simplify the system of maintenance and investment in infrastructure." The difference is obvious. We are really trying to remind the government of something because she recently presented it to us. The benefits of the amended bill are also very obvious. The Group of Ambassadors will therefore really support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. The changes and additions to the law before us bring about quite a few changes in various areas. The first area is the identification of earmarked funds for the construction of public railway infrastructure, which is essentially the basis for the amendments already adopted to the Law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure. The amendment of ZIPRO provides a dedicated resource for the construction of railway infrastructure, namely an annual road levy and part of the concession under the title of Luka Koper. The next area that we highlight and welcome is the setting of payment deadlines, where the payment deadlines for direct budgetary users are more precisely set at 30 days, while also setting deadlines for indirect budgetary users, which has not been set so far. This is certainly a good measure in times of difficulty when we face liquidity problems in the economy. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this is the first measure, which is aimed at addressing this issue, almost two months after the adoption of the exit strategy. The following amendment or amendments to the law relate to the legal basis for financing institutions, as we do not have the appropriate legal basis for concluding direct contracts with institutions established by the State and carrying out tasks of public interest. Let me also stress the change in the regulation of municipal infrastructure relations at the level of the municipalities. As a result of the change in management resources, municipalities have taken ownership of the infrastructure of certain public companies or other undertakings operating this infrastructure. As this infrastructure was also burdened with debts, debt had to be taken over at the same time. It is therefore necessary to allow for the possibility that the extent to which a municipality's debt arising from the acquisition of municipal infrastructure and at the same time the debt for this infrastructure may be greater than that laid down in the Community Financing Act. That is why we will support this law in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u39	President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that provides for the establishment of a dedicated fund to finance public rail infrastructure. With the new earmarked revenue to invest in public railway infrastructure, funds will be provided to modernise railway infrastructure. In this way, the maximum shift of goods from road to rail is sought, allowing for a long-term reduction of road traffic and fewer road capacity requirements. As a result, this solution should also be environmentally friendly, as it is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the conversion of heavy-duty trucks to trains. This proposal for a law is also the basis for providing funds in the budget for the implementation of the amendment to the Law on Investment in Public Railway Infrastructure adopted at this meeting. The fund shall be supplemented by existing duties paid by the owners of vehicles for the use of roads. At the same time, the Fund will also benefit from the concession granted by the State from the use of the port of Cyprus. The amendment also lays down payment deadlines for indirect budgetary users. The aim of such an arrangement is to minimise financial non-discipline in those areas financed directly from the budgets. The proposal also provides for the possibility of harmonising a direct financing contract or co-financing for institutions established by the State in the field of international cooperation. In this way, the legal basis for financing these institutions is established. The amendment of the law gives the public a legal basis for overstepping the statutory scope of possible indebtedness, but only for the purpose of transferring public infrastructure from the business books of public undertakings to the business books of municipalities. As a result, the transfer of infrastructure also carries on those debts incurred in a public undertaking due to the acquisition of this public infrastructure. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles of the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26. 3. 2010 Since the amendments can still be tabled, we have not yet received this review, so I am, of course, putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS and SD groups of Members. I must first read the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1: Article 1 is prepared to read: "In the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. In Article 11, point 13 is amended as follows: 13, part of the appropriations for tolls collected for freight vehicles shall be used to invest in public railway infrastructure." And the amendment of the SD Group of Members: In point 13, the words "and maintenance" are added after the words "to make investments". Anybody want to talk? Yeah, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u41	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proposing an amendment that would also use part of the toll money collected for freight vehicles to make investments in public rail infrastructure. The proposal follows the European directives, as it places a more fair burden on users of motorways or roads, especially heavy motor vehicles in transit. Indeed, it is more than clear that Slovenia is a transit country and that the Slovenian motorway network is very burdened by this transit freight transport. As a rule, because of the high excise duties introduced by this government, these fireplaces are no longer "tanking" in Slovenia, which means that the problem, or the loss of government revenue, is also due to excise duties. None of this transit is like a toll collected, and it would be appropriate for this money to be deliberately diverted to the construction of the railway infrastructure. In fact, if we are to seriously redirect some of this transit traffic from road to rail in the future, we must also redirect the money collected by tolls into investment in railway infrastructure. We therefore believe that this proposal is in the spirit of not only planned investments in railway infrastructure but also in the spirit of environmental protection. In fact, we will not only unload our motorways with this measure, but we will also unload our exhausts into our environment, these transit trucks, which, for the most part, carry country plates in the east, countries that are much lower after development than Slovenia and Western Europe, and consequently also have categories of ecological acceptability or suitability of these vehicles. We therefore believe that this would significantly accelerate the construction and modernisation of the necessary railway infrastructure, and therefore this proposal is worth supporting. It seems reasonable, however, to support the amendment proposed by the SD by extending in some way those sources of rail infrastructure, as set out in the thirteenth point of this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Let me just point out that if the SDS Group's amendment to Article 1 is adopted, then the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS groups is irrelevant. So much for your knowledge. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. Anton Kampush has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u43	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Finally, we can say that someone was even hoping to address this important issue of our railway infrastructure. We can estimate it's been a while. We would expect that there would be no such problems as there are today if someone had hoped to get involved in these problems in the past, since you probably all know each other well. It is also clear from the media what actions, what compensation payments the State of Slovenia has had to pay to some who have suffered relatively large pollution, and also such a deconstructive life in the Pomurje area and everywhere else. This is how we must admit today that I will support this law, and I will not support the SDS amendment. I must say that I am very, very happy today, mainly because of the purpose of the law, particularly in the sense that when investments are under way, there will be a reduction in emissions, which is inevitable and absolutely necessary. Of course, we all want as much rail traffic as possible, which means that we also need to look at it professionally. However, professionally, railway infrastructure will not bring any improvement within short kilometres, especially as it can bring improvements to the type when it comes to transiting through Slovenia. So the study shows that only those distances that are larger are economically justified, and that is probably what this means for us. It also means that other infrastructure important matters will have to be regulated, such as loading ramps, logistics warehouses and so on. I'm particularly happy to see you once inside this payment hand. I would like these payment deadlines, which are written within this law, to come into effect slowly here for everything else, because it would be extremely beneficial for our economy, I expect that we will move on in this regard. I am also pleased that, of course, all those municipalities that are actually going to get this infrastructure in their property, so that they can also be slightly more indebted on this basis, so that there will be some over-indebtedness. This is of course important, otherwise this infrastructure will probably not be much. I'm running away from something else. The latest research in the European Union concerning transport at all, the frequency of traffic, one and the other, namely road and rail, tells us slightly different. This means that road traffic is expected to increase there by about 50% to be about 2% rail. This is how the latest research is running a little bit, and it is now quite clear that we missed the train with the railway infrastructure. It is also clear, then, that we have missed this train years ago with an unserious approach and that we are now lagging for Europe. I just wish that this money, which is intended for infrastructure in terms of railway connections, would be enough. Of course, there's one more thing that's bugging me. There is also much talk that the purpose of this is to improve or make it easier for Luke Koper to operate. But at this point, you know, every day we have it in the paper, and a little bit of that will have to imagine what was going on with Luca Koper, what was going on with Luca Koper, and how we're going to get out of this. Thus, a set of circumstances that are probably going in a positive direction, at least in the construction of our railway infrastructure. I am promising from this that we will also be such a European country as any other country, i.e. in terms of re-orientation to the railway tracks. To a large extent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much, President. With the support of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not have any problems or concerns, especially because, in a significant part, it also allows for several different transport policies or at least the implementation of climate and environmental policies. And the first amendment or amendment to Article 1 proposed by the coalition is also going this way, and probably no one will have a dilemma here. However, I am of the opinion that the amendment proposed by the SDS is also aimed at improving transport policy, improving environmental and climate policy and operational behaviour in these areas. What is embarrassing here is the opportunity that is delayed to compliment what is good at this amendment, so to speak, the foreign transit across our country, which is not the case now, somehow by complimenting that the payment of that part of the obligation we have by building highways would not be compromised. And I'm afraid that we missed an opportunity here when we could find a complementary solution in order to burden those who today call themselves "freeways" driving across our country, as we have provided the funds needed to repay the debts related to our motorways. In the separation of this amendment, I also feel a dilemma, and therefore I cannot vote against this amendment because it is well-directed and I cannot vote for it, if this means a reduction in the means to pay off the motorways already built.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Indeed, the proposal by the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party puts the concept of financing and highway, as well as railway infrastructure in a new light, into a new dimension. It says that a good and prudent part of the toll collected for freight vehicles would be to invest in public rail infrastructure. So, let's take this seriously with some intent to divert freight traffic to the railway, wherever possible. Of course, there is much more to be done, from an appropriate regulation to allowing part of this freight transport to be transferred to the railways. It also depends on the support of this amendment - and this amendment requires even a handful of implementation activities of the ministry and the government as a whole. The adoption of this amendment will be a green light at all, whether this concept is desirable in Slovenia. Some of you who have criticized me, you know, why it wasn't in the past, you don't want it to be in the future either. Well, you're obvious is completely unarguable. For if this has not been so far, then why should it not be after this. Isn't that an argument to say no because it wasn't two, three, four, five years ago or I don't know when? This is the first thing I want to stress. Of course, if both amendments are excluded, we will, of course, support our own in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Second of all, I'm interested in something. I can see that the secretary of state is here and certainly has data, as a percentage, given the drastic increase in tolls that have occurred in Slovenia with the sale of stickers, vineyards, I am interested in how many years have been sold and how many other vineyards have been sold so far. I think it's supposed to be most of the year. How do we achieve last year's sales results? Did more money be collected from the title of the so - called vignette than last year? And how do you estimate that this new, more expensive wine policy will meet the expectations of the revenue under this heading, as planned for 2010? So, after the current interim data on sold vineyards, will you not reach the plan, or what it is about last year's realisation? We know we've had much cheaper vineyards.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u49	I will not support one amendment or another, nor will I support the law, because it seems to me that I did not support the law on investment in rail infrastructure before yesterday, because it seems to me that it is far beyond or even beyond the limits of what is governed by the law on public finances. That is why I am closer to thinking, even in the explanation of this law, which says that Parliament - this is how they work in Sweden and elsewhere - has adopted the items, adopted the budget and given the government some authority that certain things can also be settled. As with the law on the implementation of the budget, we regulate everything in a new way and redistribute it in some strange ways, but it seems to me that it is excessive. Therefore, it would be much better if we were not already talking about the content; the content that is talking about the source, from where, say, railway infrastructure, or whether state roads need any financial injections to restore them, in order to reconstruct some, and so on. And this is just about putting some dedicated resource somewhere else. I believe that the basic tax on motor vehicles and road user fees is intended to build and rebuild roads, but not for something else. Of course, I respect the effort and in any case I support investment in both the railway and roads and other infrastructure, but a little more of this transparency and purpose could already be. The most correct thing would have been, as it had always been, that we would have been able to do so when we had a gas tolar or later the euro, which had raised funds for the construction of roads or the repayment of credits, all of this was lost in the integrated budget. However, it is true that the liability for the payment of credits under this heading was then settled or remunerated and re-indebted. That's why credits can either be reprogrammed or repaid, because at this point I don't even know how long it is, but it's probably three or four billion euros already, as you would say, as far as highway smoke is concerned. Here was the most successful in borrowing former Finance Minister Bajuk. You know, we discovered hot water once when the loans were cheap, if we let ourselves be in debt, that's the nicest thing. Of course, this turned out very quickly, for a short period of time, and now the situation is known to all. Because if we have money from road use on that item that this resource is supposed to be for, if we have a liability on the other side, I don't know why we're directing this resource somewhere else. More clearly, it would be clearer: the country would be in debt or issued, say, bonds, I really don't understand why public infrastructure such as railways would not issue bonds that would certainly be the subject of great demand on the market, because, if I could say so, the country back there would be a good deal on dividends or interest on bonds for those who would invest in it. Last time, two days ago, there were no representatives of the Ministry of Finance here, and I asked the Minister of Transport how these matters are now. It will simply create a hole in the budget, we will give the intended source somewhere, how will we end this; will it only be a larger deficit, or will it be a greater debt, or what does it actually mean? For both the 2010 and 2011 budget and the level of resources for individual purposes have been defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mag. Stoner, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Regarding the financing of rail infrastructure. The government has decided to propose this dedicated resource for the reason that, in its exit strategy, it has presented the construction of rail infrastructure as its priority in the next medium term. This project will involve European funds already approved and will need to ensure a stable source of co-financing or complementing these European funds from the state budget. Of course, there is a possibility of issuing a bond for these purposes, but this means additional indebtedness to the State for which the Government has assessed that it is not appropriate at this time, especially because there is a large consolidation of public finances in the coming years. This is also why we tried to provide this dedicated resource. You are well aware that, at the annual budget of the National Assembly, there is a much greater interest in providing funds for road infrastructure, including at the expense of rail infrastructure. This often leads to reduced resources for the purpose of railway infrastructure and, therefore, to slow down the dynamics in the construction of railway infrastructure. There is no need to change the budget itself because of what we are proposing by the law on the implementation of the budget. It is true that the law on the implementation of the 2010 budget did not recognise them as earmarked funds in the budget itself, so this is a solution to this issue. As regards the initiative or the proposed SDS amendment. Look, first of all, the amendment is so eloquent that it's hard to know how much money is to be spent on the construction of the railway infrastructure. If we were to go into this matter, it would have to be decidedly stated what extent. Another issue, which is of a more substantive nature, is the fact that Dars, who has on his shoulders the construction and completion of the highway programme and the servicing of the debt from the construction of the highway programme, is in such a situation that the tolls will hardly be sufficient to repay existing loans with the appropriate reprograms and that existing infrastructure will be maintained by force. You will probably also discuss the sustainability of the existing motorway financing system when considering the motorway programme. For this reason, we simply cannot afford to devote any part of the toll for purposes other than those for which they are currently earmarked in existing legislation. As far as data on collected tolls are concerned, I can answer your questions right now. I don't have all the information you wanted right now, and we'll give you a written answer. In any event, the vignettes that were installed in 2008 were too low to service the obligations that Dars had already had and were also lower-directed than the tolls that were previously collected through direct toll collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I will cut back on some things because my colleague Anderlič took off, but there was something in the answer, although with the answer, I apologize to the Secretary of State, and I am far from satisfied. I call it a public-funded alchemy, which we go to yesterday and today, and a few days ago in the National Assembly. Allow an introduction that may at first be untamed, but would remind you. We ended up with self-governing stakeholders 21 years ago - it's supposed to be. I have a feeling we're going back to them, in that negative sense. Secondly, last night was an interesting performance by one of the former ministers in the neighbouring country of Croatia, who made it clear that when we enter, we get 15 to 17 billion euros into the European Union. We need that much for the river-Zagreb route, so much Zagreb-Beograd, even for the track to the Adriatic, down to the plates, that Croatian part and another project and the strategic projects are completed. Why did I say it was a public-funded alchemy? I submit that this law, this amendment to this article, when it tries with good purpose, I agree that it is necessary to provide the necessary public funds or resources, as well as others, for the railway. But with this so-called crossover, as someone baptized it, this cross-financing thing, I'm sorry, it has nothing to do with it. These sources don't make sense. How illogical they are, however, I ask the question both to the proposaler and to the opposition, which I understand to be provoking with the amendments I am taking at the level of provocation, except for that part of one amendment when it was in the proportion of GDP, which would only make sense to ensure a certain proportion of GDP in the annual budget, as a guiding criterion for the railway. Pika. Nothing else. Another time. I agree with the opposition; what has been said in relation to the related law: we must first have a valued national track. For ongoing projects, however, I hope we can already calculate. But if we provoke in sources, I ask why there is no compensation in the resources of either the applicant or the opposition for the use of rail infrastructure - not for personal or freight transport. Is any source more logical than a resource of purpose? No one's suggesting, no one's answering. I can see who is, because I'm sure no one is paying for it, or is only recorded on paper as an obligation. That's how we play with resources. What colleague Anderlich said is true. Or if we go wider: we still have four public financial problems: paying off Dars' loans, so thinking about any transfers from tolls or anything on railways - forgive me, this is unrealistic, because we will have a bigger problem of how to provide Darsa, unless we design a toll to impossible heights. The second is to provide public funds for the purchase of emission vouchers. The third is the cost of maintenance and reconstruction, investment maintenance of state public roads, as well as municipal roads. Why is this resource the most appropriate, registration fee that we now take to the railways, and we think, forgive us for knocking on someone's chin with this? We're not gonna make any of this happen! That's why I'm asking for a quantitative response. Earlier in terms of what was asked: how much of the invoices are from registration fees and how nominal is the item in the 2010 and 2009 budget on the expenditure side for railway infrastructure. Only when you say it - because you can look for yourself - will we be able to debate whether the balance is needed because of this law or the balance is not needed, or will you do it with diversions, which is also possible as a technique to say in advance that no one would answer me in this way. And by doing so, we do nothing useful. On the outside we try not to tell anyone, to the public or to the Slovenian public, or to prove to ourselves that we have done something about it. And, of course, as it was, I apologize, Secretary of State, because it will look like some kind of replica or controversy with it, but it is meant in fact as self-criticism or criticism to us, here in the National Assembly, which we adopt this law, and then yesterday, the state budget, or the rebalance and such matters. It has been said that when budgets are adopted, there is an ever-increasing preference for "roadways" rather than railways. Yes, for God's sake, that's what we accept! Whether our mood now depends on weather conditions or annual time, because we are adopting the autumn budget, and in the spring we are now adopting a public-funded alchemy to provide funds. Our orientation would be more possible - to commit the Government as budget promoter - so much of GDP should be ensured every year in the budget. But it's true that we can ask ourselves where to get this from. It's nice to take pictures, but we all say we're gonna save the railroads. Firstly, we will not solve anything for a short period of time, but we need to start to resolve it and it needs to be taken from somewhere, because there is no additional resources for the state budget and this requires the restructuring of the state budget and, consequently, I am sure of the rebalancing. That is why - I will not speak again, because otherwise - this change in this ZIPra may be necessary to the extent of the problems that are ongoing, but it is unacceptable that the situation is both due to institutions or institutions and to this funding, which is relatively late. Otherwise, I think that this law and those earlier in life are unnecessary and do not bring anything of any quality, except some false hope to the public that we are saving something, and in fact nothing. I would have remembered, but let the current opposition not take that as a criticism of its rule or whatever. The fact is that the National Assembly adopted, years ago, the rebalancies when it was reducing funds for rail infrastructure, while at the same time those who had to take care of the projects had public tendering with clauses: "We reserve the right to withdraw the call unless financial resources are provided." Not for investments, for project documentation, and for investment preparation! From a state like this to a new state, it's impossible to skip overnight, so I'm not going to personally support the amendment or the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much. You want a word? Mag. Stoner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. It's about dedicated resources. Although I agree that life would be much better if we did not have dedicated resources, the Public Finance Act itself foresees them. It is also true that sometimes we simply use a dedicated resource to limit ourselves, both within the Government, in proposing different solutions and in making decisions in the National Assembly. I think the purpose of this proposal is exactly that. With regard to the 2010 balance sheet or the 2010 budget in force In the 2010 budget in force, funding for the financing of railway infrastructure amounting to 151 million was foreseen and is expected to be provided with a CO2 fee. This fee was not recognised in the applicable law on the implementation of the budget as a resource. For this reason alone, there will be no need to change the budget, but the fact that CO2 is more related to emission vouchers and that we will choose to purchase emission vouchers this year, and we will also have to present this with the national budget's rebalancing, then it is better that the C02 fee remains as an integral part of the budget and in this way is not directly linked to the purchase of emission vouchers. In this way, of course, we provide the possibility of implementing the programme and drawing on European funds for the construction of railway infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u56	You wanted a replica? Please, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u57	I'm sorry. I apologize to the Secretary of State again. It probably fell out, and one number was said that the investments on the expenditure side were 151 million - OK. How much is on the income side of this tax that we are now deliberately transferring to the railway? And secondly, I apologize for your responsibility and expertise, but all you have to do is be careful. Assigned revenue and budgetary funds are linked, but not always the same, in particular when there is no logic between dedicated revenue and, on the other hand, dedicated expenditure. There's no logic here, no connection. That is why we must be careful in this matter. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u58	The word has magic. The stoner. She can get a word when she wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The revenue side also provided for 151 million revenue from the CO2 tax. Thus, the balance sheet, as far as this is concerned, was balanced in the state budget. As far as the budget funds and dedicated revenue are concerned. It is true that there are two instruments here, but they work in a similar way. It is essential that the resources to be obtained are linked to specific expenditure and that unused funds may be transferred to the next year for the same purpose. And this is actually a system that can work very positively in larger investment projects. However, it is a disruptive factor and is a derogation from the basic principle of the integrated budget and I fully agree with you and, certainly, from the point of view of pure and transparent public finances, we should dispose of virtually all dedicated resources if we are to be completely exposed. But, unfortunately, life sometimes goes a little differently and also beyond what we want in public finance theory and would be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. There have been quite a few words about this amendment, even when we discussed this law on earmarked means of investing in public rail infrastructure a few days ago. The point is that this amendment, which we propose, is not a provocation, as Mr Trofenik said a little back there. This is not a provocation of the opposition. If this is a provocation, then it is a provocation adopted by the European Commission by the Eurovignette Directive. The Eurovignette Directive allows for part of the tolls of heavy cargo transit, which burden roads, to be used to finance other infrastructure projects. That was the purpose and purpose of this amendment of ours. It is not about anti-funding for the maintenance of public rail infrastructure and investment, but about the fact that the resources are purer, more logical and even fair. See, at the moment when these funds are allocated, the annual levy on the use of motor vehicles or the old to make it clear, the road fee paid by all Slovenian motor vehicle users, and the additional concession of Luke Koper, is now based exclusively on Slovenian users. So all of us who own passenger cars now place this tax directly on investments in public rail infrastructure. That's how the coalition majority decided. Heavy cargo transit, which is rolling on Slovenian highways, and we know that 90% of this heavy cargo transit, which burdens our highways, are foreign trucks. And they contribute nothing to this modernisation of Slovenian railway infrastructure. Even that part of the excise duty that we might be able to contribute to the budget by buying fuel in Slovenia is not because they prefer to fuel abroad because of the high excise duties that this government has introduced is too expensive for us. So that's what we're talking about, honesty. Is it fair that Slovenian citizens who have cars now fully contribute to the construction of public railway infrastructure, while 90% of foreign transit with heavy trucks is driven through Slovenia and nothing contributes to this modernisation? This is not a provocation, this is a logical question that follows, in fact, the Eurovignette Directive. Read it for yourself! On this basis, this amendment of ours came about, precisely because it wants a heavy foreign cargo transit to burden itself. Why are we modernising rail infrastructure? The main purpose of modernising rail infrastructure is to shift heavy freight from road to rail. Thus, in fact, this heavy freight transit, which burdens the environment and motorways, by partly contributing part of these tolls for the purpose of modernising and investing in public rail infrastructure, can, of course, make a fair contribution to making it better at the end of these trucks, hopefully, due to the greater competitiveness of rail infrastructure. That's the main purpose. The point is that the source is more fair than it is now defined in this proposal. And that was our amendment. Of course, on the other hand, many times the question arises as to what happens now with Dars' debt and what happens to Dars. Dars can be very economical, too. Dars can take the first step now with the annual plan and look at perhaps the last recommendation of the Court of Auditors and these measures to maintain the highway, if we understand correctly, is being carried out uneconomically, and here also saves percentages. And these percentages, which will be saved, can be quietly earmarked from this part of the tolls for the maintenance of public rail infrastructure. And that was the main purpose of this amendment. I understand that some of the debaters in the coalition have also found that maybe an annual fee - and here I think that the annual road fee that we pay when we register is more necessary to maintain regional state roads, which are also in poor shape. The Concession of Luke Koper - in the past was a profit in Luka Koper, now, as we hear, is a loss. Maybe it would be better if part of the concession was left to Luke Copper. It was probably also a profit in the past because the current Secretary of State, Mr Jakomin, advised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u62	You want the word mag. A stoner? [[No, no, ……]] Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. In the course of this debate in these amendments, notably the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the warning of the President of the National Assembly that if this amendment were adopted, then the irrelevant amendment of the four coalition groups talking about being included in the law on the implementation of the budget in this 13th paragraph would mean that the law on the implementation of the budget would be inconsistent with the law on the provision of funds for public railway infrastructure investments that we have considered in the previous day. This makes it almost impossible to support the SDS amendment and would certainly cause very serious problems in the implementation of the law to provide funds for investment in railway infrastructure, particularly for the maintenance of railway infrastructure. However, with regard to other matters covered by the amendment, it is necessary to re-emphasize the fact that Darsa’s indebtedness is such that it is not possible to take toll funds and allocate them for the construction of railways, because these obligations are already so great that they will be very difficult to cover them fully with the toll already collected. If we add to this the fact that in the previous term the blames were introduced at an extremely low price, these resulted in a very large drop in the year precisely when the current price could raise significantly more funds for the construction, maintenance and development of motorways and, of course, had a significantly better financial situation in Darsa and today could significantly help to solve some of the issues that are mainly related to whether Dars also needs to be further indebted to the completion of the highway programme. It would not have to be indebted to such an extent if the vines had a reasonable, fixed price in the first year when they were also applied. Thus, this dedicated resource for the payment of credits, maintenance and construction of motorways must remain where it is. However, if we are talking about whether we really have an interest in modernising rail infrastructure as soon as possible and whether we have an interest to draw up as many European funds as possible for this purpose, then it is very important that we also provide in our budget resources, which will also allow us to draw up European money, as well as the preparation of project documentation and everything necessary for the construction of rail infrastructure, also ensure in our budget. Thus, the impact of this law on the implementation of the budget as well as the law on investment in public rail infrastructure will be significantly greater than is immediately measured in EUR 125 million, as far as the resources under the annual road transport duty provided for in 2010. I think that in this economic and financial crisis it is very important that we try to elevate our own resources with European resources, because this is the only direct source that then has a significantly greater impact on both gross social product and other jobs and on the provision of contracts that are still necessary for all those companies involved in producing certain elements that are integrated into railway infrastructure. I will therefore oppose the amendment of the SDS Group and will support the amendment of the four groups of Members, by which we also coordinate the law on the implementation of the budget with the law on investments in public rail infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u64	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 1? I'm opening applications. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you. Hello, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! My opinion is, too, like the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we cannot agree in any way to burden Slovenian transport companies, Slovenian carriers, with an additional price for investing in infrastructure. He said very well, Mr. Peter Verlič, when he said that foreign carriers, which to the greatest extent destroy Slovenian motorways, actually contribute very, very little to the development of Slovenian roads. I know that we are all the same in Europe and that we can work on the price difference between Slovenian transport companies and foreign transport companies. However, we have already proposed solutions to the Minister how Slovenian transport companies could be protected and how to additionally burden foreign transport companies. This would create the competitiveness of Slovenian transport companies as well as an additional source of revenue for the development of railway infrastructure. It's true that Luca Koper is a company that I always say is a golden chicken carrying golden eggs. Believe me, Luke Koper gives concessions to the state as well as to the congregation, and it is very sad that certain people do not even know that 50% of the concession belongs to the congregation. I believe it is right that the concession is obtained in those places where it is polluted, where there is actually an ecological disaster, if I may say so, or the ecological pollution of the place where Porta Koper is actually. Therefore, it is also right that he belongs to the congregation of Koper, now, as we hear it, and we would like to see a new congregation formed in Ankaran. Yeah, well, it's only about the interests of the money. I hope that they agree correctly and that money will also come to the Ankaran congregation, because Ankaran must develop as Koper. It is true, however, that money is actually from foreign transport companies for the development of Slovenian railways, not the burden on Slovenian transport companies and Slovenian citizens. That is why I cannot agree with the Slovenians starting to rebuild roads and railways themselves, but not those that are making the biggest burden and are also polluting the state of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I will listen to stay within the framework of the content of the amendment. If I freshen up a little bit, what are we actually trying to do with the amendment? First of all, I would like to justify this because, by establishing a new revenue for public rail infrastructure investments, it is precisely the intention to provide a dedicated source of funding for public rail infrastructure investments and maintenance investments. We're united here, and there's no difference here. This is what we wanted, and we have listened to debates in Parliament throughout. And when we actually come to someone hoping for it, we'll see what it'll look like in practice, even though one of the sources, believe me, can be controversial. When those who now receive the 50% or how many concession fees belonging to the State are likely to be invested in the infrastructure by the State back in Luka. It's probably not gonna happen now, or I don't know. If we have embarked on such a method of financing and if the basic intention of this law is to modernise railways and thus enable railways to take over road freight transport, thus depriving the road and, as a result, a smaller investment in road maintenance will be needed and we can devote more money to public rail infrastructure. See, if we fail to comply with this amendment, which we have proposed to Article 1, then we will in fact reward foreign road hauliers. Let's reward them. First, let us charge the Slovenian budget, load the concession fee for the port of Koper, for motor vehicles, says what every citizen pays, and leave foreign road hauliers who drive through Slovenia, and we do not hope to take what is, in fact, stipulated in the European Directive, that we can do so. And here it seems a shame and you will see that something will soon prove to be good if this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is followed and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Ma'am mag. The stoner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I have to take another look at this amendment, which opened a very broad debate on the dedicated funding resource. The law on the implementation of the budget only recognises the resource of purpose, which has been determined by another law - nothing else. Because it is a system that we have in place in public finances to determine each year's law on the implementation of the budget, which of the dedicated resources is recognised in the budget as dedicated resources. That is why all this debate you now have, including the amendment, is the subject of another law, the one you discussed yesterday. Today, we are just discussing whether we will recognize this in the budget or not. I think you've actually located this broad debate at the wrong time and in the wrong place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u70	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would ask only one reply from the Secretary of State. I think we're spinning around in the wrong argument. We are talking, and even in the law mentioned earlier, we have only talked about whether we will provide a resource of purpose or not. Not new, extra, fresh assets. And even with the amendment that we are discussing today, we are not providing new fresh resources and are not burdening foreign transit transport. They pay their own as they've paid so far. Only that part of the funds isn't located for rail infrastructure. I told you before that we missed this debate. We missed it when we did not put a higher burden on foreign transit traffic than we are now burdened with.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u72	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. In this debate, I would like to say that everything seems to me to be a bit of a diversion. I would ask myself in what, perhaps this is a question for the Secretary of State, if he can technically explain to me what the million euro coming from the intended source of the annual levy is different from the million euro coming from the intended source of the tolls. Is it perhaps in color, perhaps in weight, perhaps in value? What's different about him?Oh, my God! We do nothing here but provide a stable and secure source with which to build railways. From my point of view - whether it comes from an annual tax, or whether it comes from a toll, or whether it comes from a church tax - it's the same. What will result from the annual levy means that what remains on tolls can be used for other purposes. Or what is now determined, or otherwise, if we make a different decision in the National Assembly. But if we turn around, he can do it for me, and he'll walk away with the toll money, and he'll be out of the annual allowance. But money is money! It has the same color and the same value. So, please, stop at whether it comes from a toll or an annual fee, I think it's totally out of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u74	Ma'am mag. Stoner, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u75	We do not impose any new duties under this law. What Mr Rezman said is absolutely true. However, we are talking as if we are now introducing new duties and new burdens for one another, the other and the third. But that's not true. The essence of dedicated revenue under the current legislation is simply to link a resource to some expenditure. And this assigned revenue is treated differently in the budgetary implementation process than the unintended income being treated. What's the difference? They differ in the fact that until money flows into the state budget, it is not possible to spend, because all other expenditure is possible because there is no direct link and that unused funds can be transferred in the current year for the same purpose in financing next year. This is an essential difference in dedicated resources. If I now limit myself to the question that Mr Frangež has asked, look, the difference is whether we keep the matter inside one of the cash registers or we go to the trouble with financial flows. If we took the tolls from Dars, then Dars would have to direct part of the tolls to the state budget, which would have been recognized as a dedicated income, and we should have given Dars an additional transfer because otherwise he couldn't have serviced his debts. And we would have some additional financial transactions, but the final result would be exactly the same as today when we're not doing it. All this debate seems rather unnecessary to me. I think it's more like a debate on whether or not it's dedicated resources, but you had to make that decision yesterday, not today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u76	I conclude the debate. Does anyone else want a word about the amendments to Article 1? [[....]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! I know, luckily, at least part of this system, but she's already answered. But why did I make up my mind when I was doing something in my office and listening to the debate? Some things actually need to be done, and I thank you for the clarification, in fact it is necessary to clarify. This is where foreign motorists come through, and now domestic motorists. It is not my opinion that this would have been more of a discussion last two days, but it is not a matter of additional burden for domestic motor vehicles or motorists. I think that this needs to be made clear because it will turn out otherwise in the public eye to be some additional tolls or extra tolls, as we say. And the fact that foreign motorists don't contribute anything. According to my assessment, foreign motorists could contribute more with higher tolls, certainly, but since there cannot be different tolls, it is probably possible to mitigate in another way the consequences of possible higher tolls, if we can still have them, for all car carriers, and then for domestic carriers in some other way, under the legislative option to refund and on the basis of excise duties. Here I must agree that these excise duties should be kept at such a level or the prices of oil derivatives in order to be of interest to foreign motorists after the consumption or purchase of oil derivatives in Slovenia. In any case, I agree with those who say - because we are not talking about ZIPRO today, but we are talking about financing highway and rail infrastructure in particular - that a resolution on the national programme for the construction and maintenance of railway infrastructure needs to be drawn up. Where the most difficult part of this resolution is for sure, it is necessary to present a financial structure for the implementation of this resolution or national programme. This was the biggest problem in all periods, in all years, not only with railway infrastructure, but also with all other national programmes. Since we are talking about Article 1 or the amendments to Article 1, I must say that I find it completely irrelevant whether it comes from one bag because it is a common bag, whether I or there. It is important that this money is distributed in this way, of course with the credits that we need to rent, that it is possible to cover credits on one side and that it is possible to maintain this network properly, including motorways, and more in railways. My message is, above all, to say that the automotive companies because of this law that we passed two days ago - and we have all voted in favour, as I know - will not be completely burdened. And the fact that it is possible for foreign motorists to destroy our highways is more burdensome. I don't know if it's possible or not, because I don't know what it's like to be in the direction of the European Union, where we are on whether heavy trucks can be even more burdened with tolls or not. As far as excise duties are concerned, there is certainly an appeal that these excise duties must be at such a level that the fuel consumption at Slovenian pumps will be as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u78	I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 1. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 4 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here we propose an amendment to shorten payment deadlines for direct and indirect budgetary users. The proposal has history and roots in the previous anti-crisis proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we believe that the country's long payment deadlines are also one of the important causes of the payment non-discipline and the consequences of the payment non-discipline that are present in Slovenia and are particularly recent. Contrary to these efforts, i.e. after the payment deadlines have been cut, the state or government or the Ministry of Finance is going in the opposite direction. It suggests, even in some cases, an extension of payment periods. So far, the payment deadline for direct budgetary users has been 30 days. That's what it means before. And the Secretary of State, if I'm not mistaken, has repeatedly said that payment takes place before 30 days. Now with a new proposal, the payment deadline is 30 days. This 30th day can be Friday, it can be Saturday, it can be Sunday, it can be a holiday, it can be any time. The state may have the money available, but it will not pay because this condition will not be met: the legal condition of day 30. We therefore believe that it would be right to shorten these payment deadlines and that is why we also propose that the Slovenian Democratic Party reduce this to 15 days. We think that this is important, not the only one, but a very important counter-crisis measure that can also lead to a reduction in payment deadlines in the chain to others, including the Slovenian economy, to that segment which is full of taxes, contributions and other state budget and other state treasury. It is crucial that we consider in this law also those who may be affected by these solutions, not only in financial terms, but also in terms of the introduction of bureaucratic barriers, make life bitter. And here I ask the Government whether it has calculated, evaluated or assessed the bureaucratic complications that arise from this solution, as proposed, that the payment period is 30 days. Someone's gonna have to take the 30th day. That's how I read this marriage. If that's not the case, please let the government explain how it is. If an act binds itself exactly one day, although it can be done two or three or one weeks earlier, it means some unnecessary restriction. And what led the government to write the 30th day as a payment deadline for direct budget users?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u80	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much, again. Well, this is an emergency law we're enacting. I think that if there is something urgent now, then it is necessary to take action so that the payment chain will no longer be torn apart and that many companies in Slovenia will not be threatened because of these non-payments. Shortening payment deadlines is one option. This cannot save the Slovenian economy, but it can help. And I think it is necessary to do everything possible to help ensure that payment discipline is as low as possible and that the reduction of payment deadlines can help. For a year, at least, we have been talking about various measures and instruments to ensure payment discipline, and we have only realized something small in this regard. I hope that as soon as possible, we will ensure that we will not be able to collect wreaths from the graves of the Slovenian economy when it is too late. That is why I think it is also worth reconsidering this amendment, and I think it is right if the payment hands can be cut short.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u82	I see no one wants to discuss it anymore. One more time. Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u83	Now I see they're waking up across the street. I had a very specific question for the government, and it would be nice for the government to answer something for me. I am also interested in what led the government and whether it has made an assessment, because I repeat what I have already said, what unnecessary bureaucratic complications are caused by the definition that the payment period is the thirtieth day. Once again: this is the extreme day of the current payment deadline, because so far the payment deadline for direct budget users has been 30 days and it was legal for someone to pay even the 15th day if he had money, 30th and 25th days. Now it won't be legal, because he'll have to pay for the 30th day. That's a significant difference in my judgment. Second. This provision will cause bureaucratic complications after unnecessary. I ask because, in some way, this government has committed itself, at least in some way, to ensuring that it does not cause bureaucratic complications or that it will go against it, to relieve itself. What, and what, was behind this solution? Has the assessment been made how long the payment deadlines will be extended? One more question. For every time I answer, I'll have another. What is the average country's payment period for direct budgetary users so far? I'm sure you have that information.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u84	Ma'am mag. Stoner, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In the previous mandate, the Law on the implementation of the budget was written in such a way that it was stipulated that the payment deadlines for goods and services were 30 days and for investment expenditure of 60 days. And this is how the entire state administration acted, so that the procedures are completely avoided. The same law was passed last year, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which stipulated that 30 days is the period of payment. In this year, I believe there was a lapsus in the writing of the law, because when we looked at the magnetogram of the debate on the law on the implementation of the budget, it was clear that we did not want to change this principle on the 30th day, because all the procedures were set in such a way as to simply agree on 30 days in contracts and then all the procedures could be carried out during that period, and we had to ensure that, for this year, the procedures that relate in particular to investments, particularly on construction, were not delayed. At this point, the average payment period, which was calculated last week, is 33 days, with some last year's contracts setting a 60-day deadline still in force. What you say very often is that the state has not been a mercenary for more than a year is no longer a practice. The country is a very good mercenary, and it adheres largely to its own hands. Last year, too, when 30 and 60 days were still in force, the average payment period was 45 days, meaning that we are working on a combination of investment contracts and contracts that were for goods and services, so that the state did not infringe to a greater extent its payment deadlines. We do not believe that this information has occurred on municipal budgets and on indirect budgetary users, which we have some direct information about, and that is why we wanted to settle issues with indirect budgetary users with this amendment of the law in order for them to be covered by the same solution. There we went to a solution up to 30 days because payment procedures are significantly different with the indirect budgetary user than at the level of the country where we have centralised accounting and, of course, the procedures are a little longer. We have information that some indirect budgetary users are also paying within more than 60 days to negotiate in contracts also for 90-day payment periods and so on, which is what we are trying to prevent with this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u86	Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. See, I read that the builders doubt the success of government measures to address them and, among other things, the builders suggest to the state that they finally begin to respect the 30-day payment period. This is suggested by the State, the local community, public institutions, etc. Your Honor, how can you tolerate this exposed issue of payment non-discipline so that state authorities violate the law? Paying non-discipline has always been a problem in Slovenia. All governments have done so and all governments have had such and different successes, such and different failures. However, payment non-discipline has recently been extremely problematic. I do not want to mention to you cases that individuals have even taken their lives because they have been in this chain of payment disciplines and have not been able to settle their obligations to employees, as they have always done. What I'm trying to say is that right now, there's a paydiscipline, and I can call it an exposed problem. Therefore, the State's efforts should be exposed to this. But not to tolerate violations of existing deadlines. Looks like your hands are breaking. And if they are violated by the municipalities, it would probably be true - the Ministry of Finance has the power to control them, it has a supervisory role over local communities. It has, of course, if not otherwise, through budgetary inspection and appropriate institutions. I have not yet observed a single report by the Court of Auditors, which would go in this direction and determine the payment deadlines of the municipalities, but not to speak of various institutions and so on. I therefore believe that the problem lies in the solutions that this law introduces to some old practice and that it is even evident to Parliament that it has adopted something that the Ministry of Finance did not want and did not intend. That, therefore, the proposal for the last novel of the ZJF meant a 30th day payment deadline, not a 30-day payment period. I do not underestimate this Parliament and well knows what it has accepted, although we have already proposed a shorter payment period in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And once again, why can't you cut this stiffness to shorten the payment deadline to 15 days? So that we can go across from an economy that suffers a lot. The outstanding obligations of the Slovenian economy, which also stem from the extension of the payment deadlines, as well as of such a country's payment deadline, are increasing. Here is a graph showing that in the last year, payment failure or unpaid obligations of legal persons in Slovenia has increased twice as much. I want to say that this is something that has escalated over the last period and that we would therefore need a more effective solution. Once again, I hope, Members, that it is not really sworn what the Government thinks and wants to have a payment period of 30 days. That it's important all the time, too, what our opinions are. And I ask you whether you think the country's payment deadline is day 30, given the current problem in Slovenia with payment non-discipline, real solution or not. I don't think so, so we suggest 15 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u88	Ma'am mag. The stoner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u89	Your Honor! We don't deny in the government that payment non-discipline is a problem. However, you do not say that the country is in strict breach of payment deadlines. That's not true. I told you that the average payment period is in the first two months and a half for 33 days. How can you conclude from this that the State is in breach of payment deadlines? We'll give you complete information on the country's payment deadlines. We will prepare information in the Government and you will see that the state is not in breach of payment deadlines or, I am not saying that there is no violation, but that it does not violate them to the extent that you represent them here to violate them. However, as regards the possibility of the state and the control of the state over municipalities, the State does not have the possibility of overseeing municipalities, except in the work of direct transfer, investment, for example, from the State budget for any specific project. In all other cases, only the Court of Auditors shall supervise the municipality. Why not ask the mayor for a payment report and see what the mayor is doing or the municipal administration is doing to make a visa to pay their obligations? Let everyone do their job. The country and the municipality are two levels. And the state does not have an opportunity to intervene because it would otherwise violate the rules or autonomy of the municipalities. And the length of the payment deadlines by the state. Even the European Directive, which is in the process of adoption, provides for a 30-day payment period, as all countries in the world estimate that this is the period within which all the necessary controls required for the public finances system are to be carried out. And we are not giving up or implementing this directive here before it is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u90	Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u91	Dear Secretary of State, how do you know the state is in breach of payment deadlines? It's from the economy. During the first proposals, the economy indicated that the State, the local community, should respect the 30-day payment deadline for construction works. That's the first requirement of builders. And I just read that. You're saying it's not true, I'm asking you why you didn't post a denial against these obvious, if you say so, economic failures. Once again, I still believe in the economy, it has always turned out that it had more accurate data than the state. That's one thing. Second thing. You quoted the EU's payment deadline requirements as 30 days. So what are you setting 30 days for? If the regulation so far is in line with and in line with a recommendation from the European Union, then keep at least this and you go on day 30, that is to say within the limit, at the extreme point of this day. I think that's bad. I think that it is bad and I do not have data on whether the problem of payment non-discipline is reflected so dramatically in the EU as in Slovenia. This problem is probably everywhere, but I don't know if it's escalated as much over the last period as it is with us. Therefore, please do not resort to any general solutions that may be good for some country, but not for some. That is why I think it would be useful in Slovenia to reduce the country's payment deadlines to 15 days. That is why we propose this amendment. Not only countries, direct budget users, but also indirect budget users. We believe that this would be a necessary step. I am confident that within a 15-day period all controls necessary to avoid any abuse of payment can also be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u92	Ma'am mag. Stoner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u93	Mr Vizjak, we have respected this initiative of the economy in the preparation of this law on the implementation of the budget. The first one has already been adopted, and we have set a 30-day deadline, and we are now supplementing it because we have not covered indirect budgetary users, and we are therefore looking forward to improving these results. If you think there are violations, I would be very happy if you could tell me specific cases to send a budget inspection there.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u94	I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 4, so I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PUBLIC PARTNERSHIP LAW, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members, with first-signed William Rezman. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Chappić, a member of the Committee, for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is true that she was first proposed by her colleague Renata Brunskole, but for the sake of restraint, I will do it for her. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 15th meeting. Ten. 3. 2010 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public-Private Partnership, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members, with the first signed by William Rezman, with a proposal for a short-term hearing, endorsed by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 53rd meeting. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments to Article 2 of the proposal. In addition, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which considers that the amendment to Article 42 of the Public Procurement Act in cases of concession for the conduct of a public economic service can only apply to persons governed by public law solely by the State or municipality. Since such conduct is not permissible or presupposes the application of the Public Procurement Act, the proposed amendment is not even necessary. At the same time, such an order is defined only in the legal practice of EU courts. At the same time, the Government does not approve the second amendment or extension of the transitional period for the legal arrangements of concession relations between the private public service operator and the public sector, not least on the basis of the assessment that the multi-layered issue of the winding-up of resources in management is not being addressed. In conclusion of the opinion, the Government of the proposal in question takes into account the risk that the proposed amendment would likely constitute a violation of EU law, it does not support. In the context of additional working material, the Committee took note of the proposal for an amendment to the Committee by the first-signed proposer, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service by the Commission of the State Economic Council, which supports the proposal, of the two proposals of the Chamber of Municipal Economy, within the framework of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, of the opinion of the Government with the list of municipalities which have problems with the implementation of the law in question, and of the opinion of the trade union [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , equity companies. [[...]] At the meeting of the Committee, the first-signed proposer highlighted the basic ambition of the solutions put forward, which are in the engagement of private capital, while at the same time representing the public interest. In terms of content, both solutions submitted essentially represent a necessary correction of the legal basis for concessions which, as a local community, has clearly demonstrated the practice under the basic law, has not yet been able to implement. At the same time, the proper implementation of the solutions offered by the profession is also more appropriate than the non-acceptance of the text. In the context of the general presentation of the rejection opinion, the representative of the Government drew attention to the specific treatment of infrastructure when introducing new accounting standards, since the municipal infrastructure is either passed on by ownership to the public service provider or is leased, which both implies a new formulation of relations between key entities. There is a need for a new regime in this area already this year, and it makes no sense to extend the deadlines under the solutions submitted. On these grounds, the members of the Committee, as a debater by the Chamber of the Municipal Economy, discussed the proposal for a decision that the law was not suitable for further consideration, presented different views and opinions and established certain dilemmas. At the conclusion of the debate, the Committee adopted a decision by majority vote: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Private Partnership is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents, Mr Willi Rezman, for an introduction to the position of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. In early February, Members and Members of Parliament proposed a law to deal with the short-term procedure so that they could have it before 7 p.m. 3. The law has been adopted and would therefore not diminish the legal basis for the work of certain municipal companies, with a view to providing this legal basis and to extending the period required for adaptation. This is the Law on Public-Private Partnership, adopted in 2006, at the end of this year, which allowed for greater private capital engagement also in order to resolve public interests, which has also set particularly strict conditions for this. In our discussions so far, we have found that about 50 or more congregations have failed to meet these conditions. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a change and a complement. We propose one supplement, namely the addition of Article 42, which now says that a public-private partnership operator can only be selected on the basis of a public tender, unless the law provides otherwise. So this "except" already implies the possibility that things will happen differently than from a direct lecture to understand. So the law allows for exceptions. Our proposal is that this exception be explicitly registered in the law, as section 42 of the law provides. However, we believe that this can be achieved in such a way as to introduce as the second point of this Article a dictatorship that "the invitation to tender is not mandatory when exceptions to the public tender obligation allow for public procurement rules in the water, energy, transport and postal fields." The section has equipped us with data to enable European Union law as well, and a number of countries have also introduced the specifics of the Directives. The two directives are the ones that make this possible. The first is the Directive on procurement procedures and the second is the Directive on public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal fields. Other countries, therefore, also know the exceptions. The second is the amendment to Article 143, which now requires that the invitation to tender be made within one year and that the contract be concluded and concluded within a maximum period of three years. As we have said, some 50 or more entities have failed to meet these conditions and we propose that this deadline be extended to five years. If I abandon all the other professional debates we have had in this regard, let me mention or repeat the position of the Government, which in the last sentence, as correctly quoted, has pointed out that it is at risk of being frustrated by the European Union and therefore does not support, it does not take responsibility for the possible adoption of such a law in the National Assembly. It should also be said that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or the Chamber of Municipal Economy fully supported our proposal. At the same time, the Commission for the Economy of the State Council, which decided unanimously on this. What do we really want with the proponents and proponents of this law? Firstly, in order to provide a legal basis for the execution of activities in a manner that was possible before the entry into force of the law, for those who have not yet been able to sign the concession contracts. Second, to allow additional time for adjustment. Thirdly, in order to avoid any potential threat to the economic activities of individual companies, in order to avoid possible actions, possible judicial proceedings and related costs, or even job losses, as some of the letters sent to us have pointed out. We therefore propose that the National Assembly conclude in a different manner than the majority vote decided by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and thus allow the procedure to be returned to the debate, to the Committee, to the labour force, and, we hope, to the next meeting of the National Assembly, where we hope this amendment and supplementation will also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u98	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As has already been said in both presentations before me, the Government does not support this law for two reasons. The first reason is that we believe that the proposed amendment to Article 42 could lead to a breach of European rules. It is true that the Directives themselves and the primary legal acts of the European Community do not specify what the so-called "in-house" relationship is and, in this sense, it is also not possible to find a specific provision that would be contrary to such a solution. We believe, however, that the judgments of the European Court of Justice, which have in particular ruled that, as the so-called "in-house" relationship that is capable of being carried out without a call for tender, only treats the relationship when we have two entities in the game where the contracting entity is fully controlled by the entity that will be the contractor. As regards the last amendment to Article 143 of the Law, the Government considers that, in fact, a relatively long period of time has been made available for public tendering to carry out concessions, that there is in fact no serious reason to extend this period. Even after the responses of some municipalities to the Ministry of Finance, this is not a widespread problem. One congregation approached us with questions to clarify the problem. We feel that it would be appropriate to remain under an unaltered law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Good-bye to the Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnareva. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree that the issue under consideration is an interesting, serious topic and should be discussed in detail. However, we do not fully agree that this is being resolved in the proposed way by amending the law in the public-private partnership, because of the first steps, of the first initiatives of the Indicians, which are certainly positive, the necessary solutions, but a number of reflections have been shown in the second direction that Slovenia can, by violating European legislation in this area if it adopts such a solution, suffer certain financial consequences. As shown in the proposal for a law, it is essential to extend the period of the so-called transitional period referred to in Article 143 of the current law, in which undertakings carrying out public service and having been granted special and exclusive rights directly, and because they are not exclusively owned by the public sector, are required to obtain the right of regulated activities in a public tender. By amending the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Law on Public and Private Partnership, the applicants therefore propose that the three-year period in force be extended by two years, thus allowing for a five-year transitional period for the legal arrangements of concessions between the private public service operator and the public sector. In our view, this is unnecessary on the one hand, since we estimate that the three - year period was sufficient and fortunately, and it is good that most of the congregation has followed this course and procedures have been carried out. The government also states that they did not detect a large number of municipalities facing this problem. And we agree with that. We also received one letter from such a municipality in our parliamentary group, and there are some other initiatives of an interested company from a particular part of Slovenia. The proposers in the bill also propose amendments to the definition of exceptions to the public procurement rules. At this point, at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we agree with the Government's opinion that an intervention in the field of exceptions would constitute a breach of European Community law, since it is already the case in the Court of Justice that the award of concessions or other special and exclusive rights without a call for tender is possible only if the concessionaire is exclusively owned by the public. The applicable Law on Public-Private Partnership also provides that in the case of a public procurement relationship, rules governing the field of procurement shall apply, taking into account the judgments of the EU court which provide that exceptions are possible, but only in cases where the contract is awarded to an entity which is exclusively owned by the public. However, in the case of private capital, such exemptions must not and cannot be made. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we agree that this issue can be dealt with mainly with in a broader conceptual way, for example, why companies exclusively owned by the public are exempted from competitive action. This can be one of the key issues that goes beyond today's debate. At the consultations, it was noted that this proposal for majority support in the National Assembly would probably not be, and also for those who have not yet been able to resolve this important issue, there is virtually nothing lost. The advice would be to continue the proceedings and where undertakings providing this service are not owned by the majority of the public, they will be forced to tender and choose the best bidder as soon as possible. The advice from this city, if possible, would be to do so as soon as possible, speed up procedures, because EU control is not expected to come today or tomorrow. However, those who will then be caught in a violation will certainly have a significant advantage as they will have a strong argument that the procedures are being carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public-Private Partnerships is intended to try to remedy some of the minor shortcomings of legislation that are intended to be identified in practice but not to interfere with the very purpose of the basic law. The proposal was thus proposed to amend Articles 42 and 143 of the Law on Public Private Partnership. The proposal for amendments to Article 42 of the ZJP refers to exceptions where the obligation to publish a tender does not have to be taken into account. The proposals relate in particular to the so-called "in-house" contracts defined in Article 17 of the Public Procurement Act and Article 19 of the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services. Those legislative frameworks define these contracts as contracts concluded between one or more contracting entities and one or more economic operators over whose operations these contracting entities have control comparable to that of the internal organisational units of the contracting authority. In doing so, the condition must be met that economic operators conclude contracts taking into account the provisions of this Act even if they are not contracting entities themselves and that the offer price is equal to or lower than the prices on the market. It's a law quote. In the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, the text of Article 42 does not need to be amended as the applicable law of the CAP in Article 27(2) provides that, in the case of a public procurement relationship, public procurement rules shall apply, while also taking into account the judgments of the Court of Justice of the EU which provide that the so-called "in-house" is only possible in cases where the contract is awarded to an entity which is exclusively owned by the public. The amendment to Article 42 would, in effect, allow a mixed ownership, both public and private, without a specified share, to enable the company to obtain a concession without a contract. It is also worth drawing attention to the opinion of the Government referring to the judgment and jurisprudence of the Courts of Justice of the European Union when it comes to the supervision of the concessionaire who is supposed to be comparable to the supervision of the public service. Neither this Article nor the other Articles define when it is possible to grant a concession without an invitation to tender, taking into account, in particular, the capital share of the concessionaire, the composition of the decision-making bodies and the scope of the powers vested in the Management Board, all in the interest of allowing a decisive impact on the concessionaire's strategic objectives and on important decisions. The supervision should be similar to that exercised by the co-indicator when the concessionaire is exclusively owned by the public. Article 143 of the Law on Public-Private Partnership in the third paragraph provides for one or a maximum transitional period of three years, provided that no concession contract has been concluded for reasons on the part of the founder. This was mainly the time when owners should be transformed into public undertakings, into public ownership structures or to make public tenders. This deadline expired on 7 March when operators were able to carry out an economic public service in the manner they carried out when the Public-Private Partnership Act was implemented. According to the Group of Social Democrats, there was sufficient time for many municipalities to align this situation with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act and also the Public-Private Partnership Act. The proposaler's claim that insistence on a three-year transitional period would interfere with the fundamental principle of equality before the law, since some similar companies in the past have obtained a simpler concession and were founders of these companies by public entities, and today's ownership can be either public or private or mixed. On the contrary, the extension of this date for two years constitutes an inequality to all those who, in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Article 143 of the Public-Private Partnership Act, have already made public tenders and have probably obtained concessions in a market way. The Law on Public-Private Partnership in Article 143 provides that the concessionaire must publish a public tender for the selection of the concessionaire within one year of the entry into force of the CFSP even when they carry out the economic public service of that economic company which has been redesigned from public undertakings or from social enterprises on the basis of previous rules or established as economic companies or other legal entities and has been awarded the concession for the execution of an economic public service without a call for tender. These provisions also apply to public undertakings in which private capital has entered, since in this case companies have lost the status of a public undertaking. By amending Article 42 when a new paragraph has been added, as well as by amending Article 143 and extending the period of two years, it would allow those undertakings which now have private capital in their ownership structure, and those which are mostly co-owners of companies in different percentages, but are insufficient to be able to fully monitor and thus enable them to obtain a concession without a call for a longer period. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u105	Dear colleagues, others present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which has been tabled by a group of Members, with first-signed William Rezman, will be supported by or voted against by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in the parliamentary procedure, so that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. It's basically two relatively small changes. The first concerns the harmonisation of the Public Private Partnership Act with public procurement legislation. It is, therefore, that the provisions already in force in both public procurement laws are also adopted and decidedly recorded in amendments to the Public-Private Partnership Act. And the second amendment is a change in the time limit within which the current contractor may carry out an economic public service in the manner that it did when this law was implemented. The current Law on Public-Private Partnership provides that there can no longer be private capital in public companies and that transitional and final provisions have regulated a transitional period of three years in which new concessions with companies transformed from public undertakings are to be concluded. In practice, the transformation of these companies has proved to be more complex, so that concession contracts could not be concluded on the basis of new tendering for the selection of concessionaires within the deadline. Today, we have heard that it is about 50 congregations that have begun procedures, but for various reasons they have not been able to complete them within the deadline. To avoid that the implementation of individual economic services would be illegal or to avoid the activities of individual municipalities being counted illegal, this proposal is a law proposing that this deadline for the conclusion of new concession contracts should be extended from three to five years. The current Law on Public-Private Partnership in its 142nd Article also provides that concessions shall be granted for the conduct of an economic public service without invitation to tender to companies where there are no capital injections of private law in those companies. This has created an uneven position of mixed property companies, even though they only have a minimal private capital injection. These companies must re-apply to the invitation to tender, regardless of the fact that they are already performing this public service, and it is also likely that they will not be chosen for this reason alone. In cases where companies owned by local communities are concerned, this would also mean that local communities would be indirectly harmed. For this reason, we will vote against this proposal for a decision and propose that this law continue in the legislative procedure. We also believe that there are no legitimate fears that as a result of this extension, Slovenia would be penalised by Europe in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public-Private Partnership is short, but an ambitious project which, for the first time, wants to amend Article 42 of the current law in such a way as to enable the selection of non-public-private partnership operators to be possible, contrary to the case law or decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which makes it clear that the award of concessions or other special exclusive rights without a call for tender is possible only if the concessionaire is exclusively owned, not in the case of so-called mixed property or the presence of private capital. And another ambition of the proposed law: it wants to extend for two years, that is, from three years to five years, a transitional period during which a public tender for the award of a concession for the execution of an economic public service in cases where concessions have been awarded without a call for tender or where companies implementing concessions have been transformed from public social enterprises on the basis of previous regulations or are privately or mixed in ownership. The argument of time distress - by the way, this transitional period has already expired on 7 March - which seeks to justify the necessity of adopting the proposed amendments to the law or Article 142, does not hold serious judgment and serves in some way to cover up the second primary ambition contained in the amendment of Article 42 above, to avoid a public invitation or otherwise privileged position of certain public entities. In view of this and the fact that, as from 1 January of this year, Slovenian accounting standards have been amended, which abolish the Institute of Resources in Management and indirectly interfere with the scope of the implementation of economic public services, the proposal cannot be supported or we will support the decision of the home labour body, so that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u109	Your Honor, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. The purpose of this law's proposal is two. Establishment of the Public Private Partnership Act with public procurement legislation in the workplace, which provides for exceptions to the public procurement obligation. The other one. In addition, an extension of the period within which undertakings that perform public services and have been awarded concessions directly without invitation to tender in a public tender must obtain the right to carry out regular activities. In particular, the proposed solution would allow for the necessary harmonisation of concession relations which some local communities have not yet been able to implement. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law because it says that there is a risk that such changes would violate EU law. However, it is important to note that the proposal for a law has both advantages and disadvantages that we cannot simply define in a uniform way as a danger of violating EU law. While some of the Government's arguments need to be accepted, this does not mean that the law's proposal in the next procedure would not be reshapeable in order to address these dilemmas while helping to resolve some of the problems that are already evident at the moment. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore oppose the proposed decision because we want the proposal of the law to return to its original working body and complement it by satisfying both the European Union's legislation and the problems we are facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The amendments and additions to the Law on Public-Private Partnership are aimed at regulating, correcting, with two articles, the illegal situation in which, following the expiry of the transitional period at the beginning of this month, a number of municipalities or companies that carry out public services mainly in the field of utilities. According to the list of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia – which is also found to be not entirely relevant – such municipalities are about a quarter of those in Slovenia who have problems with the transformation of public enterprises and the regulation and execution of ownership and status structures and entitlements within the deadline set by the previous government and which has actually begun to run at the same time as the taking over of the mayoral mandates this year. It is true that the situations concerning the diversity and complexity of the transformation of public enterprises into companies across municipalities are very specific. However, if, in practice, the implementation of what the Law on Public-Private Partnership for Economic Services had laid down at the end of 2006 was so very questionable, today there would not be just a few ten municipalities such that, despite a three-year possible period of adjustment, it would not have been possible to regulate the law in force, but would have been the whole 210 municipalities or most of them. Nor would it wait after our assessment by means of a proposal for legislative changes by the end of the transitional period, but those who are supposed to have problems could have pointed to this earlier and possibly propose interventions in terms of legislative changes. However, as indicated by the Government, only three municipalities and one company have turned to the Ministry of Finance in relation to the issue in question, but they are not on the list of municipalities where there is a problem with the implementation of the economic public service due to the existing law – which can only mean one thing: that they have managed to regulate the public-private partnership area as a matter of law. The fact is that non-support will potentially have certain consequences in the implementation of economic public services, and, on the other hand, we can expect negative consequences also in the event of an extension of the transitional period, because they would violate European Union law. Because in the DeSUS Group we fear that the purpose of the law is not what it appears to be on the outside, and because we doubt that, despite the possible support of the law, we will not be able to resolve matters properly within an additional time frame, we will not support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues! By means of a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public-Private Partnership following a reduced procedure, the legislator seeks to remedy or correct minor shortcomings in the legislation that have been proven in practice by experience. In particular, it is a matter of harmonising the law with public procurement legislation and achieving consistency in the standardisation of public procurement institutions in legislation and amending the deadlines for the implementation of the economic public service. As already defined in Articles 12 to 19 of this Act, these are the foundations of a public-private partnership system based on the principles of equality, transparency, proportionality, competition, procedural autonomy, responsibility and cooperation. We are talking about amending or supplementing the two articles of the Act in question, namely paragraphs 42 and 143. As we see, the Legislative and Legal Service has certain comments on the amendments to Article 143, this is to the provision on time limits where the amendment should be fixed by nomotechnical means. Neither does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia seem to support these changes in this 143rd Article. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has justified its rejection or support of the proposed amendments to the Law on Public-Private Partnership with the existence of a risk, a violation of the rules of the European Union. Proof again, now chronically typical of Slovenian servility, even when it comes to such petty desires for change. The proposal is intended to amend or supplement Article 42, which speaks of the non-necessity of a call for tender for the selection of operators in cases where exceptions to the public tendering obligation or the contract notice for the selection of the contractor lay down rules on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. Article 42 provided that the public-private partnership operator should be selected, unless otherwise provided for in the law, on the basis of a public invitation to tender, which should also be published on the websites. Thus, the Law on Public-Private Partnership itself provides for the exclusion of public tender by individual laws. The second paragraph of Article 42 of the Act in question represents the drafting, the completion of the existing provisions of this Article, taking full account of the legal fact that it is the normative arrangements for the procurement of those areas mentioned above that are strictly restrictive. The procurement rules themselves are well aware of many exceptions to the public tender obligation that can be applied to the conclusion of public-private partnerships. On the basis of some well-founded arguments, as well as individual discussions at the meeting of the home working body, we will support this proposal of the Slovenian National Party in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTING OF THE BREAKDOWN AND EMPLOYMENT IN BLACK, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With this law on the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Work and on Employment, we do not interfere with the substance of this law in terms of prevention of work and employment in black, but it is an urgent matter, namely to comply with the European Directive, with the Directive of the European Parliament on services in the internal market. The Act, which we are supplementing, now provides that work in black is considered to be carried out if a foreign undertaking does not operate in the Republic of Slovenia through branches or carries out an activity without appropriate authorisation. This requirement is contrary to the Directive of the European Parliament on services in the internal market, as it implies unequal treatment of companies in this area. This Directive provides that Member States should not make provision for the start-up of an activity or the provision of services subject to a system of authorisations, except under specific conditions laid down by the Directive itself. It also provides that Member States shall not impose restrictions on the provider’s right to choose between a principal or secondary seat, in particular the obligation of the provider to have a head office in their territory, or restrictions on the freedom to choose a seat as an agency, stand or branch, in order to start or perform an activity in their territory. While the issue of the Services Directive is a specific Law on Services in the Internal Market, which has already been adopted by the National Assembly and will enter into force on 30 March 2010, it is also necessary to adapt and harmonise relevant legislation accordingly. At the same time, allow me to say that at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs we are already preparing more extensive amendments to this law on prevention of work and employment in black, with a view to improving its effectiveness and effectiveness in detecting black work and strengthening the cooperation of these services. These amendments will be submitted to the National Assembly this year. So what we are now proposing is to avoid individual companies from abroad from suing the Republic of Slovenia for inadequate restrictions imposed by our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Ljub Germić to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 14th session, on 11. 3. 2010 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a proposal for a short-term law. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 53rd meeting, on 19. On 2 this year, it decided that the draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment should be dealt with in black following a reduced procedure. The Committee was informed by the Legislative and Legal Service of 24. 2. 2010 which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and did not make any comments. In its introduction, the representative of the applicant explained in the supplementary explanation that the proposal for a law was necessary to comply with the European Union acquis, namely Directive 126/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market which entered into force on 28 December 2009. With regard to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the need to clarify the paragraph concerning the Swiss Confederation, the representative of the Government said that it was in accordance with the concluded agreement of 21. 6. 1999 where it is stipulated that the Swiss Confederation should also be included in the European Union area. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained, in the light of the Government's explanation, that he did not have any further comments on this basis and did not provide any additional explanation for the written opinion. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law is only about harmonising the law with the EU Directive, the members and members of the committee did not discuss the proposal for a law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. No amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body. The Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Work and on Employment be adopted in a draft text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marijan Križman has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u119	Good afternoon. Honourable Vice-President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Labour and on Employment. The proposed law brings only one substantive supplement and is necessary in order to adapt Slovenian legislation to the legal order of the European Union. In this case, it is imperative to align with the provisions of the Working Time Directive, as we are already a little late. The law in force provides that work shall be deemed to be in black if a foreign undertaking does not operate in the Republic of Slovenia through branches or without appropriate authorisation. After the adoption of a proposal for a law, an undertaking established in a Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation providing services shall no longer be considered a foreign undertaking in accordance with the law governing services in the internal market. The government also announces in the introduction of the bill this year major changes, additions to the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. We expect that there will then be an opportunity for an in-depth debate on this content. As we say, we will support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u121	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective of the proposed amendment of the Law on Job Prevention and Employment is to comply with European legislation, namely the Internal Market Services Directive. The law provides in its current form that work shall be deemed to be carried out in black if a foreign undertaking does not carry out activities in the Republic of Slovenia through branches or carries out an activity without appropriate authorisation. That requirement is contrary to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market which entered into force 28. 12. 2009 The Directive will be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the Law on Services in the Internal Market, the proposal for a law was adopted in February 2010, but it is necessary to transpose its principles fully into the sectoral rules. The proposed amendment of the law removes the requirement for the establishment of branches for all undertakings established in a Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation providing services in accordance with the law governing services in the internal market. In 2010, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing more extensive amendments to the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, which will define this area in more detail and achieve greater efficiency. However, in order to comply with the law of the European Union, this law needs to be amended as soon as possible, since companies established in the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation have the opportunity to lodge a complaint against the Republic of Slovenia for discriminatory treatment. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a novel of the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in the Black. It aligns the Slovenian acquis in this area with the adopted European legislation, in particular the Internal Market Services Directive. The law currently in force also provides that it is also considered to be black work, that a foreign company does not operate in Slovenia through branches or carries out an activity without an appropriate authorisation. This provision is inconsistent with the Directive which entered into force on 28 December 2009. While the Directive will be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the Law on Services in the Internal Market. In order to fully transfer its content, it is also necessary to adopt the novel which is before us. It removes the requirement to establish branches for all undertakings established in a Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation which provides services in accordance with the law governing services in the internal market. Black employment, discrimination in the workplace, non-compliance with labour law are at the moment areas where all competent institutions in the country should be strongly conceived and adequately addressed. This is not just from the point of view of harmonising Slovenian legislation with European law. Recently, unfortunately, we can talk about Slovenian specifics, as we ourselves have been able to monitor more sad stories of workers, not only those employed in black, but also those of domestic workers, especially foreign workers, who are supposed to be regularly employed in accordance with Slovenian legislation. In the Group of Members, we really believe that all Slovenian policies, including all supervisory and judicial authorities, should ensure the legality and ensure that everyone is responsible for any illegal conduct in the field of labour and employment and will also be responsible for their violations. We are also convinced that one of the priorities of Slovenian policy at the exit from the economic crisis should be to create such a state of spirit in society that will increase and optimize the quality of life, increase the quality of human relations and increase the well-being of individuals and society as a whole. Undoubtedly, there is also work legislation that should inspire confidence in all workers, which will have a stimulating effect on the whole work and development process. On 18 December 1990, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the International Convention for the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and Their Family Members, which officially entered into force on 1 April 2003. It sought to ensure the fundamental human rights that individual Member States must ensure. The Convention, however, became a binding document in 2003, when the 20th party became Guatemala. In all of this, we therefore expect Slovenia to ratify the Convention as soon as possible and thus take another step towards creating an optimum situation in this area. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the SLS Group, we will support amendments to the law because they are necessary to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. However, since there is so much talk in these days about auto-transport activities, in the parliamentary group we hope that the law is not in conflict or that it does not destroy the law currently under consideration on road transport because we also regulated permits for foreign motorists. We supported it in the hope that it will really have a positive impact on the operation of motorists as it tries to prevent the unfair competition of foreign carriers who carry out transport or load goods in the Slovenian space without the appropriate permits issued or who do not meet other appropriate conditions. There is a need, in our opinion, for significantly greater surveillance. In addition, we believe that it would be good to limit our work in black with additional measures, since, despite the reduction after 2007, there are still too many infringements that cause injustices and problems in those who work in accordance with the legislation in force. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will, as we say, support the completion of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. At the previous 14th regular session, we discussed the Internal Market Services Act, which implements the European Directive on services in the internal market and where the provision of services has a particular impact on a number of regulations, this novelty is one of those which will adapt domestic legislation in that Directive and in the general sense of prevention of work and employment in black. The proposal to supplement the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black is subject to an amendment to Article 3 which provides when the performance of an activity is considered to be black work. After the fourth indent, it shall be considered as black work if the activity is carried out through a foreign company and this activity does not have an established branch or appropriate authorisation in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to avoid actions by undertakings established in the European Community, the EEC and the Swiss Confederation, the text should be aligned with the Internal Market Services Directive. This was done by the applicant in a way that suggests that the activity of a foreign company in our country should not be regarded as black work if it does not have an open branch, and of course this applies to those undertakings established in the Member State of the European Union, the EEC and the Swiss Confederation. However, companies from third countries will, of course, still be subject to this restriction. The proposal to amend the law will be supported by Members of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again. Complementing the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black means harmonising Slovenian domestic legislation with the Directive of the European Union and the Council on Services in the Internal Market and we will therefore support it in the Liberal Democracy Club. Of course, at the LDS Club, we are aware that the regulation and prevention of work on the black side is one of the very important tasks of this government, so we also support the decision of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which, in its normative plan for this year, provides for large-scale amendments to the Law on Labour Prevention and Employment in black so that this area is regulated as well. However, there are changes to be made immediately, as the changes introduce non-discriminatory treatment of service providers when they come from the countries of the European Union, the European Economic Community or the Swiss Confederation, by removing the requirement to set up branches for all service providers in accordance with the law governing services in the internal market. In view of the content of the proposed amendment and the amendment of the law, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL DENMARK FUND, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ma'am mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members! The amendments and additions to the Law on Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund bring the following amendments and additions. The first concerns that in the law we tried to better regulate relations between the Bank of Slovenia and the state budget when it comes to relations with the International Monetary Fund. According to the Bank of Slovenia, these issues were too loose in the existing law and it was therefore necessary to redefine the responsibilities and responsibilities of one of the institutions, which is why this is now more explicitly defined. However, they are exactly the same as they have been in practice so far. Another novelty brought by law is the regulation of the level of mutual cooperation between the state of Slovenia and the International Monetary Fund. Given that a new form of cooperation between the International Monetary Fund and its members has been established in practice in the form of bilateral agreements, we are providing a legal basis for this law so that Slovenia can also conclude a bilateral agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Of course, this does not mean that it is decided, but it gives an opportunity. It is true, however, that this year it is envisaged that such a bilateral agreement with the International Monetary Fund will also be concluded because it has already concluded eleven bilateral agreements with it and the next eleven with all other members are expected to provide for this legal act for the conclusion of this Agreement this year. The third novelty brought by law is a new way of appointing the Deputy Governor of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund. While the current legal regime provided that the vice-governor is acting as Deputy Governor of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund, the current law provides that the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia may appoint any person to this function. And the latest news, which is reflected primarily in Article 9 of the Act, relates to the harmonisation of this law with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, with the European Central Bank and with the Treaty establishing the European Community, which has not been amended for a very long time, so these novelties have not yet been incorporated into its text. If the financial consequences of this law are touched briefly, then it is fair to say that the law itself does not have financial implications and opens up the possibility of potential financial consequences that could arise from the conclusion of a bilateral agreement in the long term. At this point, it is not envisaged that the conclusion of a bilateral agreement would have any financial implications because the capital available in the international monetary fund is large enough to cover all the needs of the next medium-term period. Any financial implications resulting from this and presented in more detail when a bilateral agreement is also presented could be taken into account in the next medium term. The direct financial implications are those already included in the 2010 and 2011 budget - EUR 1.6 million, and relate to the coverage of exchange rate differences and costs in exchange rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Mr Luke Jury to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Good-bye! At its 15th meeting, on 10 March 2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a proposal for a reduced procedure. At its 53rd meeting, the Committee of the President of the National Assembly adopted the hearing following a reduced procedure and, at the request of a group of Members, confirmed the nature of the procedure of 3 March 2010. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical context and made a concrete comment on Article 1 of the legislative proposal. On this basis, the drafting amendment to Article 1 was tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups within the time limit. In the supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the Government pointed out the main innovations presented by the text, namely, clarifying the obligations between the Bank of Slovenia and the State budget vis-à-vis the Fund to be met by the Bank of Slovenia, introducing the possibility of concluding a bilateral agreement with the Fund and amending the arrangements concerning the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Republic of Slovenia in the Fund. The remaining changes relate mainly to the necessary alignment with the existing ones, primarily with the European Union's legal acts which have not yet been introduced. Following a further presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the proposal for an amendment to the Committee followed the comments of the Service. In the discussion on the previously raised issues relating to financial obligations to the Fund on the basis of the proposal, it was clarified that the text of such obligations did not entail such obligations. Both the option to conclude a bilateral agreement and the financial obligations on this basis constitute only a potential obligation. Given the actual situation with regard to the capital exhaustion quota held by Slovenia in the Fund, it is unlikely that such a commitment would occur, but it is essentially the conduct, similar to that of the other members of the European Union. With regard to the burden of dividing the liabilities between the Bank of Slovenia and the State budget, however, it is a relatively low obligation affecting the State budget, primarily relating to the coverage of interest, currency risks or currency changes, which can be provided from current budgets in the coming years following the assessment. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, in accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which that amendment is incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u135	Once again, a nice greeting from my side. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that there are no legitimate substantive reasons for amending the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund. In addition, the financial consequences of this law are very vague and inconclusive. It is also unclear why the State in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia should reimburse the Bank of Slovenia for certain costs associated with its operation or related to the enforcement of this law. According to the Constitution, the Bank of Slovenia is independent, and in this National Assembly, when it is necessary to provide specific questions, specific answers regarding the exposure of individual banks to our financial system, I like to refer to it and the National Assembly, as the highest institution of the legislative branch in this country, very difficult to come up with relevant answers. Moreover, the reports we receive in the very beautiful Banka Slovenije are written on nice, likable paper. The statements we read in these papers say one thing, but the actual situation speaks something completely different. Last year we witnessed that the country wanted to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank within a few months, two months with 300 million euros, for which funds had already been made available in the budget for last year, and this did not happen. According to the Bank of Slovenia, there was no need for such a thing. Public statements also spoke of Nova Ljubljanska banka as a stable bank that does not need any additional recapitalisation. In recent days, we have read very, very strange information about this. This is one of the reasons why it is not good to deal with this law and not in this situation. The second reason is that in recent years, Banka Slovenije, despite favourable economic circumstances, has shown a loss in business. That it is a relatively well-coordinated institution in which more than four hundred people are employed and that even after Slovenia's entry into the European Monetary Union this number has not decreased, but has even increased, despite the fact that some important powers have been taken away. The investment policy pursued by Banka Slovenije is its sovereign right, and for that reason we do not see the need for taxpayers to contribute to the state budget through the way we have seen in this law to the recovery of bad decisions in the past at the Bank of Slovenia level, led by current Minister Mitja Gaspari. The Bank bought two Lehman Brothers bonds, from which it realised some ten million euros in losses. All of this will have to be covered someday. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we see no reason for the state budget, even though in the way we have it on the table today, in the International Monetary Fund Act, where it is a matter of taking on the responsibility of the budget to the Bank of Slovenia in order to contribute to the improvement of the financial situation. The Bank of Slovenia is independent. It is independent in its financial international policy and is also responsible for the results of its operations. For this reason, we leave the ruling coalition to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to decide on these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u137	Dear President, Government Representative, colleagues. Slovenia has been a member of the International Monetary Fund since 1993. At that time a law was passed in this assembly, which regulated matters of the succession of the Republic of Slovenia in it. Following the outbreak of the global economic crisis, its interconnection and connectivity, international coordination of economic policies was essential. In these circumstances, the International Monetary Fund has proposed and defined seven principles for a coordinated approach to exit strategies. In parallel, in March 2009, the Republic of Slovenia committed itself, at the end of the European Council, to participating in the provision of additional funds for the operation of the International Monetary Fund as part of the European Union's joint response to the global financial crisis. Such funds will be provided by Member States through bilateral agreements with the International Monetary Fund. In order to enable this intention, certain urgent amendments and additions to the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund must be adopted. The proposal for a law thus manages compliance with the provisions of the acts of the European Central Banking Institutions and the Treaty establishing the European Community. The presentation of the Republic of Slovenia in the Fund has been reorganized, which you have already warned about. The key solutions are those which specify the obligations between the Bank of Slovenia and the State Budget to the International Monetary Fund. In fact, the Bank of Slovenia’s obligations are being extended considerably, as they are not limited to the provision of funds to pay the quota. It is possible to conclude bilateral agreements with the Fund by means of the latest arrangements and the already limited conclusions of the European Council. It also addresses the problem of the so-called excessive financial exposure of Banka Slovenije, which could possibly result from the possibility of increasing the scope of existing instruments of the Fund. The Parliamentary Group will indeed support the complementary proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. The DeSUS Group supports the amendment under consideration, as it allows for a more precise definition of obligations between the Bank of Slovenia and the State budget in relation to the Fund and the broader possibility of concluding bilateral agreements between the Republic of Slovenia with the Fund - an additional 22 agreements are envisaged, the Republic of Slovenia will also be a signatory - the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund, which will be a new person who will be the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In addition, the provisions of the basic law are also aligned to other applicable rules. In short, the solutions proposed for Members of our Group are not disputed, so we will contribute our votes to this novel. On the contrary, we are not convinced of the opposition's apparent financial implications, since the proposaler's explanation makes it clear when the coverage or recovery would take place. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] funds from the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] This would only happen if the recipient country did not repay the Fund's accepted loan. However, this certainly takes into account the fact that in all these years of operation of the Fund - the International Monetary Fund was established in 1944 - and it has not yet happened that the recipient State would not recover the funds approved by the Fund. On this basis, with a high degree of certainty, we can believe that such costs will not arise for the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund, some facts and also questions on which we do not find the appropriate explanation are raised. The main issue is the definition of the obligation of the Bank of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia to the International Monetary Fund, since only membership in the Fund requires legal regulation and thus precise determination of the content of the obligation and its scope. In the framework of the European Council, the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to participating in the increase in the Fund's operating resources. So it is essentially about enabling Slovenia to provide funds for the operation of the fund. Among other things, it is about aligning the provisions of the current law with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, as well as with the Treaty establishing the European Community itself. As specified, Slovenia must arrange this immediately, it is said immediately. The question or ambiguity of bilateral agreements is raised. As a representative of the government, Mrs Kamnareva said at a meeting of the committee: "The second issue brought by the law is that, in addition to the already lost forms of cooperation between the state of Slovenia and the International Monetary Fund, we are opening the possibility for the State of Slovenia to conclude bilateral agreements or bilateral agreements with the International Monetary Fund. This form of cooperation began to take place last year." Well, despite a thorough review of the articles of this Act, there are no provisions on the conclusion of bilateral agreements. It is possible to find this explanation in an explanation, but the articles do not state it. As I have already mentioned, the Republic of Slovenia undertook, at the conclusion of the European Council meeting on 19 and 20 March 2009, to participate in the provision of additional funds for the operation of the International Monetary Fund as part of the EU's joint response to the global financial crisis. Is it true that such obligations stem from adopted international acts binding on Slovenia, but we can ask ourselves where Slovenia can satisfy these agreements, or with additional indebtedness, if, on the other hand, it is self-inflicted by the collapse of the health insurance system, by the collapse of the pension system? However, with regard to the increase in IMF funds, according to this fund, the G20 leaders agreed on 2 April 2009 in London, it is about a thousand billion U.S. dollars. Banka Slovenije participates in a financial transaction plan aimed at channelling funds to countries in financial difficulties under this law. In view of the financial crisis, an increased scope of the Fund's activities is expected. For Slovenia, this quota is EUR 295 million, according to our data, so it is expected to increase financial obligations for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. How the funds will be provided will probably tell us our financial ministry. On the basis of all that has been said in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we have decided to oppose the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a nice hello to you all. The main objective of the proposed law is to precisely demarcate the obligations owed to the International Monetary Fund of the Bank of Slovenia on the one hand and the Republic of Slovenia on the other. It was found that Article 7 of the Law in force did not provide for a clear, precise and precise identity of the grantor. This is one of the reasons why we make the story more clear, more transparent, more pure, that, of course, the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will be for this solution. The law also aligns the provision of the law, which is contrary to the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, the European Central Bank and the Treaty establishing the European Community, since this also aligns the amendment to the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Republic of Slovenia in the Fund. The objectives give rise to the main solution that changes the division of liabilities between the Bank of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, since the funds for the payment of liabilities to the Fund under the special drawing rights granted are provided by the Republic of Slovenia and the funds for the payment of the other liabilities to the Fund are provided by the Bank of Slovenia. In the area of the appointment of the Deputy Governor, however, there is a news that the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the International Monetary Fund will no longer be linked to the role of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and that the Deputy Governor of the Fund will simply be appointed by a person authorised by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia for this purpose. Since the law further limits obligations, eliminates inconsistencies and appoints a deputy governor in the International Monetary Fund, we will support the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund is necessary because of Slovenia's commitment in March 2009 to the European Council to contribute to the provision of additional funds for the operation of the International Monetary Fund as part of the European Union's joint agreement on the global financial crisis. Such funds are neither a regular quota nor a specific drawing rights, but will generally be provided by countries through bilateral agreements with the International Monetary Fund. In order to enable Slovenia to participate in the provision of funds for the operation of the Fund, it is necessary to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the current Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund, which will determine the extent and content of the obligations owed to the Fund by both the Bank of Slovenia on the one hand and the Republic of Slovenia on the other. This is certainly one of our commitments from membership in the International Monetary Fund. The basic amendment to this Act, or the content of this Act, is the addition of Article 7 of the first paragraph, which provides that the funds for the payment of the obligation to the Fund under the special drawing entitlements granted in the first and second divisions as provided so far in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia shall provide funds for the payment of other liabilities to the Fund. The latter thus assumes responsibility for the implementation of all other obligations to the Fund, including the implementation of the Cooperation Agreement in the Specific Loan Mechanism and in bilateral arrangements to be concluded on the basis of the commitment made by the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 March 2009. However, in the new third paragraph, the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to reimburse the Bank of Slovenia for the costs of interest differences, exchange rate differences, possible exchange risk protection and transaction costs incurred in the implementation of the obligation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is laid down. In this way, the law defines compensation for costs incurred by Banka Slovenije in the implementation of the obligation referred to in Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Act. In view of the possibility of excessive financial exposure to Banka Slovenije due to the increased use of existing instruments, a new fourth paragraph is added in Article 7, which provides that, irrespective of the third paragraph, Slovenia shall reimburse Banka Slovenije 50% of the costs referred to in the third paragraph resulting from the payment of quotas and participation in the financial transaction plan and the participation in the special drawing rights trading mechanism. With regard to the precise calculation of the contributions of individual EU members in order to provide additional resources to the Fund, it should be noted that this is not yet fully known. According to previous calculations, Slovenia is expected to cooperate with a contribution of approximately cca. 440 million euros. The actual scope of Slovenia's obligation at the time of the conclusion of the agreement between the EU Member States with the Fund will be guaranteed under Article 7(1) of the Act from the Bank of Slovenia. However, the considerations that have arisen in the opposition, in particular the criticism of the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is no funding available in the State budget, should be mentioned that this criticism is not true because the Republic of Slovenia must, in accordance with paragraph 4, provide the resources to cover 50% of the costs arising from the payment of the quota and participation in the financial transaction plan and the participation in the trading mechanism, with special drawing rights of EUR 620 000 per year. Therefore, it is not necessary to add funds to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, a contribution of EUR 440 million will be provided from the Bank of Slovenia's assets held by the European Central Bank. The SDS is also clear that there is a risk that the Republic of Slovenia should repay to the Bank of Slovenia the outstanding funds which the recipient State would not repay to the International Fund. There is a risk, but in the history of the International Fund there have been several countries in crisis that have been loaned money by the International Monetary Fund. However, on the basis of a loan reform, the International Monetary Fund does not provide them unconditionally in 2008. The requirements of the International Monetary Fund for the lending of money include the reduction of deficits and the implementation of structural reforms, which also reduced the risk of non-payment of loans to the International Monetary Fund. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 19. Period of the day - this is on the evocative proposal for a resolution on the strategy of the national security of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusic, for the opening presentation of the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for a new resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is a strategic, comprehensive, developmental document in the field of national security, which, in our opinion, is essential for the further development of different national security subsystems, the orientation of national security policy and also for ensuring the national security of our country in the broadest sense. With this document, we will replace a similar document, which was produced in 2001, and time has already far exceeded it. Let me stress only the key innovations in the new resolution. First, we have re-examined and evaluated the strategic interests of our country and the objectives of national security. We've updated the safety assessment. Then we re-evaluated and added new sources of threat and wrote or described our country's comprehensive response to all these sources of threat. We then adopted a so-called comprehensive approach to ensuring national security, taking into account the strategic and political documents of the European Union, NATO and the United Nations. We have already taken into account the adoption of the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters adopted by the National Assembly last year. We have taken into account the findings of the 2009 strategic review of the Defence Department, the strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions and other documents already adopted in the last period. Let me say that this resolution has been on the rise for quite some time, more than a year. It included all activities, various bodies, the professional public in the field of national security, and therefore we consider it to be an appropriate framework for the further development of the national security system and, in particular, as a basis for sectoral strategies, doctrinal documents. It also provides a good basis for regulatory, organisational and substantive regulation of individual issues of national security. The red thread in this resolution is the continuation of the development and modernisation of all national security subsystems, of course taking into account current security conditions, real resources and international obligations. As it is said, there is a broader range of sources of threats and risks and, therefore, policies to respond to all these sources of threats and risks are more than we have been accustomed to in the past or in the previous document. This document, which is proposed for adoption, is comparable to similar documents from European countries and is also comparable to assessments of the security environment, sources of threats and risks, as well as responses. Of course, we have taken into account all the specificities of our country and, of course, also the history of ensuring national security within our country. As an important way to ensure national security, we have highlighted in this document all the obligations arising from our membership in the European Union, NATO, the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Let me say that we need to adopt this document, it is necessary for the further planned upgrading of the national security system. And let me also say that on the home committee, the Defence Committee, with the additions adopted on this Committee, this document has been made even clearer and more precise. Dear assembly, I propose that a new resolution on the strategy of the national security Republic of Slovenia be supported and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Defence as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Jerovšk, Chairman of the Committee, for the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. The Defence Committee is at its 9th session. 3. 2010 discussed the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government for consideration. You have received an extensive report on the hearing, which I will take up within the time available. The Committee received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of 24. 2. 2010 and the opinions of the State Council and the Union of Slovenian Officers. As the Minister of Defence said in the introduction, this is one of the basic guiding, strategic documents covering the area of national security in a comprehensive and balanced manner. The resolution is focused on the future, sets out a strategy for the further provision and development of national security. It defines the national interest, sources of threats and risks and responses of the Republic of Slovenia to them. The present resolution is a constitutional document. The new motion for a resolution, however, highlights the developmental guiding role, taking into account the continuity of the present resolution, builds on it, taking into account the new situations and circumstances in which the Republic of Slovenia is today, this is membership in NATO and the European Union. For these reasons, the security situation of the Republic of Slovenia is today different from that of the international institutions. In its opinion, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia assesses that the proposed act constitutes a modern, comprehensive and coordinated basis for the normative organisational and substantive coordination of issues relating to national security. It also points to uncertainty factors that can create social unrest and instability. It warns that economic, social and existential uncertainty is emerging. The Legal Service has pointed out some inconsistencies in the use of terminology. The comments are mostly taken into account in the form of amendments. In the debate, the Committee on Defence found that the document before it was a good basis for concrete decisions to be taken in the framework of legislative and other proposals. There were also some minor criticisms, some systemic solutions could have been written differently, some chapters could have been combined and similar. It is commendable that the motion for a resolution places great emphasis on new forms of threats, such as climate change and natural disasters. As the present act rightly states, modern security threats are mainly climate change, the limited nature and other strategic resources, the unfavourable global demographic, financial, economic and social movements, the deep differences between the rich and the poor, and we are facing the latter at present. While we cannot say that this poses an enormous threat to national security today, these are threats that can turn into potential threats that will hamper the development of the country and its foundations. The present act states that the important comparative advantages of the Republic of Slovenia as members of the EU and NATO will also come from its different links to the South-East European area in the future, but does not specify in more detail the comparative advantages. However, this means that the well-thinking of these advantages are aware, which means that Slovenia has not fought for admission to international institutions for free. The advantage of our membership in international integration is also beneficial in terms of internal security, as this has given the police considerable advantages in the context of cross-border cooperation and the exchange of information on migration. At the same time, internal borders and controls were removed and the flow of goods and services increased. In view of the sub-section of response to global, financial, economic and social risks, it was pointed out that in a global, financial and economic crisis, all Slovenia's efforts are aimed at mitigating the consequences by measures to increase confidence in financial institutions. We hope that the country is actually doing this, although the current indicators are not going in this direction. The counter-terrorism response sub-division was to the question of how solid our commitment to the fight against terrorism is, it was ensured that a joint commitment to combat all forms of terrorism and terrorist acts in the future within the framework of the national security of the Republic of Slovenia would be adopted in the Government and now in the National Assembly. Some amendments were adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleague and colleague. In the Parliamentary Group, we really support the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy, as it sets out a fundamental development and guidance document in the field of national security. The resolution sets out the national interests and national security objectives of the Republic of Slovenia, analyses the security environment, sources of security threats and national security risks. The baselines of the Republic of Slovenia's response to individual security threats and risks policy and the widest system-wide and organisational solutions to the country's full functioning in ensuring national security are identified. The added value of the resolution is that it is based on the starting points of the Resolution on the 2001 national security strategy. In addition, it takes into account many new situations and circumstances in which the Republic of Slovenia is today. Since the adoption of the first resolution, Slovenia has become a member of NATO, a member of the European Union, which has clearly changed the security situation of our country. The resolution on the national security strategy provides the basis for the preparation and completion of specific strategic and other development documents in the field of national security and for the normative, organisational and substantive regulation of issues relating to the provision of national security of the Republic of Slovenia. As explained by the Minister of Defence, the resolution is the main source of national security. It is a fundamental strategic document, on which it will also depend on the adoption of a strategy on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as well as a basis for amending the Defence Act. In the Group of Members, we are sure that, taking into account the changes in the international and national environment, the time has come for an in-depth amendment and addition to the Defence Act, in which we are particularly committed to the increased role of Parliament in deciding on the deployments of soldiers and all Slovenian citizens to international operations and missions. According to our assessment, according to a series of initial but never completed reforms, the defence sector is at the point where a broader consideration of its further development is needed. We have been increasingly reminded of this in recent times by the general public. A series of organisational and procedural duplications, as well as irrationalities, have emerged in the system of national security and in the defence sector, which have been particularly exacerbated during the crisis facing the country and should be resolved. This is a need that stems from the changed nature of the military professionalisation system itself, as well as from the need for further development, which has been completely stalled in recent years. Only new weapons and equipment do not constitute the necessary modernisation of the system, and they must also follow the necessary comprehensive and targeted legal and systemic changes. In their preparation, we expect to ask and answer a key question: What kind of defence portfolio does the Republic of Slovenia need, on the one hand, to be effective and consistent with the material and other capacities of the Republic of Slovenia and the tasks that the system is expected to achieve at national and international level. It is more than obvious that the current focus on international operations alone does not meet broader social expectations regarding the tasks of the defence department. In order to involve the civil and professional public concerned to a greater extent in the debate on the draft resolution on the national security strategy, our parliamentary group on the working body proposed that the Defence Committee organise a public presentation of the opinion on the resolution before the adoption of the resolution in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, our proposal has not received sufficient support, explaining that the public debate would slow down the adoption of all other documents to be adopted on the basis of a resolution in the near future. We therefore expect, in the Group of Members, that in the preparation of the new sectoral laws and strategies that will follow the resolution on national security in the future, to a greater extent a civil and professional public will be invited and involved in the debate on proposals and their preparation. This is how we will successfully and with the necessary social consensus align our views on the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the provision of national security with the needs and capacities of the country and the expectations of its citizens. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the development resources must be allocated to the projects and equipment needed to carry out the mandated tasks within the framework that this country can and is acceptable. With these expectations, we will also support the resolution on the national security strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u153	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and a distinguished colleague! The resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is the same as all other resolutions, a doctrine and a strategic document. Such documents are necessary in each country, as a policy in an area is drawn up on the basis of these documents. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that national security policy is a complex policy that covers virtually all the resources. During the 3rd millennium, we must not view the resolution of the national security strategy as defence from a defensive and police point of view or, in other words, consider defence in relation to repressive methods. The resolution rightly states that modern security threats are mainly climate change, the limited nature and other strategic sources, the unfavourable global demographic, financial, economic, social movements and could also be listed. And that's exactly what we're facing right now. National security is not at risk at the moment. However, these threats can quickly turn into potential threats to our country's development, security and stability. The resolution also describes the international security of the environment of the Republic of Slovenia, which is highly interdependent, since in an international security environment, no country can guarantee its national security completely on its own, as it once was possible. Therefore, we do not think that the comparative advantages of Slovenia are explained here. It is not enough to talk about membership in the European Union and NATO. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that we should write down the comparative advantages in more detail. If we stop at national threats and national security risks, for example, poverty and other social problems are mentioned under the chapter of Weapons and Public Security. The fact is that, in view of the general exacerbation, political, social, economic, security and other relations in the world, more violations of public order and peace can also be expected in the future in the Republic of Slovenia, including worse violations, which can consequently turn into crimes with all the consequences for the security of an individual and of the Slovenian community. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the development of every social crisis and crisis of values around the world is developing in this direction and, of course, Slovenia is no exception. It is therefore important that we adopt the resolution, which is essentially insufficient and in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that we must do more in other areas. We therefore call on the Government to take concrete action to address the financial crisis and the crisis of values we have seen recently. It is therefore imperative to change the adverse global, demographic, financial, economic and social movements and, if we do so, we have done much for national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u154	Havela. Mr Joško Godec will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues, respected remaining present. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is positive. In the DeSUS Group, we assess that the proposed act constitutes a balanced, comprehensive and modern basis for the normative organisational and substantive regulation of issues relating to the provision of the national security of the Republic of Slovenia, which is aimed at the future, so we will support the proposal for an act. We agree with the proposal for an act that the interest in preserving the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, as well as the national identity, culture and identity of the Slovenian people, are the permanent life interests of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the proposal for a resolution, as assessed by the DeSUS Group, takes fully into account the treatment of national security in the definition of national interests and national security objectives by Slovenia, the starting points are the national interest and the objectives resulting from the fundamental values of Slovenian society. The protection and defence of national interests and objectives are, however, at the heart of ensuring national security. The motion for a resolution defines national interests as life and strategic, resulting in national security objectives and also enables them to achieve broader social objectives. From this point of view, we will support the draft resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u157	Respectable. For security, citizens and citizens are willing to pay a lot and we also spend a lot of money on security and defence through annual budgets and through the programmes we implement in this area. That is why we are so much more interested in the fact that documents and everything that governs this area are designed to ensure that security is effectively ensured that all elements of this security are coordinated among themselves. It is therefore necessary, firstly, to have a basic document, as it is called, a resolution, which in itself means a framework, a basis, some direction. Of course, many things need to be done then in other regulations. There is a need for debate, including wider debate. It will contribute, even if some of the initiatives on the Committee have not been adopted, to the petition signed by a nice number of citizens and citizens, which requires a debate on the changing security, defence and thus the possibility of some changes, including in the heads, when talking about what and how much we will devote to the security of citizens and citizens and countries as such. There are certainly no policies, those that are critical, in the direction of undermining security and defence, before strengthening, because only discussion brings better solutions. It is undeniably necessary in this resolution to stress that there is still more balance when it comes to others, not military, not armed, threats, but those coming from nature that come so unknowingly, unplanned, unexpected, and we face them virtually every day, wherever in the world, even at home, some of these threats are absolute and we must be prepared for them all the time. And this shift from thinking about how we will ensure the composition of the Slovenian Army and how we will follow the international guidelines when it comes to intervention in crisis areas, when it comes to the participation of Slovenian soldiers and others, including civil and police, civil institutions in crisis areas. That this part of the threat by nature is significantly greater than that of military defence. We therefore expect that, in the previous mandate, we have repeatedly referred to the previous government and also to the public questions about reflection, some changes, some updates in the area of security and defence, even when it comes to procurement, when it comes to the issue of arms expenditure, this is an area that we must constantly weigh, whether certain expenditure is really exclusively intended for weapons and equipment intended primarily for participation in foreign missions, that is, in areas where our members of the armed forces are involved. We are confident that the following documents will be able to build more concretely on some of the open issues and also on the debate with civil society, which, at least I hope, will be launched on the Defence Committee and that some of the fears of the petitions will be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] against the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia, that this is not true and that citizens and citizens have the right to think critically about this area as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy. Also because it is a long-awaited document that replaces one that was adopted long ago in 2001. Since then, both the situation and the forms of risk and risk have changed in many ways. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the proposed document represents a modern, comprehensive and coordinated framework for a comprehensive and balanced definition of the entire area of national security. Since this is a core strategic document, this means, of course, that the national-security objectives set out in this resolution will also have to be achieved, as it will be counter-intention, and much of that in this resolution remains only on paper. The priority of the present document is also that it contains and places great emphasis on new forms of threats, as today the sources of threats are not only related to repressive methods. Some modern forms of threat, such as climate change, the limited nature and other strategic sources, the unfavourable global, demographic, financial and economic differences are serious and these very serious forms of security threats. And on the latter, an increasing social distinction and an increasing number of those citizens who are at the existential minimum are not immune or Slovenia. Therefore, the general exacerbation of the political, social, economic and other situations in the world also has an impact on our situation and security, and it is also important to stress, on this occasion, that security, including national security, is ensured when people are particularly satisfied with their social situation. Economic, social and existential uncertainty, increasing unemployment, increasing poverty are serious factors of uncertainty and risk. The great value of this resolution is that it draws attention to these elements of the threat, it also defines their resolution as the national, life and strategic interest of individuals and nations as a whole. Only their achievement will enable them to achieve broader social goals. Therefore, the motion for a resolution covers all potential aspects of the threat and leaves nothing out. It provides a good basis for addressing all issues relating to national security and offers appropriate solutions, and we will therefore support this motion for a resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you again. In our Group, we are aware that the provision of national security represents an express national interest and is among the fundamental values of Slovenian society. The preservation of independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and the preservation of national identity and identity is in the strategic and life-saving interest of Slovenia, and therefore these objectives must be achieved through national security policies, which are envisaged in the framework of the resolution. National security, as well as democracy, is regarded as an axiom, that there is never an optimum state achieved, but if this value is ignored and underestimated, it can quickly turn to its opposite -+ into a national danger. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we see the preparation and adoption of the resolution as extremely serious and responsible work and its adoption, of course, because of the country-specific importance we support. The resolution defines the geopolitical and geostrategic position of the Republic of Slovenia and its international security environment, which is today complex and interdependent and has global dimensions. The resolution divides the sources of threats and national security into global, supranational and national sources of threat. Some sources are already traditional, such as crisis hotspots, terrorism and potential military threats. But the real sources of threat are also increasingly the consequences of climate change, the global, financial and economic crisis, which exacerbates living conditions and causes a shortage of living resources, and creates a fight for natural resources, survival and potential migration. Between national sources of threat and national security risks, the resolution rightly touches on the situation arising from the financial and economic and social crisis and their consequences for the threat to public order and peace. In the Group of Members, we point out that the government measures and responses so far have not been successful and are more a factor of uncertainty than a factor of stability. Poverty and the related political, social and security situation are cited as a particular problem. As a potential threat, human rights and fundamental freedoms violations and human dignity are also properly evaluated. We can say that such an assessment has proved to be realistic, as some of the consequences of the threat to human dignity have already been faced in the construction project of the Stadzica Stadium. Natural and other disasters must always be addressed seriously between national sources of risk. The resolution in Chapter 5 defines the response of the Republic of Slovenia to threats and risks of national security. Response policy is a national security policy covering the strategies, programmes, plans and activities of the country through which it responds to sources of threat and risk. It is therefore very important that we have a successful external policy, a proper defence policy and strategy, and an effective policy to ensure internal security and a policy of protection against natural and other disasters. The resolution under the foreign policy highlights the importance of the safe and stable situation of the country in the international community. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that the comparative progress of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of security, foreign and defence policy is important for its membership in the European Union and NATO, which is also highlighted by the resolution. If we thought now in Slovenia that Slovenia was bad because we were members of international integration, we would be declared windmills because the referendum decision on integration was clear. However, such views have been emerging recently in a petition entitled "Let's end the military" and get out of NATO, which came to the public immediately after the motion for a resolution has been tabled in the legislative process. Its content, however, is in total conflict with the proposed resolution, as it recommends the withdrawal from NATO and the abolition or dissolution of the Slovenian Army. Getting out of Slovenia from international institutions would mean taking full responsibility and consequences on one's own shoulders. The resolution rightly stresses that no country can afford its national security today on its own. Slovenia is no exception. With regard to the adoption of the resolution, we were surprised in the Group of Members that the Coalition Party really wanted to reopen the debate on the resolution with a proposal for a public presentation of opinions on the Defence Committee. This would suspend its acceptance and prevent and prevent the execution of certain emergency projects in the defence field. At the same time, the same parliamentary group did not make any amendments to the content that would further clarify the dilemmas in the plenary debate. Therefore, we are concerned that the national security strategy within the government majority has a time bomb and will continue efforts to weaken the Slovenian Army and oppose the alliances that are in the interest of collective defence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u162	Mr. Jerovšek, time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u165	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 66 Members present, with 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. As you can see, I read a little faster because I used to talk a little slower. We continue with paragraph 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 in the framework of the urgent procedure We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 26. 3. 2010 So we're moving on to decision-making. [[...]] Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask if I can vote as I think I will vote, but I don't know whether I have to ask you whether I have to ask each Member individually. I also went for coffee with Mr. Webber or it wouldn't have been meant to be bribery or anything like that. [[...]] And please, if you can explain to me, can I ask you or all of the coalition MPs on a case-by-case basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. You have to give your own answer. Thank you very much. We continue the second treatment by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1 of the SDS Group. I warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're at Article 1. We decide on the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are finished with the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. Excuse me, excuse me. We have number four, I'm sorry. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The Honorable President. With this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to reduce the payment deadlines for direct and indirect budgetary users from 30 to 15 days. In fact, the Government's proposal is to amend the Public Finance Act in the opposite direction from the expectation of the economy. So, the government's proposal, which, if not adopted by our amendment, is to legislate, is that the payment deadline for direct budget users is 30 days, not 30 days, but 30 days. This, in my opinion, puts the payment deadline at the maximum possible payment deadline from the current 30-day payment deadline and, at the same time, after my assessment, causes unnecessary bureaucratic complications. In particular, some direct budget users who could have paid earlier will have paid after the thirtieth day after the 15th or 20th days. I think that this will present an unnecessary bureaucratic burden to some direct budgetary users, while also needlessly extending payment deadlines to 30 days. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the amendment, we propose that the payment deadline be reduced to fifteen days. This contributes significantly to curbing the growing problem of payment non-discipline in the country. When we were able to read Slovenian newspapers days ago, we could see in one of the journals that Slovenian builders, as one of the key proposals, refer to the Government the proposal that the country, the local community, public institutions and other direct and indirect budget users pay their obligations faster, in fact they only expect to pay their obligations within the statutory deadline, which means that it is even worse than we think. So what's worse is that the payment deadlines are actually longer than the law provides. Dear coalition, if you want to do something concrete for the economy, then you have to do it with concrete measures. Only through strategies, by repeating some expectations that we will be a lighthouse and that we will not know what else is going to happen in Europe, of course the real sector will not have any of this. This amendment, which we are putting into the SDS, is an important step towards helping the economy in these times of crisis, not only that, but also to upgrade the standard of some payment discipline that must be the government's ongoing effort.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. But now we are really done with the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 1 of the amended Law, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article? I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public-Private Partnership in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public-Private Partnership is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 30. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment to a black, shortened procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted by the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question by Mr Tanka on the government's aid policy for the economy. We're voting. Excuse me! Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear President! On Wednesday, I asked the Prime Minister two simple questions. One related to the traffic light of anti-crisis measures. I asked him how many green lights were already lit on that traffic light and how many red lights are still burning. The second issue was the contractual associate of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Isajlović. I asked him when the contract would finally be terminated with this associate at the Ministry. I didn't get any answers to two such simple questions. I must say, as far as counter-crisis measures are concerned, we are far behind. Here we wonder whether these anti-crisis measures or measures of the exit strategy are feared to be adopted because then the economy would overheat, or whether we would not take these measures because simply in the Government, the government coalition does not have sufficient consensus on what these measures are supposed to be. The basis, the prerequisite for successful and effective work, is certainly understanding in the government's government coalition, and, unfortunately, we note here that all these disputes between ministers and ministries are so much that it is not possible for the government to propose some concluded content and also submit it in due time for consideration by the National Assembly. In the light of the anti-crisis measures, 26 measures have been written and, unfortunately, those important measures that would actually enable all of these stories, as regards business, business performance, economic growth, as well as prosperity and employment, to start happening, are not simply presented to the National Assembly. I propose that the reasons why there are still so many red lights on and why there are no green lights on are discussed in the National Assembly. In fact, it is a fundamental issue of the fate of the Republic of Slovenia and I think that the National Assembly should hold an appropriate debate on this. If this is not the case, then we understand that the government coalition for the document that we have considered in the National Assembly, which has the title of the Output Strategy, shows no interest and no interest. However, I think that the National Assembly should be aware of what is going on in the area of the exit strategy measures and very interested in the setting on fire of green lights as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in relation to hydropower plants in the lower Savi. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u172	Dear Members. The project of construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava ran smoothly until about six months ago. It stopped six months ago because the Ministry of the Environment and Space, as the authority of the Government, did not take the appropriate measures to provide financial resources for the continuation of the construction of water infrastructure, a specific accumulation pool at the Hydropower Plant Krško. So it happens that energy infrastructure is being built, a creepy building is being built, a machine shop and everything, but the accumulation pool is not being built. It is also unclear how and when the accumulation pool will begin to be built. The problem is, therefore, that there is already a potential damage that will occur next October, when the energy part will be fully built, but there will be no adequate infrastructure to enable the hydropower plant to start working. The damage, according to energy sources, is about half a million euros a month. The project for the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava is not only an energy project, it is an important project for flood protection, as it protects the entire Posavje, settlements, as well as agricultural areas from frequent floods, there has already been some damage. This project is also an important water project because it retains the Sava River, Slovenia's largest Slovenian river in the lower part of Slovenia, thus significantly sustaining the groundwater in Posavje, as well as providing rich supplies of drinking water in this part of Slovenia. The project is also important as an anti-crisis project, as it employs more than 200 Slovenian companies that employ more than 2 000 workers. These currently stand only because the financing of water infrastructure is not resolved. I agree with some of the issues that are also related to the use of water funds and other open issues, but the Ministry of the Environment and the new Minister of the Environment is probably in its position to solve problems, not to deepen or create additional problems. The Minister himself expressed in my question the desire to talk more, to find solutions to this issue, and I think it would be good to find the political will to discuss Mr Žarnic's response to my question. So we want nothing more than to continue in line with the future plan for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava and, of course, also to meet the binding objective that Slovenia will have by 2020, thus providing 25% of renewable sources of electricity production in final consumption. I request your support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, an explanation on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors? On behalf of the SNS Group, the Victory of the Elinčič Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we support the debate on this proposal. The fact is, we are not talking much about waterways at all. Much has already been said by Mr Vizjak about certain segments, he has forgotten another segment, the airworthiness on the Sava River. We have completely ignored this and despite the fact that only 6% of the increased costs would allow shipping to the middle of Slovenia when we were building hydrocentres. These projects were made in the 1960s in the former SFR of Yugoslavia and we do not understand today what almost 40 years ago, or more than 40 years ago, they understood and were aware of this importance. This would also involve Slovenia in network shipping in Central Europe, and this is very intensively done by Croatia. The command of the previous Prime Minister was that Croatia must prepare a waterway to Zagreb and do so intensively. The links between Zagreb and other places in Croatia are also under way, plans are under way. We're not doing anything here. The only thing we did was that we moved the institution that was supposed to deal with the Sava River to Zagreb and simply allowed Croatia to decide the Slovenian rivers as well. I think we should at least open up all these issues in the debate; in addition to those mentioned by Mr Visjak, also the issue of airworthiness. It is a solution to the economic situation, it is a solution to the ecological situation and it is also a solution to the end of the new open tourism that Europe is looking for more and more. If the Slovenian state and the Slovenian government do not care what happens to possible resources, what will happen with the possibility of additional earnings and additional matters and connections within Europe, then there is nothing we can do to help. However, I think it makes sense that this debate opens and that we find some common solutions. After all, if I'm not mistaken, we're in the same boat and this boat is leaving very much water. It would make sense if we could just plug some holes together.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u175	Havela beautiful. Explanation on its own behalf. Anyone else? In your own name, Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you very much, for yourself. Now, this boat that Mr. Vizjak was talking about and Mr. Victory Jelinčič was not the same because this is another matter that Mr. Victory was talking about, while Mr. Vizjak was talking about the problems that are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u177	Reasons for voice, not comments from others [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u178	Well, just so the people know that maybe now the Victory has come from the Sava River, but let's leave now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u179	Voice explanation, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u180	I agree 90% with Mr Visiak when he says what the problem is, when construction on the lower Savi is stopped and economic damage is done in some way. All is well and well, but Mr Vizjak knows very well that we, the mayors and this committee, which deals with the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, have already been with the President of the Government 15 days ago, when we have also adopted conclusions that I think the Government will in some way execute them. We are all clear together, including Mr Bogovic was present, we have adopted four conclusions where we have found together that the Ministry of Environment and Space must immediately provide funding for the construction of the Accumulation Pool, so that the ILO must immediately make an investment programme for hydroelectric Krka and a business plan by 15 April. Now this date, gentlemen, has not yet been "through" so I expect the government to respect these conclusions. That is why I will not today support the proposal made by Mr Vizjak, but when this date passes, it is April 15th and that the Government will do nothing, and then believe that I will be in favour of such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please don't follow your predecessor's example, and don't be argumentative.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u182	So it's true, about fifteen days ago, there was a meeting with the Prime Minister. Dear President, I'm not embezzling anyone. Therefore, at this meeting they also agreed that conditions for the continuation of construction should be provided immediately. If the Ministry of the Environment explains that it is immediately 15 days, then this "so" is very long immediately, because in 15 days nothing happened - also what could have happened. Therefore, the business plan of Infra, which is the holder of this investment, could be considered and adopted in the Government. The adoption of the business plan in the Government is only a prerequisite for the call for the construction of the accumulation pool, then we can expect the construction workers to step up in the absence of state investment for this investment, which, by the way, is worth around EUR 15 million, and we can expect the selection of the contractor there in autumn. In one year, however, it is necessary to build an accumulation pool in order not to cause damage. So every "that" should really be right away. So it has already happened that he does not stick to the agreement or arrangement. We will have this debate at the April session, which falls after these dates, in which something should have happened. I will be very happy to see in this debate that the Ministry of Environment and Space has already issued a call by April 15 for something already done and that the project will run. By the way, I also support this debate because of something that very much relates to Mr Jelinčič's comment, this is about the planning of other hydropower plants that are still following, namely the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydropower plant. The planning of these plants has also stopped. And the problem is that the project that has been running, which is a cross-cutting priority not only for energy users, but also for others, has stopped; instead of accelerating projects, it stops. That is why I think there is even more than a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Well, why did I spread this debate? Because in a normal, smart debate, the problem can be summed up substantially more than we are discussing just one narrow segment. That's the point! If we want to solve economic situations, we will not only solve them in part, because this is the mistake that we see all the time to take away from the whole context of a small trifle and try to wrap it somehow to make it look as beautiful as possible and everything else around is bad. It is therefore reasonable to discuss this in a broader way and then the Government and its experts can draw conclusions, ideas and, above all, solutions. We're missing solutions. So far, we have only spoken, we have not taken a single step forward. And even if coalition Members are sitting with the President of the Government, that does not mean that something will be done. This is one of the talks that will be recorded, and it is questionable whether there will be any results. I and our client are interested in the results, not what you're going to talk about, but who's going to pay someone for coffee or not pay for it, or who's going to bring it to a meeting with the Prime Minister. Therefore, I think it makes sense to support this issue, to give it a certain legitimacy, a greater weight and to discuss it together. I think it's in the common interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 37. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Eva Irgl, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the Eve Irgl question on ensuring the protection of human rights in the field of police work. Please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. I asked the Minister of the Interior about the police's politicisation under her leadership and, following her client's wish to extend the hunts to the prosecution, which is why the public must first be discredited and the name of the Attorney-General has to be covered by the Bulmastif affair, as was done by the police under the leadership of Katarina Kresal. I have therefore asked Mrs Kresalov a number of questions, which, unfortunately, the Minister did not want to answer, although her answers are still in the public interest. Instead of answering her questions, she took care of an abundance of sarcasm and cynicism and even said my questions were distasteful. Let's see what kind of "untasteful" questions I asked her. I wondered if, in view of all the events, he still felt that we were living in a legal country where everyone was equal before the law. I also wondered if her friends, such as Mr Pogacar, had more opportunities to obtain a certain job than those who do not. I also wondered whether the rule of law still acted well, efficiently and quickly in the case of Mr Meglic when he was attacked by dogs, or whether the rule of law simply failed in its effectiveness. Finally, I asked her if she could claim that she had never confused public and private interests as a minister. These were the questions that I asked the Minister of the Interior herself, who she called "untasty" and refused to answer. That is why I want us to have a broader debate on these answers, because I think that this is such an important issue that we need to discuss more widely, so I also demand that we hold this debate and I hope that you will all support this intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u187	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Group Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs Irgle asked specific questions, not as the Minister replied, that she had put quite a few things on a fast track. There were, of course, no answers to the specific questions, the answers were strange, in fact, an extraordinary mood for the Minister against Ambassador Irgle. And even impatience and resentment, which in fact proves that the questions were still in place. The fact is that the Minister has succeeded in removing Mr Pogačnik so that the Bulmastif affair is not discussed in the National Assembly. It has succeeded in the fact that Mr Pogačnik has resigned himself. In this case, there is no debate here - if Mr Pahor were to be suspended, the debate would be - and the matter has disappeared! And only questions such as those raised by colleague Irgle are those that need to be cleared up. And given how the police work in Slovenia, the protection of human rights is on very thin ice. We get to know Europe, they put us between Bulgaria and Romania, they'll probably be even lower soon. On such matters, we can ask ourselves what it means to say, say, a sentence when the signature of Janka Gorška, the Director-General of Police, says that if I remain on this committee, it would seriously endanger the lives of the operators of individual measures. Mr. Goršek suggests that if I stayed on this committee, I would probably kill the cops - or what? This is clearly evident from this sentence. And who runs this department? Mrs. Katarina Kresal. Of course she'll do anything not to answer here. And that's why it's the noblest shame you'll ever have. After all, Mrs Kresal forgets that she is a minister and that Members are appointed ministers. It is true that the coalition protects them in all possible and impossible ways, but the voters, I hope they will understand what the matter is. And if we want to clear things up, let the Minister answer these questions here. The easiest thing to do is to spit on everyone from the high throne, and then, if anyone says anything different than the Minister's will, then close that man up, accuse him, shoot him, or hang him with some nonsense like that, if he starts killing cops and stuff. In short, we live in a strange country and only with a discussion, with a public conversation [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We can get rid of these labels. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much. An explanation for the vote on your behalf, Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I will support the debate on this answer, in particular because of the Minister's unworthy behaviour on the occasion of the answer to this question. The National Assembly is not a fashion runway and ministers and ministers are not modelled on it, the Minister of the Interior is covering a department that has extremely broad police and other powers and is currently under the control of a political party, which is a party led by itself. Following the fact that yesterday, in the absence of Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who was in Brussels, the Government was able to adopt a decision quickly with distorted reasons that there is limited parliamentary control of the police, this policy is all the more so. It started right after the new term of office, immediately after which prominent positions at the Ministry of the Interior began with the placement of party people, people who also worked in this Parliament in the LDS party and who are now sitting in responsible places at the Ministry of the Interior in the inner circle of the new minister. It continued when seven candidates, among them the majority of the candidates close to the LDS, were no good for the first policeman in the country, and Mr Janko Goršek was appointed before the National Assembly changed the law on this. This has been continued recently by the establishment of a so-called independent national investigative office, on which the law is designed so that all repressive powers are exercised directly by the Minister or Minister of the Interior. If the rule of law were actually the same for everyone, then Baricevic would probably not have witnessed the situation that the victim was [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by dogs attacked and almost to death bitten, today she has not experienced her satisfaction in court, and some others have long since. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in your name Victory of the Elinčič Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I reiterate that the debate in the National Assembly on this issue is very urgent and very important. After all, strange things are happening in Slovenia. Mr Pahor was in Brussels and he was not here at all. And such a measure as was served by the Minister of the Interior at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia yesterday, in the absence of the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, has occurred for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia and never in the history of other democratic countries in Europe. This makes it necessary to think that the Minister may have already taken over the leadership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or that she intends to do so in a short time. The incursion of armed police officers into the National Assembly, which was approved by the highest forums and is identical between the same in the National Assembly, does not in any way contribute to the country's democracy, and at least the debate on these matters should be slightly different. Even what violent investigations here, there, long and fast, in violation of legislation and based on illegal listening, which will prove, if not sooner, in court that this is happening with us - please! And now we shouldn't even ask? And we shouldn't get even the slightest answer from the Minister? If nothing else, we will get these answers in two years, but I would like to have them today, because in two years, it may also happen that Mr Pahor will have to flee from the Minister abroad and ask for asylum there.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I was obliged to explain that there was no entry into the National Assembly, but a house investigation was carried out at certain premises. According to the information I have, only one of the parliaments is exempt from such investigations, and this is the Turkish Parliament; according to the information I have received. So much so that we use the right terms for events that have happened. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovana Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of mags. Joyful Žerja in relation to environmental permits. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to my assessment, the new Minister of Environment and Space has made a serious mistake by putting some important economic operators such as Acroni, Metal, Glassry Hrastnik, Cinkarna Celje, Nafta Petrokom at risk and, above all, has done irreparable economic damage to those economic operators who, since 2006, have normally submitted an application for environmental consent under the Environmental Act and the IPPC Directive, have done everything, while the Environment Agency, unfortunately, has not done its part of the story. By the end of 2007, all 160 environmental agreements should be issued, of course if all the conditions are met. As we can see, this time we are in 2010; and this has not been done. I am aware of a specific case where there is absolutely no objection to the issue of this environmental agreement, and yet it is on this list with which the Minister has actually threatened to close. I don't think that's right and it shouldn't have happened. And it would be good to discuss this, not only on these specific five cases, but also on what is happening to IPPC debtors in Slovenia. In fact, according to some media we can see that even those who are IPPC and who have already obtained such environmental consent should not have received it, as it is my view that some warehouses of dangerous substances, very dangerous substances such as phenol and the like, are being stored in an inappropriate way. I assess that the debate on this subject would be appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Branko Marinič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to Branko Marinič's question on the establishment of cohesion funds due to non-compliance with European rail legislation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I asked Minister Vlačič about a very serious subject. Finally, he replied that the Government or the Ministry of Transport would do everything not to stop EUR 440 million of cohesion funds, because Slovenia is not harmonising European rail legislation. This is a very serious matter, it is a very serious reminder, which Europe has already informed Slovenia about this in October last year, and nothing has happened in this area to date in relation to the implementation of rail legislation with Europe. In short, if we have talked about the content of the law, by which we allocate known resources for investment in public rail infrastructure, it does not mean that we can now rest on these laurels and wait for Europe to issue a decision, which the Commissioner for Transport has made clear on 16 March. If Slovenia does not implement all the necessary rail legislation with European legislation, this will certainly happen. The railway road or access to rail tracks in the Republic of Slovenia is guaranteed to all those who meet the conditions throughout Europe. Slovenia is no exception here. Today or yesterday it was clear that the use of railways could also invest in public rail infrastructure, and this is not the case because we do not have the legislation to be drawn up in this area. We also do not have a comprehensive legislation on the separation of the carrier from the infrastructure. This is an important area, a complex legislation that cannot be resolved quickly. It's useless to wait for some experts, foreign experts who will come. They probably won't do it, but they'll try to solve some other things. Railways and the Ministry of Transport seem to be waiting for this to happen on its own, so, in accordance with Article 46(2), I have proposed that a broader substantive debate be held in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 38. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Bezjak's question on the rehabilitation of connecting roads in Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Marjan Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nicely greeted! Before yesterday, I asked Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport. It's been a year and a half since the city highway opened, and there's still nothing fixed about repairing regional and local roads. He gave some answers to the work being done, and after I showed him the pictures that I could show you today, he agreed that we should have a broader discussion and then solve this problem together. So once again, I ask you to hold a broader debate in the National Assembly to find out why EUR 5.6 million has been channelled to Dars and Dars has ordered the SCT to see if this money has been earmarked for the new transactions that the SCT has acquired abroad, or whether this money has disappeared elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a director responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkš, to the question of the so-called 5th call. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group, Franc Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Minister! Before I asked my question, the Prime Minister of the Government, when answering a question raised by his fellow Member on the European Capital of Culture, Maribor, said, among other things: "In terms of cohesion and other options, clearly, it is money in Europe. It's not that easy to pump that money. Nevertheless, we have made progress this year. But within these means, we have not achieved the measures that we want, and I have no objection to it if once..."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u201	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u202	I hope you stop my time. So: "Inside of these funds we have not achieved the measures that we want, and I do not mind once again discussing the effectiveness of drawing on European funds and finding out whether these are also systemic problems, bureaucratic obstacles and other shortcomings in this system." Well, then, when I asked Minister Gjerkesh himself a question, and of course, logically, there was no call in the year-and-a-half for this fifth call, but I believe that the ministry is also trying now to try to make up for that, which is to make up for that. However, it is likely that the President of the Government gave this reply because on 17 March, like other Members and Members who receive these various dispatches, he read in a dispatch from Brussels that we simply do not use resources on individual operational programmes, both on regional development potentials and on environmental and transport infrastructure and on the operational programme for human resources development. It follows from this depot that so far we have absorbed eighty-six million euros so that one hundred and twenty-six of them will have to be pumped up by the end of the year, fifty-five, but there is no evidence of where or how. That the SVRL has prepared some measures to simplify and improve, and it would also make sense to discuss these measures here in Parliament, as many mayors still have a good handle on this topic when preparing these calls [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on the introduction of financial instruments for accelerated pumping and simplification in the process of preparing and certifying tendering instruments and direct validation [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you very much. May I have peace in the hall? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 30 votes to 39. The vote was 30.) [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The subject of my question was the introduction of the new Law on Courts, which we adopted last year in the National Assembly last month. In the transitional and final provisions the Government has written down on a proposal from the Minister, we have accepted that the law will be implemented and enforced in practice as from 1 January 2010. These are important matters relating to the organisational units of the courts for the prosecution of organised crime - i.e. for the trial in cases of organised crime - and it was indirectly necessary to amend certain sub-laws, such as the Rules of Procedure. Minister to 15. 12 [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u205	Comrade Gorenak, just a moment, I'm gonna stop your time so you don't miss your time. Dear colleagues, this is a colleague who wants to tell you something and tell you how he intends to vote. Please respect him and listen to him. But we're in decision-making, for all the other things and discussions, it'll be time later. Please proceed, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I thank you for this intervention, and this is the only way to prove that it is truly equal. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's just the way things are. Up to 15. 12. nothing has been done. For the last 14 days before the new year, we all know that usually a working group or anyone else does not do anything special. The working group was appointed 15. 12. 2009 This is said, consciously as of 1 January, nothing has literally been done. I also received a letter signed by the Presidents of the District Courts, which was sent to me by the Presidents of the District Courts. They're turning to the Council of Justice, turning to the Supreme Court. The letter was sent to me. What do the Presidents of the Court say? They say the minister wrote that the minister sent some instructions from this task force. These instructions were received in early February 2010 and the Presidents of the Courts have a clear opinion: the Minister extends the powers of law, it is said, introduces certain things that are not prescribed by law adopted by the National Assembly. I also gave the letter to the minister. That's not, I'll say how the first such work of a minister who, with some sub-laws or letters, would extend his powers under the law. The same case was made in the case of the prosecution, despite the fact that it was the government's anti-legislative service, despite the fact that the prosecutors had told him that he was out of law to extend his powers, he had signed such instructions. The parliamentary groups are likely to receive a proposal for a constitutional judgment. I believe that in the case of a minister, whom I have already told many times, or told my colleagues that he will also mature slowly for interpretation, it would be good to have a broader debate, not only on the issue of the implementation of this law, but also on the opportunity and opportunity to do so for the other things that are happening. The Minister reacts very much in strange ways. These are strange ways. For example, last year, the Ljubljana D.A. Control Group found minor irregularities, and he called it breaking the D.A.'s back and handing out yellow cardboard. This year, he spoke of the prosecutor's violation of the Constitution and the constitutional guarantee of the independence and independence of prosecutors. He didn't answer my seven questions. Of course he couldn't, it doesn't say in the constitution. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Marjan Bezjak on the situation of parking places in Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Marjan Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I also asked this question yesterday to Dr. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u209	Please, peace in the hall. Proceed, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u210	Thank you for warning me. I also asked this question to Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport. In fact, across Slovenia we have a highway cross from Kopra to Hodoš and from Jesenic to the Croatian border. In fact, there are no resting places or parking places on this highway crossing for ADR trucks carrying dangerous goods. Last year, the Ministry of the Interior passed a law on the four-fold increase in fines and I proposed that, in fact, these fines with the Ministry of the Interior give a moratorium on not actually being punished, because these people cannot park or stop vehicles on this highway cross. I must admit that the Minister has absolutely agreed with this, and I hope that you will actually vote in favour of a broader debate in the National Assembly, because the Minister himself has agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. May I have peace in the hall? There are 65 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the bill on school diet. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a school diet law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. [[...]] An explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. In our Group of Members, we believe that it is right to subsidise primary school nutrition, but it does not seem appropriate for us to do so at the expense of the students. The law adopted in the previous mandate was an important step in this direction and should therefore continue, not to step back. Perhaps we could say that this is, nevertheless, a good step for primary school or primary school nutrition, but the country which is in this case, namely, in the bill, will determine that the meal is worth 0.8 EUR 0.5. I'm sure even the 0.3 euros wouldn't be the kind of problem that you're hanging from your parents right now. Why it's funny, at least funny - because it's going to mean as much administration as 0.3 euros. With the law you're introducing new records, yesterday I presented what the procedure is like for high school students right now. It is said that the application is first submitted, then verified on the basis of the application, that the terms and conditions are met, then determined by the Director by a decision, i.e. an additional subsidy, that must be sent within 30 days, the decision must have an introduction, a statement, an explanation, that is possible within 7 days, after the receipt of the complaint, the decision must be taken again, and so on. There is even more dilemma than returning by mail with a simple mail, which means it will be difficult to determine when those seven days are or when the time limit for the complaint has been met and so on. Despite the fact that some of you have said that this does not mean a new administration. Look, if we just look at the students, it's 85,000 students. Let's say 25,000 won't pay them, so they won't get monthly bills, 60,000 will still be. Not only will someone have to determine whether they own the subsidy and so on, they will have to issue 60,000 bills every month; but this is an estimate, we have not received accurate data. My colleague taught me yesterday that students get their tickets every month anyway. That's not true. Students get a ticket or pay for a service only if necessary - and most of the time it's not because they don't have lunches organized except in rare schools. We in the SDS Group have a problem with that. We believe that with some good will, the number of students will be reduced so annually and will save half a million euros at the annual level, and better organisation will provide sufficient resources to preserve the way students eat, i.e. in secondary schools, and extend it to a school lunch, only 99% of the children at lunch school. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Therefore, we have quite a few difficulties in voting in this law, or if adjustments in the diocese work are what we want. [[...]] [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Group, Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u214	In our position, I have explained matters quite in detail and presented our point of view. There were quite a few questions open. At that time, I also said that we would vote in favour of further consideration in the Group of Members, but with reservations and concerns, and I hope that this will continue to be taken into account. Madam Secretary from the Ministry has listened attentively to our comments, not only to our Group of Members, but also to others, and I hope that it will also take them into account. Because otherwise, we will not vote in favour of the law unless our comments are taken into account. For the reactions of the students and the student relationship were already alarming yesterday and today and must be taken into account. That's what I said in my position. And now it's as if at first reading, we've confirmed the law. No, no, no. In the Slovenian National Party, we agreed that the law was going to be further examined, and in no case should it be adopted in such a form, in such a proposal as we received last time at the table. So much to explain to all those who misinterpret our "for" last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u215	Anyone else want a word besides SLS on behalf of the delegation? Jakob Preseknik, Slovenian Human Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President and everyone in attendance. We, in the opinion of the Group and in the debate itself, stressed that we are committed to the continued respect of the existing law, which was adopted two years ago, and that we would gradually introduce some of what you are proposing in this law for primary schools. The problem in this matter is also data capture. I have also stressed, in the debate and in the opinion of the Group, that many times the reality of the data obtained by those institutions that are dealing with individual facilitations and other matters, which mean how much a family pays or is exempt from paying to go on a number of occasions, as a result, for the unequal situation of all students and students in this case. I have been warned about this and have always been warned in social work centres, where they are concerned about the implementation of other social assistance laws. We have calculated that we would need this free meal, which is certainly urgently needed, and in the secondary schools where we already have it, and in primary schools, I think about 16 million euros. It is certainly in the second part, where we are talking about organising nutrition in primary and secondary schools, that it is a matter that needs to be settled. That's why we're in some kind of dilemma. If any promise were made by the coalition or the government to listen to any of our proposals, we would vote in favour with confidence, and that is our decision to abstain from doing so. I assume that the law will be adopted at first reading, and I hope that the coalition, or government or coalition, will listen to our ideas and ideas from colleagues who have already indicated their views in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As I said yesterday, I will support this proposal of this law for a personal reason, because I think that, given the situation, both economic and social, it is time for solidarity and if we want to bring this solidarity into this area to include primary schoolchildren, then, of course, it is necessary to take positive discrimination against the socially weaker. But I would like to, because my colleague today mentioned a colleague who was yesterday about the checkers - I will not teach her, but I will say: every month the bill comes. There is at least one item on this item, this is the school fund. But I'm going to bring you from September of the month until now a cut of this billet so you can see it. But when you have your kid in high school, you will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u219	No dialogue or conversation. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I knew it. Is there anyone else? If it is, I'll open the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of voice. I ask no debates and discussions and dialogues with Members and Members of Parliament. Please sign up again. Please. Wrong pressure on wrong button. No! No! The correct pressure on the wrong button. An explanation for Ivan Grill's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I already said in yesterday's debate that this law is essentially a step forward, in the sense that primary schoolchildren are also provided with food subsidies. However, in no case should this change be introduced here in a way that the solutions so far are taken away from our secondary schools. If what was promised yesterday is true that the purpose of this law is to regulate nutrition for both secondary and primary school students, then we will see it in the next reading. We, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will certainly table amendments, where we will try to pursue the goal of ensuring full free school meals or meals for primary and secondary schools. We will see this only in the second reading, so now that the first consideration is under way, we will - at least I will abstain and not oppose this law. But we'll see in the next reading. For once again, I would like to stress that the key purpose of providing our children with free food, regulated nutrition, is to summarize, take over the healthy food rewards that will be accompanied throughout their lifetime and thus ensure their healthy diet, thus better health, which will have positive effects over the long term. Therefore here now to look for bad solutions at the expense of saving on our children, we must not allow it, children are our greatest wealth, so let us also give here by doing this thing also in reality show. Once again: I will not oppose this law, but I will not support it, but we will see in the next reading how much truth is in those purposes that this law seeks to pursue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I will personally support the law, support it because it does not reduce funds for food, but in a more fair way allocates them. How? Now the arrangement is so that everyone gets a free lunch in high school, and after a new one, everyone, including in primary school, together with high school students two-thirds, all those in both high school and elementary school who actually need it. I think that such an arrangement is more solidarity than it has been so far, because we all pay for those who do not need it, for those who are not socially threatened or well-standing. From now on it will be the other way round; we will pay those who are not socially at risk for those who are. And that seems to me to be significantly more solidarity and appropriate, even at this time in which we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Well, there's quite a few information missing from my decision. We asked the Minister yesterday how much of the unpaid diet is in primary schools of arrears or how many non-payments; how much is due to this judicial recovery and what resources this is related to and how much is in the final stage of the write-off, which is then paid back by everyone. The Minister did not want to answer these questions, or the Secretary of State here represented the Ministry, which would be the information we would need to make a decision. Because I'm afraid we're going to be driving the case back to high school now, and we're going to be dealing with the same things there, the payers, the court hearings, and then the final phase with the write-off. Of course, there will be some procedures in between - so many and so many people will have to deal with it. I also find it controversial and problematic that the Minister ignores the students' signatures, that he ignores the changes in the law of both the Diacean Organization of Slovenia and the Students' Organisation of Slovenia, the Education and Education Union, and that the information officer has concerns about the accumulated data, they also have concerns at the Ministry of Labour, because we do not have a single entry point for social transfers and so on. To say that from now on we will have a healthy and good meal, because you have changed a warm meal, which should be just as a rule - is true, is or is not - that will make the matter significantly different. Even before our law was enforced, schools had to adhere to certain rules as to what kind of meals to be prepared and the like. The main problem is that we probably do not exercise control as we should. With better supervision and better organisation, we could save enough to provide free lunch for all primary schoolchildren. That's why I'm not going to support the marriage itself, but I'm not going to oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on mandatory financial discounts for newly built housing units due to the global economic and financial crisis. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a mandatory financial discount for newly built housing units due to the global economic and financial crisis is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 9th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u226	Thank you very much. In the relevant documents of the State and the judiciary, the National Assembly has already adopted certain guidelines in the previous term and some provisions to bring the manner of business before the Court by 2013 so that the papers are practically off-limits. This means, of course, that already in the previous mandate, there has been a great deal of electronic regulation on the entries made in these matters. Our proposal for a law actually follows and continues this practice and speaks in particular of criminal registrations that are supposed to be conducted electronically. As far as the courts are concerned, the matter in this regard is relatively clear. The courts or the judicial branch of power, or not, I will say so much on my own fault - or also - today, in any case, in terms of judicial failures, they are the ones that are stifling the economy; also the economy, due to slow decision-making, late decision-making, sometimes even indecisive decisions. This means that citizens continue to pay compensation for trials in unreasonable terms in one way or another, and this particularly affects the economy. Our purpose and purpose, therefore, is only to speed up e-commerce in the courts, especially in criminal matters. Of course, the situation is also that we are trying to make these procedures more transparent. It happens a lot. I'm not going to mention some famous affair, but it's happening -- that's what we said yesterday-- that some things are about to happen before others. It simply does not follow the order of the case that certain things are in order in one day, that certain things are waiting even after three years. We're talking about the Administrative Court. The transparency of such procedures, as long as we continue to modernise the judiciary electronically, will be the one to make order in this area. As an example, let me rephrase what is happening to bankruptcy managers. The public and citizens would not even know if they did not make this procedure public in the previous term. However, since these proceedings are public, decisions of the courts are available, they are before everyone, and so is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the draft law on public property of officials. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on public property of officials is suitable for further consideration. Dr Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u228	As far as this law or law with a similar title is concerned, the coalition set up a task to prepare it, I think, somewhere last year. That didn't happen. Although we received the draft, I think that last May, which was not officially put into the procedure, we tabled our own law on public property of officials in June. The coalition then said, and also yesterday, we heard voices and misinterpretations to end Kosovo's commission. The Kosovo Commission has a number of tasks, we abolish several articles talking about the fact that the Kosovo Commission monitors the public's assets of officials. This publicity of the assets of the officials is regulated in a different way in the proposal of the law, namely, we are transferring the matter to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall be an independent state authority capable of carrying out such tasks. In the past mandate, even talks were held with the Court of Auditors, and they had nothing against such a solution. What matters most is the public disclosure of the assets of every official. The law provides that the assets of each official shall be made publicly available on the Court of Auditors’ websites. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the public who must also judge us, exclusively the public and no one else in such cases. Public disclosure of property, as I pointed out yesterday, has also dropped the idea that this publication of property would also be in local newspapers - why not? Our constituents need to know and are justified in knowing what our assets are. And it's certainly our constituents and our countrymen, living in our environment, who will still be the best judges. The current regulation of the assets of the officials was then shown by the Kosovo Commission to be, in fact, poor. We have had cases in the past when the official correctly reported the property, but he told the public something else. What happened? Only then could Kosovo's commission tell the public what is the truth and what is not the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, let this be public for each and every one of us. We did this last year when we made our assets publicly available on our own websites. I urge you to do the same. In fact, an excuse, if you, we're preparing a law on integrity, it's so-so. You were preparing it last year, and we didn't see it coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? [[He doesn't want to.]] In your own name? Blackbell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I'll support this law myself. There was a lot of talk yesterday about the publicity of this property. What is the most important thing in this marriage? It is important that a sanction occurs if the property is not declared. The penalty that follows is the forfeiture of this property. Interestingly, there have been problems with the public here in the National Assembly, but they did not appear at the level of the European Central Bank, which had previously assessed this law because it also concerns the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and found that there is nothing wrong with it and that the European Central Bank has no reservations about this. Yesterday we also heard that the Government has already discussed and prepared and adopted a better law that will more comprehensively regulate this area. More comprehensively in this dictionary means that it has more articles, that it is more administrative, that it is more detailed, that there will be more paperwork, but there will be no more efficiency, ladies and gentlemen. Efficiency, where there is too much paperwork, like everywhere else, will be reduced. And this law also regulates the act of lobbying and says: "Any act of lobbying shall be regarded as any non-remunerated contact of lobbyists with lobbyists with a view to affecting the content or procedure of making the above-mentioned decisions." What decisions? Laws, decrees and other decisions to be taken in the National Assembly, on municipal councils, on the Government, on ministries, etc. So this will be legalized and it will have to be paid. Let's say that the unnecessary stickers will be reintroduced in the vehicle registration poles and will go from the pockets of taxpayers to a few million, tens of millions of euros, and someone will have to pay for such a law to be passed. And that will be allowed. However, political bargaining will not be allowed and is not allowed and is corrupt in this country. I don't know if it'll be open after the new police exposition here in the National Assembly if such a law is passed, so support our marriage rather than the one on the way. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u231	Thank you very much. In his own name, Jacob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for a second reading, by having certain reservations to this proposal of the law, namely in this part, to treat the official's assets as an individual. It is certainly necessary to identify the property at least at the family level, as the reality of the data is then significantly different. But this can be arranged in the preparation of the law for the second treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy to be the parent of the labour force, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on development cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy to be the parent of the labour force, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 3. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on social security and an administrative agreement on the implementation of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on social protection. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy to be the parent of the labour force, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the Rafitiation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States on one side and the Republic of Korea on the other side in the field of the Global Satellite Navigation System for Civil Use. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CONFIRMATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE INCOME LEGISLATION LEGISLATION. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The approved text of the Income Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications, the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly, the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the Proposal for a Decision on discharge, the election of a member of the Commission under the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. By letter dated 3 March 2010, the President of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that she be appointed vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Stanislavo Zadravec Caprirolo. I give the floor to the President of the proposal to Stojan Tramtete, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u234	The Honourable President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to summarise the proposal of the President of the Republic for the appointment of Vice-Governor, members of the Bank of Slovenia, Mrs Mag. Stanislav Zadravec Caprirolo. As you may know, the National Assembly prematurely dismissed Vice-Governor Timothy Jagric. On this basis, the President issued an appeal for the submission of possible candidates for the Vice-Governor and on this basis received three candidates. After consultation, he proposed to the National Assembly his candidate - Mrs Mag. Stanislavo Zadravec Caprirolo. Mrs Zadravec has 20 years of working experience in financial markets. It was responsible for maintaining relations with international credit risk assessment agencies, which was a condition for ensuring access to European and global capital markets to the state and all sectors of the economy. It has been active in the work of European labour bodies and associations in the field of debt management and financial market infrastructure. Among other things, she was the Deputy Governor of the Republic of Slovenia at the World Bank. From 2005 to 2009, the Ministry of Finance, as Director-General of the Treasury Directorate, managed the management of sovereign debt, managing the liquidity of the country's single treasury account, preparing a consolidated national and municipal assets balance sheet and monitoring of public financial flows and the payment turnover of budgetary users. In view of the combination of knowledge of domestic and European financial market regulations and infrastructure, knowledge of settlement and payment services, knowledge of the process and degree of integration of the domestic financial system into the common European financial system, knowledge of fiscal policy and the implementation of the financing of the country and the management of liquidity, and from these areas of experience, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to appoint a candidate as Vice-Governor and a member of the Bank's Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no announced presentations of the parliamentary groups to the debate, so we are moving on to the vote on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Act on the Bank of Slovenia appointing Vice-Governors and Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Dr. Luka Juri - SD, Robert Hrovat - SDS, Franci Kek - Really and Guido Kres - SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. The Secretary-General of the Mojca Prelešnik National Assembly will also be involved in the work of this commission. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Banking Act of Slovenia, the proposed candidate will be elected or appointed, if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 4:10 p.m. and will last until 16.25 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u236	We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the consideration of the cut-off point, the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed Magi candidate. Stanislave Zadravec Caprirolo for Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote took place at the Assembly premises on 26 March 2010. 67 votes were distributed, 67 votes were cast, two votes invalid, 65 votes valid. The "yes" was voted by 65 Members and the Members, "no one voted against". On the basis of the outcome of the vote, it was mag. Stanislava Zadravec Caprirolo by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members appointed Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I congratulate the Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and wish her a successful job! We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party had its candidate, but did not receive sufficient support. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I must say that, even in these and similar cases, a narrow political approach has already been demonstrated several times, and sometimes a lobbyist approach in the recruitment of key institutions. Let me remind you that one of these was also the discharge of the Director of APEC, Mr Tomaž Simonič, who was relieved of this function, which is why Slovenia also received a reminder from the European Commission. If anything is unacceptable in Europe, there is human trafficking and interference with regulatory institutions. The Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications is one of those regulators, for which the Slovenian Prime Minister has also stated that he will never intervene in human resources involvement and resolution. Yes, it is. Mr Simonič was relieved of some of the decisions made by the APEC, and this was the reason that this important article, or also an independent body, had been suspended and called another man instead. I think that this is more evidence that particular areas, including the area of electronic communications, are feudalising certain political parties. And the key February political party is indeed the field of energy and the area of electronic communications. Hence, he is virtually gone, and this year and for a few months he would not be relieved for such and other reasons. In the case of the APEK, this is a completely different matter than in the case of other companies where this personnel mega-tsunami is carried out. In the case of APEK, it is a regulatory institution [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u238	No offense, Mr. Mag. Vizjak, APEK is not on the agenda and APEK is not appointed to the Electronic Communications Council [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u239	Yeah!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u240	It's not the same thing, and you know it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u241	However, it is necessary to prepare all appropriate grounds for putting, as with the Electronic Communications Council, its people in the right places, as well as the President-in-Office of the National Assembly. All these things are connected, they're the same part of the strategy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u242	These two things aren't connected, and you and I know it, and that's good!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u243	Of course they are. I would like to point out that, even in the case of the Council for Electronic Communications and the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, it follows the same pattern, i.e. according to the pattern that one is real and ours and that others are not real and are not ours, so it is necessary to get rid of them. Of course, for the implementation of the concept, which, unfortunately, one political party, which has actually received a marginal number of voter confidence and has actually fought to enter parliament, has taken over this feud and is pleased to recruit and consequently interferes with the decisions. I think that we should take all the warnings coming from Europe seriously and not least review the promises made by the rulings at the time of the launch of the mandate, so that they do not engage and will not interfere with the regulatory institutions. We will never agree to such a work in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we also oppose this proposal, which is on the table today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decree to resolve the mag in the Electronic Communications Council. Damjan Copot and his name is Rock Matjaž. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 43 votes against 19. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. I take it that the proposed decree has been adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly on the establishment and assessment of the factual situation with regard to the establishment of issuers, the issuance and financing of the free weeks of the Slovenian Week and Express due to the existence of a suspicion that they were issued with a view to influencing the election of members of the National Assembly in 2008, in favour of the political parties of the then ruling coalition, or because of the existence of a suspicion that it is a covert campaign or financing of political parties. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He shall have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u245	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! When we proposed the establishment of some investigative commissions in the opposition in this mandate, we received strong criticism from the coalition and coalition parties and coalition members, because they always knew that we were doing this only to share the functions. In fact, it is now the coalition that has requested the appointment of the other Commission of Inquiry in this mandate. In fact, the Coalition is the very one who claims that the opposition to this commission of inquiry, as well as the references to extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly or urgent meetings of working bodies, is preparing to impede the work of the coalition, hinder the work of the Government and slow down the work of the National Assembly. Now it's the coalition that put the stakes in the bicycles of the National Assembly. And it is herself who will slow down the work and also the work of the National Assembly. A third of the investigative commissions were set up because of the coalition, although you could sometimes say that the coalition also has other mechanisms of work, not just the investigative commission. I would also like to add here that this investigative commission, whose order you have reached, will not fully process the area. It will process two free people who are supposed to be financed by state-owned companies, owned by a country with more than 25%. Regrettably, however, this review, or this provision, has resulted in the exclusion of those free-of-chargers who are heavily financed by companies owned by a majority of the country or by those companies where the country has more than 25% of the share. As a result, we will also propose to the Commission that the order be duly supplemented to complete the decision of the National Assembly. In the event that this order is not supplemented, we will also withdraw our members from the investigative commission, so that, at the final stage, this investigative committee will be composed only of coalition Members. We believe that some of them are freemen, such as freeman Good morning, not only opinions, but in fact it is so, abundantly financed by companies, such as by means of Mail, by means of Telekom, by means of Slovenian railways. There's a lot of this ad space in them, including a well-paid one. We had an example of a number in which an interview was conducted with Minister Gregor Golobic. In that number, only one company did or had four or five ads. And even Slovenian railways, which are in difficult financial difficulties, are one of the main sponsors of such a freeman. Some electronics are also released. Actually, everybody. Also released are such freemen who have received funds from the tenders for some of their publications, which we have not seen in this mandate. I think it should be established whether this investigation is merely by chance for certain free people whose life expectancy has expired. There are only those freemen who are in favour of the political option, which consists of the current coalition, in which the current coalition has a great influence, for, say, Minister Golobič, who is responsible for electronic communications, has received sponsorship in the number in which he interviewed, I think, Telekom, Mail and many other companies in which the country has an important share. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] We will participate in this commission of inquiry in order to try to change the decision and extend the investigation to other free agents, if this is not possible, we will give up our cooperation. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition, appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the motion for a decision on the appointment of the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u247	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose this Commission proposal for mandate issues for elections and appointments. At the Commission's own meeting, we objected to Dr. Romane Jordan Cizelj's unwarranted or political dismissal as President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. In particular, President Cizljev was the guarantor that, within the framework of the Administrative Committee and within the Fund, the expertise, the dedicatedness of the Fund and was relatively inflexible for some of the proposals of the Ministry of Economy or Director of the Energy Directorate, Mr Janez Kopač, in order to enable the Government to have a greater impact on the functioning of this Fund, which is established by specific law in the National Assembly. It is clear from the proposal for a law that is now in the power to track, i.e. a law that should amend the existing Nuclear Power Plant decommissioning Fund Act, that the Government wants to increase its management of this fund and the funds from this fund. From this proposal, it is more obvious that the Government will have a key word after that, but not any more Parliament, that the structure of the bodies of the Fund will be different and that the government or the Government, as the proposer, will also have a key word. Ladies and gentlemen, with the above-mentioned concept and actions, the Government is apparently going to intervene in the parliamentary competence it has had so far. I am pleased with some Members' assertions that they will not allow the influence of the Government to increase and reduce the influence of Parliament in this regard also in the amendment of the law. We'll see. In fact, however, it is ridiculous and illogical to interfere with the Fund's Management Board before the amendment of the law and before the appointment of the new bodies to be adopted by the new law. So hurry up. It is for one reason alone: the current Director's mandate is expired and the Management Board is key in drafting a proposal for a new Director. And because he failed to manage the Director of the Energy Directorate in order to change the status of the fund, by which the new Ministry was supposed to propose to the Government to appoint a director, he went along the way of replacing the President of the Management Board and will in some way also have an impact on the Management Board itself. Ladies and gentlemen, under the guise of the incompatibilities of the function of a European Member with a function in the Management Board - by the way, this compatibility has not bothered anyone for several years and has also been notified to the anti-corruption commission that the problem has now arisen, a problem has arisen before the appointment and re-election of the new fund director. I think that this is how human toying, toying with the authorities and leading the board of directors goes too far, and it is at the expense of the stability and independence of this fund when we talk about financing the use of active waste and later the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Slovenia has been an example for many countries with nuclear facilities when we are talking about the way money is collected and managed and we are therefore envied by the rules of the decommissioning fund. You are now interfering with it; for the first time in the human resources sense and later in the context of legislative changes. I think this is a step in the wrong direction. We did not participate in the Slovenian Democratic Party and opposed the discharge of the current President, so we will not support the proposal on the table today, after the second man, even though the President is already relieved of this function.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This proposal for the decommissioning fund of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant has, in my opinion, spent almost a year and a half of the Commission's mandate, the most time spent on the substantive debate, not on candidates who will be elected to the Supervisory Committee and now candidates or candidates who will lead the board of directors instead of Mrs Ciselj, but have listened and discussed the status, business, safety of the nuclear power plant. I think if one of those people whose job is to look at magnetograms will get a lot of benefits from these magnetograms. Because some of us who have not been taught that way have also heard much of the benefits. We have also heard a lot of unhelpful things about the feudalization of certain such areas. This fund was evidently one of the feuds that one party had in full authority. Let me also stress at this National Assembly that, on the Commission, several Members assured us that all the insinuations related to the new law that was not yet due and that the intention of the Fund should be changed, that the influence of the National Assembly should be reduced and that the influence of the Government should be increased, that we were quite a few Members who were told on the Commission that we would not allow it. But still, some people keep turning this shit around. This is another proof that this was indeed the feud of someone and with these human resources solutions already in the Supervisory Board when new people arrived and now at the head of the Chairman-in-Office of the Management Board, of course this feud is falling apart and will no longer be able to function. The thesis has been reached that so far, the people who have run and sat on the Supervisory Board and the Administrative Committee are the only ones who have been able to take care of the safety of the nuclear power plant and those who have been able to manage the funds economically. These people, who have come new, have not yet had these opportunities, but they have already been discredited in advance. This is humiliating, these are humble values to people who are put forward by some to put on the pranger and condemn them and give them a label on incompetence, incompetence and so on. Once again, this is really new people who have settled into these two organs and the umbilicalization of this fund will indeed be disrupted. And this really hurts, including some who are sitting in the National Assembly and have held important responsibilities in the previous term, and have also been responsible for this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Tanka, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Well, today we're going to put two new nails in President of the Government's human resources paradigm when he said that there will be no certain types of resolution, but these discharges are happening. One was also responded by the European Commission. As far as approaches are concerned, they are also somehow crystallized, as these direct steps are now being taken, direct solutions are no longer being used, but these auxiliary independent institutions are now being used. In one case, the Court of Auditors, and in this case Kosovo, the pre-trial commission, in that section after five years, has finally found that one of the seven MEPs should not have fulfilled that clause of the Law on Members and the Law of Incompatibilities which prevent him from performing such a task. It was no problem to examine 3,000 municipal councillors who were doing extremely important and responsible work with enormous resources, and it was easy to overlook a few European Members and also a few members of the National Assembly. For in the previous mandate of the NEK Fund Management Board, the Member of the Liberal Democracy served as Chairman of the Management Board. At the time, this matter was not disputed. This mechanism has now been launched, and ambitions have shown that something must happen in this context as soon as the start of the mandate, when, in any way, through the Monitoring Commission, the Fund has been trying to discredit and these investment results, which are also largely dependent on the market situation. And since these criteria, which are comparatively better than the movement of the Slovenian stock exchange, have failed there, an alternative procedure has been used. In these personnel matters, even in these responsible functions, it is extremely important which end of Domžal you come from. If you are at home in the wrong end of Domžal, some sort of personnel procedure is initiated very quickly. And because I am convinced that what is supposed to be happening in the previous term is actually creating a condition that this mandate will take place. He's supposed to be there, and that's supposed to be a suspicion. Now it is likely that, because the Director of the Directorate, Mr Kopač, has made clear that these funds, which are in line, will have to be used in some other way for some other investment. And instead of dealing with the neighbour Croatia, which should also provide an equivalent share as co-owner in our own fund, we are now working on how to clean up the Slovenian part of the fund, replace people, and then redistribute these funds accordingly. Just as you have done in one of the mandates with the gas tolar; in a similar scenario, these matters are being prepared. This is precisely why I will not support this human resources proposal. Nor are there proposals that will come in a similar way, with a similar trend. Even in future, in other cases, I will not support, because professional and quality leadership is required. The fact is that the nobility of investment funds has been significantly better than it is in the current mandate in Kad, but there happens to be a director of Kadak's nephew of one of the MPs in the National Assembly, or it has also been significantly better in this mandate than it is in the Court, and there you have the staff sessions such that they are entirely yours. And there's nothing to dispute if it's not good. However, where the results were true, the procedure had to be initiated with a very quasi-explanatory argument. I won't support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Just now, the final move of this well-thought-out scenario is taking place, how to subordinate yourself to a fund that manages more than 145 million euros. I have to say, this was a well-thought-out, well-planned move, a scenario that you've been carrying out, but I'm assessing that [[...]] Mr. Han, please calm down! Basically, this is totally unnecessary. A few months later, Dr. Romani Jordan Cizel's mandate would have expired, and without so much dust, we could have done that exchange. You have replaced an expert who has received the lascivious title of the European Energy Ambassador of the year, and now you will replace it with a completely different staff to serve your purposes. As usual, you have always looked for reasons or the way that you could suspend someone, either the Court of Auditors or Kosovo, a committee that gives principled opinions. How you behave here, too, shows the fact that you are now his opinion, which legally certainly does not withstand this, that the incompatibilities of Dr. Romane Jordan Cizelj with this function. And it was from this title that you did not follow the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party when we wanted to propose that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or of another independent institution be obtained on its principled opinion, where it would certainly demarcate all those statements that Mr Kos cited. And I'm also asking you why you didn't or why the government didn't follow Kosovo's principled opinion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u254	Colleagues and colleagues, be nice, wait till it's over, and we'll finish the session, or I'll have to interrupt!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr President, for trying to calm them down a little. I know the darkness is bad for you, but give me another two minutes and a half, and I'll finish it. I ask: Why did you not take such a consistent view of the Kosovo Commission when it made it clear in its statement that Mr Križanič's actions when he intervened in the autonomy of the university also had elements of corruption, and no one even discussed it or proposed that the matter be resolved? But here you are a completely banal thought, I can say thinking, but not a legally supported fact, you try to use it to resolve or confirm the new Chairman of the Governing Board. It is now essentially an open way for you to be able or that those who want to operate with a €145 million fund, which, at the time of the management of Dr. Romane Jordan Cizelj, will be able to achieve very good results despite the economic and financial crisis, and thus say that all those words that you have said in the past, that people who run their functions, roles, in a professional way, in no way will you change or resolve. Once again, your duality is manifested, and I now hope that this will also be on your part when you have made sure that you do not support such a law as the Government is supposed to carry out without the control of the National Assembly with this fund, to see whether that word will also be true. I'm afraid not, because many times you played not only us MPs of the National Assembly, but also voters and voters. Now it will be a test again, which I believe will be difficult for you, but let us be aware that the fund for the purpose for which it was established will work, or will work for the good of Slovenia, in the well-being that it will be restored when the power plant ends its operation and even now that nuclear waste needs to be properly stored. I hope that you will not again deal with these funds as is customary, irrational and for completely different purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, I have allowed you not exactly to be in the assembly of the National Assembly, but to finish the discussion. But I have to tell you that it allowed me to listen to her very carefully, but I didn't hear in one word that I would talk about the candidate, but everything else. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In all these explanations, of course, a few answers must be found to the question why we appoint a new Chairman of the Management Board, which is, of course, the answer because the previous President has been resolved. Logically, the question follows is why the previous President was resolved. Because the competent commission found that it was incompatible and did not terminate it itself. There were two ways: either to resign as President of the Management Board or as a Member of the European Parliament. It has decided to remain a Member and thus the incompatibility has in fact been eliminated by a resolution. This raises a question that you have asked several times. Can the Commission find out if she didn't find out five years ago? He can figure it out, it's the answer. In fact, she needs to find out because it makes her law. It's political change, you're talking about political change. How do you replace someone who was politically appointed? The way the procedure is conducted in the National Assembly. It's always about politics when it's decided in the National Assembly. Why so many discussions about the appointment of a new chairman of the board of directors? Because there is a deep-seated fear in you that they will act as your predecessors would have wanted them to. It's hard to take glasses with a dioptry that fits someone else, and they can really mess up the picture. And this is actually happening to you. I don't agree that someone is professional only if they're ours. But if someone else is not an expert, this is true of everyone we discuss. I have even heard from the committee responsible that nuclear safety will be compromised. Nor do I agree that nuclear safety is linked to the fact that the president from the SDS, if not from the SDS, is coming, and that the potential danger is so much greater. If I continue to ask myself, where does this interest come from, the answer was given by you, 145 million euros and of course glasses, a diophria that shows that you no longer have an impact on these 145 million euros and hence fear. At the same time, we could be grateful that we are burdening you with these heavy responsibilities, which you are reminding and you are always talking about 145 million euros. It was said that these two new nails were in the staff paradigm of the Prime Minister. It's a debate, Mr. Tanko. Of course it's a debate. It's a replica, isn't it? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u258	Mr. Kontic, you have a debate. It is as related to the content of the proposal as it was previously.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u259	Yeah, sure. Otherwise, you're gonna have a hard time answering! Otherwise it's hard to answer! Thank you very much, Mr Vizjak, for the applause, because you are applauding yourself with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u260	[[...]] [[From the bench.]] Not to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u261	Yes, thank you very much. Okay, well, I'll take that as a wish to be confused, but you didn't confuse me, Mr. Visac. From your discussion earlier, I could say that the debate was a little confused, but well, let's just leave it. It was said: 2 new nails into the human resources paradigm of the Prime Minister. Once again, I say that the President of the Government of this Human Resources Procedure is not in charge, is being led by the National Assembly and has not been proposed by the President of the Government. But I don't know why I have a feeling, given your debate that when you put these two nails in President's staff paradigm, you got them all over your fingertips. This can probably be seen from the debate I had before the debate I had myself. Despite the fact that you have disturbed me a lot in the debate and usually point to this page when we listen to your discussions - once more or less - let me tell you that we will, of course, support the proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal. We are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the Management Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for President Dimitrij Marjanović for a period until the end of the mandate in 2007 of the appointed Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Explanation of vote, Mr Tanko, on behalf of the Group of Members. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Don't worry, my explanation won't be long. Here you can see that you have a lot of problems with this human resources paradigm. Earlier in the vote on the vice-governance, we saw the President of the Republic, with his staff proposal, speeding up one of the decisions of Minister Križanič when he got rid of his directorate and supervisor at the New Ljubljana Bank. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u264	Mr Tanko, in order to be consistent at least at the conclusion of the meeting, you do not speak of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u265	This is connected, Mr. President. And there we saw that Members of the National Assembly had unanimously supported the proposal of the President of the Republic for a more responsible position than the Director of the Directorate at the Ministry. However, in that case, when we voted on Stanislava Zadravec Caprirolo, we could correct the proposal or the decision or the bad work of, say, the minister. But here we have a case where we can no longer correct this bad decision. And since we cannot correct it, I will not support this proposal either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 14. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We turn to the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption of Corruption Act. The draft decision was submitted for consideration by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve a member of Srečko Friend, the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group in the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act, and Silven Majhenič, the Slovenian National Party's Group, as a member. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Public Fund Act of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities under the regular procedure. On Wednesday, 24 March 2010, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that I have not been warned by the Legislative-Legal Service or the Government that due to the amendments adopted, the bill would be inconsistent. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. Only 43 Members and Members voted and I am proposing Mr Vizjak, and order is also in your hands. [[...]] Before others spoke, you had so much to say, give peace now. Please. I am revoting the draft law in the third reading. We're voting. 42 votes in favour, and Members of Parliament will be voting in five minutes. [[...]] [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] You need five more minutes? [[...]] Okay, then we voted at 5:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-26-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u267	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to vote for the third time on the Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities. We're voting. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Before the vote, your fellow Members and colleagues, in particular the leaders of the parliamentary groups, who know the rules of procedure, you know that procedural proposals cannot be made. [[...]] We have voted twice and will now vote for the third time. We're voting. There are 56 present, 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 15th meeting of the National Assembly.
