ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Janja Klasinc, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Milenko Ziherl, mag. Branko Grims, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Janez Janša, Anton Kolarič, Mirko Brulc from 3.30 p.m., Vili Rezman, Bogdan Barovic, Zvone Černač from 3 p.m. on, Rado Likar, Franz Bogovich and Mag. Franz Žnidaršič and Joseph Jerovšek. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all other agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 29 March 2010. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[It's 65 votes.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. Procedurally. Yeah, well, maybe first of all, I'd say, first of all, that I suggest we interrupt the meeting in 15 minutes, because the report of your mother's working body has not yet been delivered to you on the bench. Mr. Tanko, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Since you have already announced the suspension of the sitting, I would suggest that we clear up another matter. On 16 March, we received a request with the signatures of Members to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The material submitted here is dated 8. 3. Unfortunately, this material is not written in the Slovenian language because it is missing, practically in all the text, roofs on the letter C. So now we have "options", and we have "budget" and we have "clan" and so on. I ask what text of the proposed law has been discussed on the working body and by which text we will work. Unfortunately, this request for an extraordinary meeting was also signed by some eminent Members, including the Slavs, with this lack of non-Slovenian material. It is no longer surprising to me that in the National Assembly we also adopt laws in which an explicit provision is made that knowledge of the Slovenian language is no longer necessary. And before we proceed with any further consideration of this, the honourable President would ask that someone clarify whether this material, which has been submitted as a request for an extraordinary meeting with the signatures of the Members and the accompanying text of the law, is the basis for the work of the National Assembly and its working bodies, whether any changes have been made in this process, and we have not been informed by the Members of the National Assembly. I also ask for this explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u3	Good. You can also get a detailed explanation after the meeting. But none of the competent authorities who have to take care of the correct and proper input have responded, and the procedure has been carried out as it has been done. By assessing that the shortage of foresters and mammals in the material is serious, I would say negligence, but certainly not a substantive procedural error. Mr. Tanko, you won't get another word. If additional requirements are needed, you will receive this explanation in the session below. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is very important to me because the indications of places with the letter "c" are also not correctly written. It's not just that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u5	Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u6	It's interesting that you have Catež, instead of Catež, that you have Decia vas instead of the Children's Village. These places aren't here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u7	So you yourself found out that Deca's going to the village for Children's Village and Catež for Catež [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u8	That's right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u9	And the problem is solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Dear President, he's not relieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u11	Mr. Tanko, thank you very much. We'll resume the session at 2.20 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Colleagues and colleagues! Continue with the adjourned session Before we move on to the 1st item of the agenda, I would like to say that the report is ready and you will get it on the bench. That is why I propose that we proceed. At the time of the presentation, the report will be on the table. That way, we'd continue the session unless someone was against it. Before I give the floor to Mr Jelinčič's procedural proposal, I am obliged to clarify the procedural question raised by Mr Tanko. The speakers transferred the text you received in the initiative, not in the request, from the Lotus Notes database to the word document. And here sometimes it happens to lose the roof on the letter "c". Since this is, say, a beautiful and not a substantive flaw, the text is considered authentic. In the basic law that was introduced at the Lotus Notes base, the text is perfectly correct and as such relevant and you can get it from all Members. This is the text of Lotus Note and you have received it in physical form by all Members. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u13	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable President of the National Assembly! It's not an initiative, it says "Request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly". That's not an initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Well, certainly, it does.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u15	That's a request. So you've already commented on that in college. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u16	I've got you fixed up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u17	And even now. [[...]] The second thing is that we have two versions of the text, because this text, which is attached to the request, has a date of 8 March 2010 and that of Lotus Notes, has a date of 11 March 2010. It's the difference that matters. And I'm actually interested in who replaced this material. Since a request for a meeting of the National Assembly has been made, it shall be dealt with on the basis of what is being tabled and of what is annexed to the explanatory memorandum. However, it seems that something happened at this feast in the National Assembly that, although we have a formal request from 24 signatories, the material is completely third, three days later attached, or government material that was later submitted. It's a lot of inconsistencies. And I don't think the explanation you gave matches the actual condition. And I want to know what the material is that's being treated. If this is the case, for example, in Article 2 of the text, then Saint George next to Ščavnica is not Saint Yuri near Scavnica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Mr. Tanko, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u19	It is necessary to arrange matters properly. However, the material was signed by Members when it was filed on 8 March 2010. You can see that from what you've put forward. And if this material isn't real, then I'm also interested in who called for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Who convened an extraordinary meeting, if not Members, of the 24 Members who contributed material with 8. 3 This is the question then that we do not have a caller here at all. [[..]] The College has not ordered this because the request or the meeting is determined at the request of Members, 24 signatories from coalition parties, plus Jakob Presečnik. And I don't understand that these Members can submit material on date 8. 3. and you refer to a material that has a date of 11. 3 I want to explain. [[..]] Who called the meeting? What material? And why do these mistakes occur in the National Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Very simple, short. The official text is in Lotus Notees. And this text you've got at your disposal all of you. A meeting of 25 Members shall be convened and the meeting shall have proper input and shall be valid. We have thus concluded this debate. Procedurally wanted Mr. Victory Jelinčič noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Day 14. 3. your statement, Dnevnik.si, has been published in the Journal that there is no trade in votes in Parliament, as I have said, nothing unusual about this being unheard of. And you said, "I think this is a very disrespectful act, that Mr. Jelinčič, his own practice, which he obviously used [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u22	First warning!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u23	and then more times - I will explain, Mr President - repeatedly rustled, tried to expand and entangle [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u24	Mr. Jelinčič, second warning!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u25	all Members and Members of the Assembly of the State. [[...]] Yesterday, Mr President, we have learned from the media that a complaint has been filed against you personally, Mr Paul Gantar, against Mr Luke Jury and against Minister Gjerkash for the suspicion of a crime of bribery and in this regard against Mr Gregor Veselek, Director of Luke Koper, for the bribery. I would ask you, Mr President of the National Assembly, to exempt yourself in this case from the suspicion of criminal offences both in the conduct of the National Assembly in this matter and in the voting on this matter. I also think it would make sense to do the same with Mr Yuri. I believe that we do not have two vats in Slovenia to measure certain matters, one for opposition Members and one for coalition Members, especially if they are the first of the same as you, Mr President. So I suppose it would make sense, or if I used your words, that it would be unheard of otherwise if you did not do so to leave the leadership of the National Assembly at this point to someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Mr. Jelinčič, that's probably what you'd want, but it's not going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u27	I know it won't happen. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u28	We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF CITIZENS AND THE DETERMINATION OF THEIR AREAS - reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The Proposal for a Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas shall technically conclude the procedures for the establishment of municipalities which have been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government in the National Assembly. A reduced procedure for the adoption of law is proposed as the proposal is based on the procedure for the establishment of municipalities as laid down in the Law on Local Self-Government and the previous procedure already carried out in the National Assembly and the referendums by which the will of the inhabitants has been established. The bill is only a result of previous procedures. In the context of the previous procedure, the National Assembly found that the areas of the proposed municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna met the conditions for setting up. In order to establish new municipalities, the will of the population in these areas was expressed at referendum 8. 11. In 2009, 956 voters or 55.45% voted in favour of the establishment of the new Ankaran Municipality, based in Ankara. 1306 voters or 88.24% voted to establish a new Mirna Municipality based in Mirna. In proposing the Municipality of Ankara, the question of whether the new division takes into account the interests of the Italian national community and allows them to participate in the proposed local self-government community, as provided by the Constitution. The expert opinion is that the establishment of the Municipality of Ankara does not reduce the rights of members of the Italian national community, which are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal to establish the municipality of Ankara does not indicate the purpose of the deterioration of the situation of the Italian national community. The law provides that one member of the first municipal council shall be elected by Italian nationals on the basis of a special electoral right as their representative. The draft law also includes a change to the name of the municipality of Sveti Jurij, to the municipality of Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides that the name of the municipality shall be determined as a rule in the central settlement, which is normally also the seat of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Renata Brunskole to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister with his fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues! At its 13th urgent meeting today, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure. At its 55th meeting, on 16 March, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 26 March, the opinion of the Commission on the National Community, of 29 March, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, of 30 March, and the opinion of the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper on the procedure for the adoption of the draft law, of 18 March, as well as the opinion of the municipality of Trebnja and the opinion of the municipality of Sveti Jurij. Representatives of the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, the President of the Commission for National Communities and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service attended the meetings. The representative of the Government, State Secretary Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan, explained in an additional introductory explanation of the articles of the bill that the Government had proposed the adoption of the law after a reduced procedure. The representative of the Government, Minister for Local Self-Government Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, told me about all of the above and about the determination of the referendum of the people in the future new municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna and about the change in the name of the municipality of Sveti Jurij in Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica. In its opinion, the legislature found that the proposed law constituted a legislative implementation of the decisions taken under the so-called prior procedure for the establishment of municipalities and the establishment of their areas. In doing so, she specifically pointed out that the legislative procedure is determined by the time limit referred to in Article 14, paragraph 14, of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides that the procedure for the change of the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality must be completed no later than 3 months before the time limit laid down in the law governing local elections. The Commission supported the bill for the national community, but in its opinion it drew attention to the position of representatives of the indigenous Italian national community, which they also submitted in their written opinion, which they had previously sent to the National Assembly. The Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported the proposal for a law in work concerning the establishment of a new congregation of Mirna and the renaming of the municipality of Sveti Jurij to the municipality of Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica. However, the Commission did not support the proposal for a law in work defining the establishment of a new congregation of Ankaran. Opinions were shared in the debate today on support for the proposed law in the points relating to the establishment of new municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna. On the one hand, it was expressed the view that it was the ethical responsibility of Members and Members of the National Assembly to establish municipalities in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government and the positive referendum results in the area of proposed new municipalities in the final legislative phase of the procedure for setting up the Municipality of Ankaran and Mirna. Various opinions were expressed in the discussion on the possible interpretation of the referendum results, particularly in the area of the Municipality of Koper, where voters decided to divide the municipality in the area of Ankaran, while also establishing a new municipality. The Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1, in the first paragraph, to delete the text referred to in point 1a, the new municipality of Ankara and then the continuation of this Article, as well as the deletion of the text in the second paragraph, the third percentage and the introductory phrase of the fourth paragraph. It is also Article 3 that the words "Fifteenth day" are replaced by the words "next day". However, the Committee did not accept the amendment proposed as its own to Article 2, which is to delete the settlement of Ankaran from the municipality of Koper. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We do not have a unified position and change in the Zares Group on the issue and the law that we are dealing with today. Especially in that part that touches on the establishment of two new congregations. But I can say that we will support the change in the name of the congregation that is proposed. Of course, we are very embarrassed because there are arguments "for" and there are hard arguments also "against"Not at the principal level does not support the establishment of new municipalities, we do not support further fragmented municipalities, and of course we are disappointed that we have failed in the coalition to prepare such changes early enough to tighten the conditions for further fragmentation and establishment of new municipalities, but the situation here has gone its own way and we have various arguments on the table. Some are dominated by one, some are dominated by others, and above all, it is clear that we are in considerable embarrassment because the referendum that was carried out tells us that it should be taken into account. The situation, we can say, is complex, also intertwined, in a way that is intertwined with interests. We see what's going on at the edge of this story, so that there will be no single position of the sending Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President, Minister with colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u37	As the minister said, this concludes the process of establishing municipalities for the government, I don't think so. We know that a complaint is pending before the Supreme Court or a request for a review of the second decision of the Administrative Court and today's law, by adopting today's law, open the way for a complaint to the Constitutional Court. Anyway, let me start in a row. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that by establishing new municipalities we will support significantly better development in those areas. This is evidenced by the facts, which is demonstrated by the municipalities in the last four mandates, and is proved by citizens and citizens, since to date there has been no requirement for a merger of the congregation. It is true, however, that there is a great need to establish landscapes from day to day, from year to year, which this coalition obviously does not want and is not able to come up with any proposal that the opposition could either support or criticise. In the Slovenian People's Party we will support amendments and additions to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities. At the same time, we will support the amendment that we have prepared for the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas, which is the only logical one, since on the working body where the first amendment was rejected, it has therefore not been voted down and on the second, the vote has not been decided, puts the matter in an irregular position. We would have expected, however, that the National Assembly had already decided by 39 votes in favour of the referendum that today, the establishment of the congregation, yes or no, would not be discussed. One of the MPs or some of the members of the coalition cried on the committee, just so much so that we didn't lend them the handkerchiefs, why it wasn't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Mr Pukšič, the position of the SLS Group, please, not the handkerchiefs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u39	adopted such legislation which would allow for some other procedure. [[...]] In the Slovenian People's Party, which we are in this mandate in the opposition, we do not have the possibility of having an impact on the amendment of legislation. Otherwise, we have already tried some good proposals for laws, and the power policy has not led to a vote. In view of the fact that at the same time two referendums were held, where 55% of the Ankarans decided to establish a municipality and 75% against the dispersion of the Koper municipality, their decision was consistent and logical, since there was no municipality of Ankaran in the Koper settlement proposal. They are not for such a separation, where the congregation of Ankaran would not be, but they are for the independent congregation of Koper. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would expect at least the principle of Members and Members, who like to invoke very much, we will respect the will of the people. In this case, then, twice the people’s will, what they want, and how they want it to be perfectly clear. It is true, however, that there has also been a violation of equality, equality and arbitral decision in the National Assembly in all other cases in this case. Even more so, in connection with the decision of the National Assembly, it was stated that even the recession, which is currently the problem of the locality of the world, would affect several individual municipalities in which the arbitral decision was made and the municipality of Mirna would not be affected by the recession. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will be in principle, as we always have, and as I said, we will support the establishment of new congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas. We have before us a proposal for a law that decides on the amendment of the Law establishing municipalities and on the establishment of their territories, which provides that the 200th municipalities, the existing municipalities, will be joined by two more, namely the Municipality of Mirna and the Municipality of Ankaran. In the DeSUS Group, we oppose the fragmentation of congregations into smaller ones, and we believe that small congregations that already exist should be encouraged to unite. This is also the general and principled position of the Government and the Ministry. The fact is that since the current 200 existing municipalities, more than half of them do not meet one of the basic conditions, namely they do not reach the number of 5,000 inhabitants. In view of the differences in the size of the congregations, there are also major qualitative differences between them. We can therefore rightly ask ourselves here whether all citizens in such different municipalities have equal opportunities to access all public services or to exercise their rights. At the same time, it is important to note one of the biggest problems of local self-government. This is a problem of funding municipalities. The revenue of the congregations has been increasing so far. But this year will be the first time they'll fall. An even greater fall due to the way in which income is taken into account can be expected in the following year, 2011. Revenues are falling tremendously. However, there is an increase in expenditure on the social side, where the municipality is also obliged to provide funds for its citizens. It is necessary to provide funds for the implementation by law of certain tasks of municipalities, and there is increasingly less funding for development tasks, for investments, in particular investment maintenance in schools, kindergartens and so on. As we say, in the DeSUS Group, we will support the gathering of small congregations, not further fragmentation. Because of our firm stand on opposition to the division of congregations into smaller ones, we are currently in a crossroads in the Desus Group. In favour of possible support for the novel proposal, we are told the results of a referendum where the majority expressed the will of the people to set up both new municipalities. We are told against the support of the novel about the sense of fragmentation of Slovenia in the mini-community, and this is what I have already talked about. If two new municipalities are to be set up today, we rightly expect that this is, however, the end of a process that is dictated by interests, even when there is a political background, for the establishment of new municipalities, and that after this stage we will see what is happening throughout Europe, that is to say, the integration of municipalities, their joint administrations, the reduction of the costs of functioning of small municipalities and thus their greater efficiency. It is because of this rift that I have been talking about that we will vote in the Group today in our own conscience and our own conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, one would expect to go to Slovenia to unite municipalities, not to break municipalities, but to look on the other side that we have the municipality of Osilnica, which has about 400 people, and on the other hand we would not allow Ankara to have its municipality, which was actually voted at a referendum, which is the highest form of democracy, then we should not allow it. That is why we support the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran. I don't know, it's true that some of the previously mentioned gentlemen have even stalled under Director Luke Koper's directive by putting the law into discussion so that, like the actual complaint of a crime, they can even get money to somehow get rid of this law. I hope that Mrs. Kresalova will immediately launch an investigation into Mr. Luke Yuri, Paul Gantar and Minister Gjerkash to join the telephone connections. Anything possible, up, down, left, right, their parents. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Mr Jelinčič, do you have the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group on the draft law that we are considering? The microphone's open. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Thank you so much for opening the microphone. I have a point of view, and I'm just explaining it, even though it hurts to explain it in a slightly different way. It is true that I am not in your political option, I am not in the coalition, but, Mr President, this does not give you the right to deny me the possibility of a statement on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Slovenian national parties. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u48	I will interrupt you again to let you know if you deal with the so-called suspicion of corruption, which also flies in my name, I will do something that I never, of course, think I will do as a political official. [[...]] And that's that I'm going to sue you for honor and a good name. Now go on. So much so that you know in advance!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I also understand why, one hour after the broadcast yesterday, Mr Trav was dismissed from the Council on Channel A and why Mr Slak had to resign today. Mr. President of the National Assembly, you may be offended, but I've got a bunch of theater money here, and I'm leaving it here on the table as one such symbolic [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please get this worthless piece of paper out of the stage. Somebody come and pick it up. This can be picked up by the bringer himself, given that he has the form of money.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u51	'Cause I'm supposed to give you a lot of money. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u52	The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u53	It seems like we have a point at which we are supposed to relax to have fun, but I believe we are talking about a very serious matter, we are talking about the fact that this same National Assembly, in the process envisaged for changing the areas of the municipalities, has sent voters and voters to the referendums and has received the results and has become familiar with these results. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that we will not be able to avoid certain definitions of "for" or "against" just because someone is loved and less so that more congregations will be than they are now. That many debates will primarily be emotional and try to prove how the only thing that is written in the law is that, by the express will of the electorate, we also establish two new congregations. It is not easy today to answer those who have already been in the process of changing the areas of their municipalities, but have not obtained these rights, whether they have not met the conditions or whether this has happened arbitrarily. However, when it comes to this stage in which we are now not on Members and Members, we are so confident in our House of Members that we say that we have tried the will of people, what do you think, because we did not believe in the arguments when you proposed to go along the path of changing municipal borders, and now we have learned this and we are ending the matter here. We must not approve of doing this in our conviction. And that's playing people's will. We believe in the House of Members that it is necessary to go legally and, if you wish, legitimately or otherwise, to conclude this procedure, we also believe that everyone will vote in his conscience, as I have heard several times today. We have agreed with us that the conclusion of this process is naturally in such a way that the law must be supported, including the amendment that has been tabled. And this is what gives us the hope that the word in the National Assembly will be about local self-government, about powers, about financing and similar things, and very soon. It is undeniable that all previous actions in recent years have always returned to the criteria for setting up municipalities, for financing, for landscapes, for integration, for greater efficiency in both municipalities and local self-governments as well, but always, in all mandates, we somehow attach something to force when it comes to one congregation more or one congregation less. We have also joined these changes in local self-government with the ambition of starting a reverse process, as has already been said here today, by having expressed the will of the leaders of the municipalities, such as Šentrupert and Mokronog, Trebelno and some of the local communities of the present municipality of Trebnje, to form a joint association called the Miren Valley, one municipality where they have many joint projects and also, as we know, some of the things relating to municipal infrastructure and similar, are being prepared together, projects are being made, applications are being made for funding. And similarly, that is what, according to our firm conviction, will also be necessary in other areas, and we believe that this will be an example. Unfortunately, the procedure has come to the conclusion that this path, two referendums in two municipalities plus the secession of a local community, could present some problems in the legislative sense, so this has not happened now. We believe this will happen in the future. We'll support, as we say, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] The marriage, and all the other things that are yet to come, are not the agenda. [[...]] I think that the law on local self-government, which will change the criteria, is already in the procedure and there is something else in the hands, and we will support it then.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of National Communities will be presented by Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The injustice continues. The error was, of course, made when voting for a referendum in the possible congregation of Ankaran. I'll tell you from the point of view of the Italian national community what's broken. First of all, the marriage deadline is now defined by the Government as instructional, but not as plausible. The reference is made to the fact that in the past several municipalities were established after the expiry of the time limit provided for in the law. This means that a violation of the law in the past allows violations to continue. We know that in the courts, non-compliance with deadlines means a statute of limitations, which has certain consequences. That doesn't apply here. It is broken, and it is very harsh, Article 5, of the Law on Local Self-Government, because the possible municipality of Ankara does not provide the basic conditions for the exercise of the rights of the Italian national community. And this is mainly the lack of school and kindergarten with Italian learning language. When we set up congregations, I was against them, but when we set up congregations in Prekmurje, all those congregations also have bilingual primary education or for the needs of the Hungarian national community. There's no such thing in this case. There is a violation of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, since the possible municipality of Ankaran does not have 5,000 inhabitants, a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants may be established, but under certain conditions. And these conditions are geographical, border, national, historical or economic. None of these conditions are met by the possible congregation of Ankaran and at least by the nationalities. Even if we take them individually, even if only one were to hold them, none of these conditions are met in the possible congregation of Ankaran. The peninsula is a geographical unit, the Ankaran peninsula is a geographical unit, along with Croatia. There's no history at all. That village has existed since 1980. It was never something of its own. Never in the 2000s history of Koper. There are no economics, the only economic analysis we have is the one given by the congregation of Koper, and this says that there are clear economic consequences for the establishment of such a congregation. The government does not talk about it, nor does it tell us where the economic reasons for setting up the congregation of Ankaran are. The boundaries are not defined as one of the reasons why a congregation should be established. On the contrary. When demarcating Italy, unity was just one of the arguments for such demarcating as it had been achieved. I am running out of time, and in the debate I will tell you what is being violated in this work and what degree of injustice is essentially inducing in the population and especially in relation to the Italian national community. We don't have legal certainty in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have been opposed to the excessive fragmentation of Slovenia, according to our assessment, by a small local community since the beginning of the reform in the field of local self-government. In doing so, we are aware of the desire of individual parts that, on the basis of the territorial reform undertaken so far, we too would like to have our own congregation. The reasons behind this thinking and request and, of course, the proposals are different. Most often they are concerned with dissatisfaction about the status and, consequently, the financial position their settlement has over the rest of the present congregation. What is important to highlight is, of course, existing legislation in the field of community funding. That's what we've been alerting you to from the very beginning. When the sum of the incomes of both municipalities is higher than the income of the municipality, it is of course self-evident that residents and residents want to take part in theirs. There is usually dissatisfaction with the existing local community leadership and the cards are folded. However, this raises the question whether Slovenia can do this, or whether public finances can hold it back. The argument of practice so far is also repeatedly cited as the reason for the establishment of a new municipality. Why did you set up a congregation that also did not meet the criteria, and why did you set up a congregation that has fewer inhabitants and so on? This means, of course, that this process will never end and that 212 is not the last number yet. We have drawn attention to all of this when deciding on the call for a referendum. It was so clear to defend the position of people to decide. And now these people have made up their minds. They decided as they did, and you decided about the new municipalities, in fact, those who voted in favour of the referendum. In the Group of Social Democrats, the majority will not support today's proposal, both the amendment and the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! The process of establishing new municipalities in this mandate from the beginning of today's final vote, which will take place, shows the extent to which this coalition is committed to the principle, the right path is the right path and how the coalition takes into account the voice of the people, the will of the people expressed in the referendum. Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government specify the conditions which must be met in order to begin the procedure for the establishment of a new municipality at all. The coalition did not respect these conditions consistently because it did not call for a referendum in Loča, Frame and Zgornji Polska, although these municipalities had a larger population than, say, the Municipality of Mirna or Ankaran. Two even significantly more. Also in appeals before administrative courts, these candidates were successful, and the administrative courts gave the National Assembly the opportunity to take a re-examination examination to decide, but also in these re-decisions the coalition did not impose on the views or decisions of the administrative courts in these three cases, which is very interesting. And that just confirms there's no legal way. A referendum was held in Mirna and Ankaran. In both cases, the consultative referendum was successful. Article 90 of the Constitution makes it very clear that the Council of State is bound by the outcome of the referendum. However, obviously in this coalition, not only does the law mean nothing, nor does the Constitution mean anything, nor could it be possible for the working body to vote on a decision contrary to the decision of the people and contrary to Article 90 of the Constitution. That's pretty obvious. The Coalition also notes that the key objective of each regulation of a social relationship is to deepen democratisation and bring people's decision-making closer together. However, this is in the coalition agreement, the practice is quite different in specific cases. Not only is direct decision-making prohibited in the referendums, even when the referendum decisions are clear and well-known, but this coalition is able to make a different decision. But there is something else to be said here. The oldest unrealised decision of the Constitutional Court concerns the division of the Municipality of Koper. Indeed, in some cases where the referendum was opened, the referendum failed but succeeded in Ankara. It is clear that this coalition is unable to materialise even a referendum decision based on a decision of the Constitutional Court. No problem is the implementation of the constitutional decision in deleted cases, no problem is in any other dispute, but the problem is to realize the referendum will and the decision of the Constitutional Court in the case of the Municipality of Koper. Here it is more than obvious that there is a coalition to suspend both legality and constitutionality. And this coalition quickly declares it unconstitutional and illegal, for example, an act if the Attorney General calls one criminalist and asks him how the process is going on in an awkward case, possibly for coalition, and it is declared unconstitutional and illegal. When, in fact, we want to achieve this, or this same illegality, this coalition does not recognize those where it actually violates both the law and the Constitution. And I hope that this time you will vote "cum laude", with a medal, that is to say, you will support the proposal to establish new municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I am moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. Before going formally to the debate, I would like to say that we have two amendments tabled: the first is the amendment with the first-signed France Yuri and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, which are identical in content. We will discuss them and vote together. We have yet another amendment to Article 1 for which a correction is foreseen. Until correction, we cannot know whether this amendment will be identical or not, or whether the first two amendments will be excluded with the third or the third amendment will be excluded with the first two. As long as we don't get a fix, I'll be adjourning the session in 15 minutes, which we'll continue at 15.26 p.m. [[...]] Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President! If the amendments tabled are duly lodged with Article 1, then there is no need for you to withdraw the matter. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u62	The SDS Group's amendment has been withdrawn. We can therefore turn to the article on the amendments tabled. As I said, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed France Yuri and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. As it is said, the amendments are identical in content. The only difference is the forecast statement and the explanation for both. That is why, clearly, we will discuss together and also vote together on both amendments. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has Roberto Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. As regards the decision on the unconstitutionality of the Municipality of Koper, the Government also acknowledges that the possible establishment of the municipality of Ankaran is going in a direction which, legally speaking, I do not know what it means, but the Government does not hope to say that this is a realisation of the decision. Because it's not. The decision states that the dispute between the municipality of Koper is due to the discrimination between the city centre, of which Ankaran is a part, and the hinterland, which is rural. Ankaran is not a rural part of the Municipality of Koper. This problem with the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran is not solved. The municipality remains unconstitutional. However, there are serious reasons for proving the unconstitutionality of the congregation of Ankaran. I respect the deep dissatisfaction of the people in Ankara, which has in some way proved to be in the referendum, but it is necessary to know that this is related to the opposition of a certain mayor's policy in Cyprus. And this dissatisfaction was spread in the workplace when it comes to relations with Luka and in the work when it comes to opposition to the mayor in Koper. These people, who now have some ambitions, and who do not live in Ankara, have spread this dissatisfaction out of political ambition. This is not the legal reason for setting up one congregation. It is necessary to defeat the mayor's elections and to resolve the problems that exist in Ankara in this regard. And let us not forget that we are talking about a coastal area where the lands and changes in their purpose are a golden pit. And that there is a variety of changes on this basis in the full personal interests of individuals, which has nothing to do with local self-government, to the greater extent with what other phenomena we know. As far as the Italian national community is concerned - it has, under this legislation, and stops its representations, its representative bodies, those elected by all, in Cyprus as well, by all members of the national community who have the right to vote. Their legitimacy and legitimacy are not questionable and must not be questioned because it is such and the national community is organised and performed in accordance with the laws. Read article 15 of the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities. Since 1994, the national community has always opposed the fragmentation of the national mixed area or the Koper Congregation in those parts. This isn't about this mayor, that mayor, that color, that color. This simply stems from the awareness that any fragmentation of this area makes the national community so weak. There is no particular form of national community organisation in Ankara at this time. The Italians from Ankara were against vaccination through the position of the self-government national community Koper, through the positions of the Italian community Croatian-Ankaran, because they are united there, there is a school. There will always be an individual who will either sign or want to be a member of the congregation. But not through the legitimate representations of the national community. This should be taken into account because this is part of the legislation, the system, the arrangements. No one took that into account. At least the government. And there is also a coalition treaty where there is a small part that speaks of the government committing itself to taking into account the views of the national communities. The answer was, "Go to the Constitutional Court." That's the interpretation of the legislation with us. Look, there are ideas in Trieste that Trieste would turn into so-called [[in Italian]] "Area Metropolitana." It would be a wider city unit, say so, and the Slovenian municipalities around Trieste object. Why do they object? Because their role is divorced in such a concept. Here, however, the national mixed area and thus the Italian national community are being broken and a precedent for the entire coastal zone is being created. The powerful Municipality of Koper is already better and easier to resist those ambitions of Luke, which are legitimate, which essentially interfere with the urbanity of space. They're interfering with the quality of life. It's much better to run smart policies than some fragmented units. Because we have such a historical situation there that it's not the city around Luke, but Luke was created around the city, it's the other way around. In short, there is no legal basis, and there is no need. If we place the negative effects of the setting up of the congregation of Ankaran with positive effects on the scale, there is nothing left of the positive ones. And the best service to the people in Ankara would be done if this remained a strong and unified city unit, which can better, if true policies were to be pursued, also pursues its special interests - interests that must be the interests of the whole community, which are public interests, not the interests of political or other individuals. And this project was born for these reasons, not because of public good and public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As a motion for an amendment, I would like to base this amendment, which practically brings the text back to its original state and allows the establishment of two municipalities on the basis of a clear result of the consultative referendums. Otherwise, we would find ourselves with a text that would be disabled, which should be harmonised, because, as you know, there has been a vote on the committee, a separate vote on the two amendments, so the text would now be unharmonised. As a proponent of the then Ankaran referendum, I would like to clarify some of the aspects that are constantly emerging and recurring in all the debates, all the opinions, regardless of the fact that everyone involved in this debate has his own arguments, has sound arguments that must be taken into account, of course, and should be heard and then put in place an opinion. I created it a few months after I was contacted by the Signatories of the initiative to establish the congregation of Ankaran when they collected 650 signatures. For those who come from the Municipality of Koper, we know that such an initiative does not arise without a specific risk, since everyone who is exposed to the name and signature of such a petition is suffering from a variety of pressures and revenge. I therefore assessed that this initiative was largely courageous. I don't know what kind of background some people really like to talk about. There are many reasons in real estate, in the economic interests of individuals. Of course, we can spread the diaspora of these interests, and we will find mirror images of those who advocate something like those who oppose it. And if we place on the scale the actual specific weight of such interests, it is likely that the interest on the part of opposers of the congregation of Ankara is significantly greater. There is talk of a large economic system, of a large economic society which has the legitimate right to draw attention to certain consequences of the creation of a new entity in the territory that this economic operator will have to face. And that's a fact. We all know that the President of the administration, Luke Koper, pointed to some scenarios, the consequences that might have arisen when the municipality was established. And from the point of view of the businessman, from the manager's point of view, the calls are understandable. From the point of view of policies coming from that point of view, and which is also obliged to listen to civil society, countries and their tribulations, it is legitimate thinking in a different direction. What exactly is the public interest? Personally, I believe that it is not necessarily the public interest that comes from the accounts of an undertaking, but that these interests need to be combined with the interests of the directly affected population. And that's what this is all about. After six months of hesitation and reflection, I decided then to provide this initiative to the National Assembly. The prerequisite for this was respect for the law, i.e. legality and constitutionality, including, in particular, the work relating to the Italian national community. Only when I realized that it was in the documentation, in the laboratories prepared by the group of initiators, did I decide to continue this intervention. And what exactly is the pillar of ensuring national rights that go after the stop of the inhabitants, including the inhabitants of Italian nationality in the area? What is written in the documents of the founder or initiator. For the first time, bilingualism and this throughout the entire territory of the emerging Ankaran municipality will be the first and only municipality in Slovenia, which will also be bilingual in its entirety. Secondly, the establishment of a self-governing Italian community as a pillar of self-governance of nationality in the territory. Thirdly, the presence, which is also enshrined in the law, the presence of a special saint of Italian nationality in the thirteen-member congregation council. What will be and what will be the needs, special needs and special rights to be implemented in this territory will be decided within these frameworks. I hope that, in close cooperation with the coastal self-government community of the Italians and also with the municipal self-government community of the Italians, which I think will be good if it takes over or adopts a dialogue with the incoming municipality, because there are no other options. Here we will have to sit down and draw up a plan for further work. About schools and kindergarten. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government, each municipality in a national mixed area must ensure specific rights of nationality, without mentioning what and what these special rights of nationality must be. I've already mentioned some of them. School and kindergarten is a right that must be guaranteed by the municipality. The Municipality of Ankaran does not yet exist, there is only the Municipality of Koper. The Municipality of Koper did not provide a branch within the primary school in Ankara, but it considered that there was no need to do so and opened a branch or maintained a branch in the local community of Croatia. If there is a need to open this branch or school and kindergarten in Ankara, the new congregation will be obliged to do so. This means that, in addition to the existing status quo they now have, the new municipality also offers an Italian nationality instrument with which it is possible to implement these additional rights in the territory where these families live. Things don't always go smoothly and automatically. It is necessary to ensure that this will is expressed and that this will is respected. With regard to the alleged unconstitutionality which would remain in the municipality of Koper even if the establishment of the Ankaran municipality occurred, there is no need for a constitutional lawyer to determine that the decision of the Constitutional Court concerns the present Cypriot municipality. As soon as this municipality changes its borders, this Decision shall no longer apply. I repeat, this decision is consummated at that time, is an ad acta. The municipality is no longer unconstitutional, a new procedure needs to be initiated to determine whether that congregation is still unconstitutional or is already constitutional. Talk to the constitutional lawyers and you'll see if that's not the case. Third and key issue: the attitude towards people. There was a lot of talk today, and I finally heard a few words of respect for those people who gave themselves up at the consultation referendum. We, as politicians, are obliged to respect the will expressed. We're not committed. We can make a different decision. It was a consultative, not a legislative referendum. But if we feel that the consultative referendum is non-digatious, let's make an agreement to put an end to it as soon as possible. However, if it exists as an institute, politicians have a duty to respect and respect certain political ethics. And that's the attitude to such referendums. If the establishment of this congregation were unconstitutional and illegal, this referendum would not be reached. We put through all the procedures under the legal procedure that was confirmed earlier in the Government, then in the National Assembly twice, when we voted in favour of the referendum and after we confirmed the outcome of the referendum in the National Assembly. Finding out that everything is unconstitutional and illegal today is not serious. It's not serious. It is as the commentator of the Primorski novice wrote today, ringing the bell. Here is the question of the seriousness of a policy which is so curly, which at some point commits itself to taking into account any will, and a few weeks later, after one letter, changes the opinion, which is the legitimate right of every policy, but here we can have different views on whether it is the policy that citizens and citizens expect from us. There is also so much opacity about the operation of Luke Koper that there is actually a need for greater clarity. For this reason, we have asked for a first audit, a serious audit, and the continuation of investigations into those issues concerning Luka Koper, in both the Really Party and the Kore Committee for a year and a half. Of course, we do not associate this with the issue of Ankaran. But the fact is that the system that worked for decades was based, irrespective of the color or the customers who ruled in the municipal municipality, on the related trade between Luke Koper's large economic system, which is of national importance and we are all aware of it, and the local authority. And on that route, everything was going on. The locals and the locals were neglected, less important when they warned when they did not want, say, bulky cargo. That is why I believe that this situation is a good opportunity to change this system too, to open up the opportunity for the countries that are most directly affected to tell their names when planning the development of Luka Koper within and inside Kopra, perhaps the emerging municipality of Ankara, which has one of the most beautiful coasts of our Slovenian Istria. And that's what this is about. I, as Koprčan, want to watch this peninsula to Fat Rtič unturned in the next four years. Not with concrete, walled and destroyed. And that's what this is about. I support the amendment, and with the amendment, I also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. So far, we've heard a lot of things that hold and that don't hold. It is argued that in the area of the local community, Ankaran held a referendum on exclusion, in which 55% of participants and participants voted against, 45% against. At 64% attendance. This means and it is right to say that 35% of the voters and voters from that place voted in favour, 29% of the voters and voters from that place voted against and 36% of the electorates and voters, whether they felt it was not worth coming to the referendum or decided to leave the options to others, but not defined. Clearly, therefore, 35% of all voters and voters voted in favour of the election of Ankara. However, we must admit that because participation was lower, that is 55%, that is, the few who attended the referendum. At the same time, there was a referendum on the dispersion of the Municipality of Koper into four parts, but I will explain this later, because I see that we do not understand each other, we resolve the issue of constitutionality. In the area of the local community of Ankaran alone, I will not give you the results of the entire municipality because 90% of Koper Municipality and Koprčanov voted against the division of the municipality into four parts. And as this referendum was consultative and that referendum consultative, both bear a message that depends on how we interpret, whether compatible or not. In the area of Ankara alone, 73% of the people in this second referendum voted against the dissipation of the Municipality of Koper. As we say, we can interpret whether they were confused, some would even think that only by voting at one referendum would they solve the issue both. So it's supposed to be a mess, but it's to be interpreted. It is true that they may have gone and voted against it because they did not want the separation in four parts, but at the same time they wanted the expulsion of Ankara. Okay. This logical interpretation is also one of those that we must accept if we are to be correct. But surely we must all agree that that day in Ankara was a day of referendum confusion for many. It's unfair to deny it here. Regardless of these two results, I think the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran is inappropriate for other reasons. From a legal point of view, the congregation of Ankara does not meet three legal conditions. There are at least 5,000 inhabitants, but of course there are 2,000 inhabitants. He doesn't have his own library and his own elementary school. I'll explain why he doesn't have them. First of all, I have to answer those who speak immediately, since it doesn't matter if they don't have all the structures today, they're still not a congregation. The decision of the Constitutional Court - and if my predecessors have consulted constitutional lawyers, it would be right to take another five minutes and to consult on it - 2/06, the Constitutional Court specifically points out that at the time of the request for a new municipality or its establishment, the new municipality must have all the necessary infrastructure and fulfil the rest of the constitutional and legal conditions. I quote: "The Constitutional Court finds that it is not sufficient merely to claim that the future congregation will only approach the necessary investments." Why do I claim that Ankaran does not meet the conditions of the library and primary school? He has a school library and a primary school, which was built last year by the Machete Municipality of Koper. Although the Mačehov Municipality of Koper built a primary school, it does not have a primary school with Italian learning language and Italian library. Why is that important? Since Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government clearly states that municipalities in areas where members of the Hungarian and Italian national communities live are formed in such a way as to ensure that they exercise the specific rights of national communities. And what is one of the basic special rights if not the right to education in its own, national language? I'd expect the predecessors to be aware of that. I will only make two brief statements from the opinion of the Self-Governmental People's Community. In the case of Ankaran, the situation of members of the Italian national community living in Ankara is even worse, as they are exposed to additional negative effects resulting from their numerical lowness. In addition, "Pier Paolo Vergerio il Vecchio Gepara" and the Delfino Blu kindergarten work in Croatia and cover the needs of children and pupils of the Italian national community living in Ankara. There are no such structures in Ankara today. It would be different if the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran and Croatia were proposed. As it was, let's be honest, it was done years ago, and when it came out on the basis of a referendum that there was no way to break up the Koper Congregation, it tried elsewhere. And I'm sure if we voted against it in Ankara, we'd find another niche where we could break the Koper Congregation until they could. I would like to draw attention to Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states, inter alia: "The rights of both national communities and their members are guaranteed irrespective of the number of members of this community." So much in response to those who speak, you talk, because there are only 20 or 30 in Ankaran. Regrettably, given that we should be aware of the wealth brought by another ethnic community in a particular area. The Italian national community is not only in our interest, although it is very important for principled reasons, because we want to respect multiculturalism, but because we are aware that this multiculturality is something that brings wealth to all those living in that area, not a step backwards or a problem. Advantage. You know, colleagues and colleagues, for example, how many people from Kopra, Izola and Pirana can work smoothly in Italy because they are involved in this Italian-Benefit cultural space, they know Italian and have this comparative advantage to Italians beyond the border. When they want to do business with Slovenia, what do they even have to do because they don't know Slovenian? Once again hire Slovenian citizens, translators who know both languages to help them. This is a practical element of wealth that should be recognized as a principled wealth. Unfortunately, some people don't. The international legal aspect, a monument to consent or a London agreement in 1954, says, quote, "In areas under the civil law of Italy or Yugoslavia, no changes to the boundaries of the basic administrative units are allowed in order to endanger the ethnic composition of the relevant units". And Slovenia is the legal successor to these agreements. Of course, it would be difficult or difficult to prove before the Constitutional Court that the establishment of Ankara was a real goal of jeopardising the Italian national community. I don't think that's the intention of the initiators, either. However, it will be extremely possible to prove that this threat to the composition is due to such establishment for the municipality of Koper, which will lose part of its Italian-speaking population as for the municipality of Ankaran, where this population will be in greater danger of assimilation due to its smallness. And as we change the name of one congregation today, I hope that tomorrow we will not remove bilingualism in Ankara because there are so few. And an international political perspective. We're aware of him. Infringement of the OAS agreement, which could be done today, will be another element in favour of those who speak against further aid and support by the Slovenian national community in that area. Every year we are fighting for the Italian government to provide the million euro that the Slovenian national community needs. Tomorrow, with such a vote in Rome, they will say to us, "My fellows, if you don't mind, we won't be working for the Slovenian minority any more." Catastrophe, misthinking, because even in Italy we should be aware that the Slovenian national community in that area is their wealth, but, unfortunately, there are many who do not realize it. The decision of the Constitutional Court on the non-constitutionality of the Municipality of Koper was mentioned. If we read this, we would know that the Constitutional Court in that decision is talking about the non-conformity of urban and rural work and the need for the division of the Koper Congregation on the basis of rural and urban work. It is therefore not a coincidence that in all the proposals so far, when an unfulfilled decision was to be implemented, four, three rural areas and one urban area were always divided into four, three rural areas and one urban area, where Ankara, together with Kopro, Žusterna and Markovac, has always been taken into account as a single urban area. And I think it's an argument that once Ankara is gone, we will save the constitution. No, the decision of the Constitutional Court shall be read in substance. And the content will remain the same, or it will be even greater. And a material perspective. In my opinion, the Bay of Cyprus, due to the presence of the capital and spatial giant, this is Luka Koper, needs a unified management of its premises. Two factors of local authority in relation to the cove and Luke Koper will be able, not mandatory, but will lead to conflict and competition. When there will be competition before local elections, who is greener, who is the major opponent of capital and Luke Koper, forgetting that most citizens and citizens work with or are indirectly connected to Luka Koper. But, no matter what, demagogy will do its job, and it will compete to see who's more against Luka Koper and more for their people, once again forgetting. For 50 years, Port Koper strangled the northern part of the center of Koper, and we lived with it because we knew that this was part of our development. Once we know that half of Luke Koper is no longer ours, there will be questions in Cyprus why we should still suffer Luca Koper as we do today. There's so much talk about the third pier. But even if the third pier is built, it will still be a good mile away from the centre of Ankara. Do you know how far the first pier is from the center of Kopra? Less than 200 meters. Despite this, we have lived for 50 years because we are aware that Luka Koper is an essential part not only of Cyprus's development, not only of southeast Slovenia and its development, but through its multipliers a factor for the development of the whole of Slovenia. So if we have a decision on one side of the referendum, where it is not plebiscite, but mostly people have decided to set up a consultation referendum, where Members and Members are called upon to responsibly determine what is best for the place and what needs to be done under the letter of law, on the other hand, we have the argument of the second referendum, which, if not the other, has made the whole matter confusing and confusing. We have the issue of legal conditions, which means respect for fundamental rights, the exercise of fundamental rights of Italian nationality, the provision of the London Agreement, possible consequences for our community in Trieste, the issue of integrated governance and Luke Koper. I must say that it pains me that after 16 years, in 1994, the first attempt, after 16 years of attempts to divide the Kori congregation by more or less, legitimately, surely, by the right hand, will be successful today after the municipality has issued part of the left. I feel a little like my brother put a knife in my back or my uncle. I sincerely hope that this will not happen and that the yellow sun, which adorns the black flag of Cyprus, will still shine in all its power after today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Since you mentioned your brother and uncle, he has a replica of Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u69	He also mentioned the predecessor earlier, so he mentioned me several times. I won't argue. I just want to explain three aspects that remain very blurry and unclear. First of all, a reference to the London monument and a possible violation of Article 7 of the Special Statute. See, in 1994, this should be said to the younger Members in particular, the borders of the Municipality of Koper have changed so that it essentially affected the reduction of the percentage of the Italian minority, since it covered three new local communities: Rakitovec, Zazid and Podgorje, which until then belonged to the municipality of Sežana. Precedences in this direction were already in place, and by that time, they would have judged that there had been an impact on the national structure. This time no one changes the fields of rights guaranteed. Second thing, second referendum. The referendum on division into four municipalities was the political manoeuvre of the municipal administration itself. We know that. So we can clear up the situation. But the Ankarans understood exactly what was going on, so they voted for their own congregation and against the proposal to divide the congregation into four different congregations. One of them was Koper and Ankaran. If you follow me, they consistently voted to establish the municipality of Ankaran against the establishment of a municipality where Ankaran alone would not be, but would be part of the municipality of Koper. The outcome of the vote was clear. It's not thesis that the situation was confusing and that the Ankarans were confused. They were not confused, voted exactly as they did, and twice confirmed the desire to establish their own congregation. And in the end about the education of Italian nationality. I look forward to so much positive energy and so much concern for education, and I hope that as soon as possible we will provide money for the reconstruction of the main elementary school in Koper Paolo Vergerio, who has been waiting for several years to establish an item that will enable reconstruction. The municipality has already provided funds, we now expect these funds from the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u70	Time for the replica is up, Mr. Franco.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Thank you. And that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Although this was actually more of a debate, but good. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. We face a number of challenges that require us to ask ourselves how we will be organised in a new way, so that we will be more effective in overcoming these challenges when facing the challenges facing us as a nation and as a community. In the 20-year history of this country, the fragmentation of Slovenia has proved to be a recipe for more and more smaller municipalities that has not produced the desired results. Because of this process Slovenia is no more decentralised, more or less, because of this process of fragmentation of Slovenia into small municipalities it is increasingly centralised. And a small congregation here cannot represent an effective counterweight to a strong center. Only strong regional centres can represent an effective counterweight to a strong centre. Today I will respect my principled definition that I do not support the further fragmentation of Slovenian municipalities. On the contrary, in Slovenia, I would like to start a process of reuniting Slovenian municipalities into stronger units, which would be more capable and self-sufficient in planning their development, in order to ensure the quality of life and well-being of their inhabitants and people. In this respect, it is obvious why you did not propose appropriate amendments to the Local Self-Government Act by tightening the criteria. Yeah, it's true. We didn't do it. However, I must say that I expect the Government to make such changes as soon as possible. More. It will also provide incentives, with appropriate legislative incentives, for the Slovenian municipalities to reunify. Unfortunately, what we have already heard today has not been a practice. As far as Ankaran is concerned. Personally, I am asked whether the adoption of this amendment and the law that would give effect to the Municipality of Ankara would result in unconstitutional consequences, given that Article 8 of the Constitution makes it very clear that part of our legal order is also an internationally accepted obligation that our laws, and this is primarily the responsibility of the National Assembly, must be in accordance with the accepted international obligations of our country. The London Memorandum, the OEMs, however, are the documents on which our statehood is based, because these documents set our Western border. In this respect, I agree with those who think that it would be possible for the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran to cause such discord with the Constitution and the potential danger to the existence of the Italian national community in the current settlement of the local community of Ankaran, and I would like to remain loyal to the principle of anti-establishment of new municipalities in this particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u74	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to see that this debate does not, however, address the Italian national community as something it does not know what it thinks and also as something to say how it should think. If possible, please, let's avoid it. Look, paragraphs 5 and 13a are not something for the future. There are terms. This must be accomplished before a congregation is even established. The distribution of schools in the so-called national mixed area is an integral part of these international agreements. And it is clear that if we know what our arrangement is for primary schools, that if nothing else, there will be a rash of school attendance in Croatia, if nothing else. To set up a school in Ankara with an Italian learning language, even if a branch school, it is a related store or what to say. Then something needs to be changed on the Italian side. I believe and I am sure that the initiators in Ankara have no intention of endangering the position of the Italian national community by establishing this municipality, but this will happen objectively. We can't now as responsible public affairs managers say, "So let's do something now, we'll see what happens," if the pitchforks go crazy if the shovel goes flat. What's that? What amazes me, and I am truly amazed, is that these matters were not the subject of any legal attention. Not the government's local self-government services, not the Parliament's legislative and legal services. Now that we have started a new debate on the regionalisation of Slovenia, there will be no regions. You all know that. Not in this term and probably not in the future. Unless I know how to change the customer composition, etc. When this started, there was no constitutional basis for the regionalisation of Article 64, i.e. the obligations of local communities towards national communities. This was not even on the list of reasons for the particular articulation of the provinces. That dimension doesn't exist. It's just collapsing. Literally. What the Italian national community says is something illegal, there is always someone who will have a different opinion, but the institutional forms of expression of these opinions provided for in the regulation are not being taken into account. Go to the Constitutional Court. Article 5 is not taken into account, Article 13a under those conditions, even it is claimed that the nationalities conditions will be met because there will be one saint. Do you understand what it means to have a saint? These people in Ankara, members of Italian nationality, will in fact be exterminated from their residential historical space by this operation. They will be excluded from connection with the city and also from organic relations with other Italians in Croatia, where these structures exist. Now I'm talking about our community. I want to make it clear. I want you to know that this is not made of vines and that we do not have some political interests that would be left, right or any other on such issues. Yes, but this has already been discussed by the predecessors, many other reasons for not being wise, not rational, are not serious about establishing a congregation from the local community of Ankaran. If necessary, we'd rather change the law. Let's sit down and change the legislation so that there will be cases like those in Ankara where certain problems about Luke are happening and so on. Let us build up legislation so that people are more secure in these matters. Thus, by setting up municipalities - just by establishing municipalities of those problems of bulked cargo, pollution or anything, the third pier, these things are not solved by the establishment of municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In June last year, the government found that several areas met all the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities, not only Ankaran and Mirna. But then, on the committee itself, the mother body, they went through only two areas, namely, Ankaran and Mirna. The region of Mirna with the argument that they will then be in the area of three municipalities, Mokronog, Trebelno, Šentrupert and Mirna, to unite in one municipality of the Mirna Valley. It is true that they now have joint projects, but first, the Mirna municipality must be established in order to unite, because this process is also the simplest. There were different arguments for the area of the municipality of Ankaran and would not now be about this. But that's where all the conditions are. Article 13 and Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government fulfils these conditions, in addition to other areas, but the remaining areas have not been given a green light. The National Assembly then endorsed these two proposals and called for a referendum in these two areas. The outcome of these referendums is different. In the area of Mirna, the outcome was almost 89%, which clearly shows the purpose of the citizens in the area and 55% in the area of the municipality of Ankara, because they were probably seduced by the second referendum, which in my opinion was misleading or intended to blur the first referendum for the establishment of a new municipality, but only this referendum was meroded for me when people decided to set up a new congregation. So far, I do not know that in the history of Parliament a law would have been passed contrary to the will of the people at the referendum if the referendum had already been announced. But I know the opposite. That a certain congregation was by law, even though the referendum was negative. The case of the municipality of Žuzemberk. But if you ask these citizens now, we would never vote against a congregation they have now in their 12th year. That's how the government proposed the law. Interestingly, the Government has proposed a law such as the will of the people expressed in the referendum. And now we have a strange situation where the biggest opposition party agrees to support the law proposed by the Government. As far as we've heard here, no positional party will agree to this law. I think that now, as the journalist wrote in the Primorski News, "as if the bell rang by the tide" that all the procedures have already been adopted for the establishment of a new congregation and the National Assembly must only determine the will and regularity of all procedures so far and confirm the law proposed by the Government or the amendment tabled to bring the law into its original state as proposed. However, I would like to ask those who will support the establishment of those two municipalities, when the Constitutional Court decides to favour those areas which have now passed through the Supreme Court and when they will appeal to the Constitutional Court, when the Constitutional Court, if it complies with all the legislation, will issue a decision that Parliament must also allow referendum will in those areas which have better conditions for its municipalities than the municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna. Whether we will vote at that time or at that time not to sign a referendum or to set up a congregation in that area. I think we need to be principled and comply with legislation, both 13 and 13a. Article 1 I think that this amendment, which has been tabled by the Slovenian People's Party and the Group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Yuri, must be confirmed and the law proposed by the Government also adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-General. Those who are looking at us now, I think it is more than obvious that this marriage is also a very large political kitchen. This is particularly true of the coalition or their opinion when they represented the views of the groups of Members. However, I am sure that this meeting should be extremely brief if we take into account what is our duty, in particular the Members and Members, to respect the will of the people, we should only vote in favour of the establishment of these two congregations, and the Peace and Ankaran, who have made it clear at the referendum that they want to have their own congregation. It is obvious that you were clumsy or disagreeable in the coalition when the referendum was under discussion. But when it came to it, it was a complete fact. And today it's no different than to confirm it. I'll confirm the amendment myself and the law itself. It saddens me, however, that those proposals, which have also been made or initiatives for new congregations, have not received sufficient support, even though there is an interest in local or local communities that want to become congregations because of the likely lack of courage or powerful people who would be able to abuse those who have now supported at least these two congregations. Let us ask ourselves why people expect and want their congregations. In Slovenia 2010, with these two, if we can get them, there will be 212, and I am sure that again and again in the coming years there will be a desire for new municipalities. The only reason, I think, is that history shows that every congregation that has gained independence from the larger congregation has a chance for faster development. That's the key reason. And that will always be motive in the coming years. Therefore, many times I have said, let us gather enough political wisdom, will, and set up provinces, for this will likely plague the need for the independence of new congregations. In my previous term, I myself proposed for the new Watch Tower congregation. If we look today, after almost four or three years or half of what development they have achieved, the difference is more than obvious. If we look at the municipality of Šentrupert, the Municipality of Mokronog-Trebelno, which were separated from the municipality of Trebnje in the previous term. I cite this example, since the congregation of Mirno is also from this area, it is quite clear how great development in both congregations has been achieved in these three and a half years. And this, as I said, is what will continue to fuel ideas about new congregations over and over again. Today, mainly by the parliamentary groups, there have been quite a few debates about the excessive fragmentation of the municipalities. What's the big deal? Let's be more specific. The fact that the congregations do not meet the basic conditions. What are these basic conditions? What the law says. Let us look at the history of independent Slovenia and how each mandate of the municipality was formed. We have municipalities of between 300 and some 10,000. The criteria were always as much as the political kitchen was lobbying. That was always one of the reasons. We speak or wish, especially in coalition parties, to change the Law on Local Self-Government, where new criteria would be laid down, new conditions for the establishment of small municipalities. Why change now? Why do things now work unevenly, but if over the past 18 years we have witnessed over and over and over again that the law, which has so far been specified, has been played out and we have not complied with all the legal provisions. I also believe that the only right way is to unify ourselves as quickly as possible, to establish landscapes and to ensure through the provinces those needs that citizens also expect to be decentralised in this way. And we can probably expect that at that time, a large congregation or a number of congregations will try to unite, and in this way, with some greater economic or financial power, they will be able to provide larger projects. Today, I think there is no other way for us to acknowledge both congregations. Of course, I will also confirm them because I am sure that everyone will develop more quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Mr. Battelli, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Procedural in a literal sense, because the amendment - the amendments, which are almost the same - which we are discussing is somehow misleading. What was adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government was an amendment which, I simplify, deleted the municipality of Ankaran. While Mirna is an integral part of the rest of the basic law. The psychological effect is that one who votes against the part of the amendment relating to Ankaran will also draw Mirno.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Mr. Battelli, procedural proposal, please. This is your opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u83	No, no, no. The amendment, namely this second part, is unnecessary because it is an existing part of the law that came from the Committee on Local Self-Government. That's clear. That's what I'm trying to explain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u84	Take the amendments we got. The amendments are not the same, but they are identical according to the content. We are therefore discussing both amendments together and will also vote on both amendments together. Unfortunately, this was not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u85	Of course he was. But, well, we didn't get along, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u86	Not according to my explanation. I'm opening an application. Excuse me? I'm calling it off. Procedural proposal, Dr. Luke Yuri. Really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u87	I propose, President, if the service can verify the actual meaning of the amendment, as it was written here. For the reason is that in fact the second part of the amendment, where it says that a new point 90a is added, makes no sense, which was not deleted with the amendment on the committee. In fact, in the amendment - I suggest that you look at it too, it says that point 1a is added and then point 90a is added. I just want to warn you that this point has not been deleted. So I see no reason for the amendment to say that this point is added. Maybe I suggest we get an explanation as to what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u88	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u89	It says here that the text of Article 1 is amended to read "and is replaced". I don't know, I've read both of them before, and both of them are exactly the same by content, but they're not the same. If you go to a good place to watch, you will see that the two places below are replaced, depending on the alphabetical order S, S, T. S and S. Stara Gora - there is nothing similar. In short, nothing special. Here you go. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] Once again, I am opening an application to discuss both amendments. Mr. Anton Anderlich, you're up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Thank you. It's a simple dilemma in this amendment. Simply return the text to the text as was expected and also written in the law following the results of the referendum and after the expert opinion of the Government or the service which reviewed everything that was done and prepared the amended law. I regret that today we are listening to things that are relevant, which are important, which should probably be dealt with more than once, but should, above all, do once, say, one rounding of local self-government with the regulation of some intermediate level, such as the provinces and the like, but today we do not have this. Today, we do not deal with these laws, but we have a concrete decision on the approval or non-approval of the two new congregations and the designation of a change in the name of the third congregation. Therefore, it is a shame to give notice to the public that no matter what the law stipulated, no matter what constitutional rights are, no matter what the voters say in the referendums, if we send them there, we can do exactly what we make up in the National Assembly. I think that's a bad report. Indeed, in its conscience, it is consistent with the Constitution of every decision-making -no offense. Here, too, I ask myself repeatedly for my conscience, whether what I am doing at a given time is most in line with the expectations of the interested public, and ultimately the affected public, because we have more and more things in play. Some have an interest, some have expectations, others have a resistance to some decisions, or they reject some things because they simply don't like them, or they feel that they are being deprived of some freedom, or that they are being restricted by some initiative or anything else, so in this rejection of our work they have the right, of course, to say it out loud. From the very beginning, I am convinced that when the initiative comes, so is legislation, it is necessary to decide on it - first of all to determine if it meets the conditions - it is necessary to decide, to carry out the procedure and to conclude it. Even when I asked the other Members and Members why we have not yet considered this law, because today, I think we received from the Committee on Local Self-Government an explanation from the Government about the deadlines, whether it is true that by 8 March we should have done all this, if not, this work today is also meaningless and will have no weight. But then and today I am guided by the same thing: the procedure has begun, the procedure has been carried out, I have given my opinion and I will vote accordingly. However, it is imperative that the responsible legislator carry out his task as instructed by the law, that we reach the end. It would be really awkward and irresponsible for us to say after all this now, "We've been making a little joke, go to court, but if the court says you're right, then we'll go to the decision again and then we'll do things differently than this, let's say, in 2006." I am not in favour of such work, but I have repeatedly voted against the establishment of certain congregations as well as for the establishment in all history of these two hundred and ten congregations. But I see the principle myself, and here I also thank my colleagues from the SDS, who say that the only right path is the legal path, to support general principles, and let's just say that it is not just the slogans, but the principles that should be followed. I believe they thought of our actions as well as of their own, and this is a step forward. That's encouraging, it's a shame to lose words here, and I believe we'll last another three hours and do this work upright, pressing the button. I do not see the need to further justify, at least the conditions, whether it be beneficial or harmful to make a decision for or against the establishment of a congregation, but I see the necessity to do the right thing to do and therefore I do not have any reservations about the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In order to create new ones, the will of the inhabitants was expressed, which is their legitimate right, to us and to Members it is their duty to make the right decision on this request and on the right to make the right decision and for the benefit of the living people there. As is evident from the referendum will of the people, it is for the majority of the population, which also shows the results for the establishment of new municipalities. Despite the obvious pressure of the Italian community, according to the media, there was no negative opinion on the amendment of the law when the Ankaran municipality was discussed by the National Affairs Commission. However, it is certainly detectable that there is a conflict in the coalition that is not united for various reasons. It is particularly worrying in the part where the media is talking about corruption and bribery of Members who have received bribes - according to Mr Gregor Strmčnik, the initiator for the establishment of the Ankaran municipality, and talks about specific names and surnames from the high levels of politics. I am even more concerned when he tells his TV colleague Yuri Luka that he is in the National Assembly after someone's statement, perhaps he will complement what is twenty-seven lobbyists - Members who need to be checked. I have no reason not to trust my colleague Yuri, and I must tell you that I am going to stand by to investigate matters that point to the suspicion of criminal services. Of course, I remember Mr Gantar's words when, in the case of Friend, he said it was unacceptable that this was happening among Members, and here I fully agree with him. Therefore, it is also right to make public all corrupt acts from before and from today. As I have already said, the interests of the Ankarans must be respected. It is wrong to explain that it is only an individual’s interest. On the contrary, there is evidence that the interest of individuals on the other hand, where, as we hear it, there is also a desire to persuade politicians by bribery. Procrastination with referendum will is certainly in the power of politicians, who, rather than the will of people, have important capital that they would have taken into account and the misfortune of small people. The municipalities of Ankaran oppose the municipality, and refer to the law according to which the municipality should count at least 5,000 people. Of course, this does not convince me, since we have a large number of municipalities with fewer inhabitants, but they are successful. It's entirely up to the mayors and their capable coworkers. I'm sure it would be better and cheaper for the country if the congregations were less than half. I would also support this, but as long as the development policy of individual regions is as it is, I support a system that is not the best, but at least the development results are showing in individual locations. I agree with the people of Ankara that the place was a developmentally forgotten place, because this is a series of years of my holiday destination, where I could also monitor the development of the place, which, according to the Ankarans, has many opportunities in the development of tourism, entrepreneurship, fisheries, medical activities and recreation, and all of this has been nothing to date. When they receive their congregation, they will be enabled to do so, which until now was just a dream. That's why I'm giving them my "yes" vote to make their dreams come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I don't think my colleague understands the most about me - perhaps Mr Majhenič, if you listen to me, to explain this question that you have raised. I wasn't talking about 27 visits. He announced publicly that Mr Gregor Strmčnik, the initiator of the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran and the breakup of the Municipality of Koper, had 27 lobbyists working to establish this municipality in the National Assembly. And given that an anonymous application may have been made to Mr Strmčnik Kos about possible corruption, as you have rightly said, I first suggested to Mr Kos to investigate this as soon as possible, for it is a little funny that not only a Member is actually involved in one application, but even the President of the National Assembly, Minister for Local Self-Government, the President of the administration of Luke Koper, is also concerned. But good thing to investigate, I have nothing to hide. However, I suggested that at the same time it be established - given that Mr Strumčnik himself stated that he had 27 lobbyists - that it should be determined who these lobbyists were or how they were paid, because lobbyists are lobbying because they were paid for it, what they promised to do in order to have them hatched and, above all, who paid them. This is what would make sense to conclude that we can effectively throw away any concerns about the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. I hope that Mr Kos will soon find out and that he will soon reject that there is no private interest and that there is indeed a genuine desire for the initiators to live better in Ankara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say that when opponents of the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran look at - I am talking about both amendments, because these two amendments essentially refer only to the return of the text prepared by the Government in Article 1, because it actually relates to the return or the possibility to confirm today the congregation of Ankara as a new congregation, together with Mirno in Dolenjska. In doing so, I would like to point out that the reasons why these amendments and also the law, if adopted, would not be accepted, are particularly based on the injustices that would have occurred to the Italian national community if the Municipality of Koper were to be divided. I would just like to say that the material that has not yet been produced by the initiators of the referendum and then the establishment of the municipality shows that they have been thinking about the application and care of the rights of Italian nationality because in the first paper prepared for the referendum, there were quite a few Italian texts on the inside of the canvas - sweet, children's, but Italian and Slovenian. The same is true of the publication published on 8 March, which is not intended for us, but is intended for women in the Ankaran local community, where there is very much text in Italian, Slovenian and even in English and German. The fact is that the initiative and requirement for the independence of the municipality of Ankaran, for the designation of the municipality of Ankaran or the Municipality of the Municipality of Koper is, in fact, a consequence of this, as in the crowd of other small municipalities, which were formed in Slovenia because the central authority in a particular large municipality was not interested in its rural areas, for its parts of the municipality which were thus deprived and constantly drained from these areas and which was flowing into central areas. This same thing has happened in the last six, seven years in the Municipality of Koper and here is the population reaction. I can't say anything else with a heavy heart, but I can't help but support these two amendments and support the law - just as I did, although I was a little stiff, I also supported the proposal for a referendum. Because I don't think it's possible in this case to allow the establishment of the Ankaran municipality, because they just don't see the possibility of living normally in the Koper District. One more thing. If we use such very strong words as "robota" for actions carried out by citizens and citizens of this country, then I think that those who are very cultural, civilized publications, letters and so on are to be dealt with by the initiators of the referendum and the National Community of Ankaran, should consider whether it is appropriate to express their actions with such harsh words in their accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u97	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr Vice President, Mr. Secretary, my colleagues and my colleagues. So everyone today builds up his decision on some experiences, on knowing his surroundings, or on a wider environment. Of course, I agree with all those who have made it clear and loud today that the only path is the legal path. This has been said many times today. The only path is the legal path. This means that there is a need for careful consideration today. To consider whether it is new, future, the Municipality of Ankaran within agreed parameters, which means the establishment of new municipalities. If I read article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which says, "except for a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants". Especially less than 5,000! This means that if the municipality of Ankara had more than 5,000 people, it would have voted in favour. At this point, however, he has less and I will not vote in favour of the establishment of a newly formed congregation. Of course, there have also been many speeches today, and what is the excessive fragmentation of smaller congregations? For me, the excessive fragmentation of smaller municipalities is what it says, "but not less than 2,000 people." For me, there is an exaggerated fragmentation of municipalities, i.e. those established which have fewer than 2,000 inhabitants. That's too much for me. I will not support such a proposal. It is true, however, that in the same breath it is necessary to say that the Law on Local Self - Administration is bad because it promotes the establishment of new congregations. The law must be modernised, harmonised, and adjusted to bring interest to the assembly of municipalities. I heard you all say that today. In areas where it is possible to come together, we have some excellent cases that have already been put in place in practice today, such as the inter-mission inspection services - there are many such cases. We have different medical institutions - there are many such cases. The latest examples are also common municipal administrations, we already have more than 20 such cases in our Slovenia, and other meaningful forms of mergers that need to be financially stimulated, otherwise it is unlikely that none of this will happen. Some in this House still do not understand the true essence of the congregation today, and I do not agree with those to whom the congregation means only sidewalks, asphalt coatings and perhaps even society. That's not enough. That's not enough. That's not a congregation. Today we need to act responsibly. What does that mean, a congregation? This also means the development of the economy, the creation of conditions for the development of the economy, means industrial zones, means craft-business zones for service activities, means tourism, which does not end in the municipality, so at the border between municipalities - of course municipalities must be connected - there is agriculture, there is culture, there is primary education, there is preschool education, there are libraries, if not other, but of course regional ones, there are museums, especially clean drinking water for the whole area - today we can no longer imagine pure drinking to build for just one municipality, as this is no longer possible. We recently signed a clean drinking water contract for one of the regions, 27 municipalities within this region, and this project is worth about 120 million euros there - and, of course, not all the mayors were present! Two of the municipalities with fewer than 1,000 inhabitants were not present. I don't know, they probably didn't feel that kind of need because you don't realize this problem, which is a terrible problem. There's a lot of talk today about the provinces. I don't know, I also agree with those who say that this is not a topic today, but it is important to say: Minister Gjerkesh has done an excellent job of "getting in touch" and has made the legislation so far as to bring it seriously to the parliamentary groups. And I'm really interested. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, will you support this legislation when it is on the table? [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. In short, since I was myself a signatory to the establishment of the new congregation of Mirna, I am confident that in the future this will become the congregation of Mirska Dolina, joined by three municipalities, Mirne, Mokronoga, Trebelna and Šentrupert. That is why I will vote on my conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u101	Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief because I have little time at my disposal. I would just like to call for a sober debate and a dialogue where there is no place to demean individuals or individuals who may not be among us today. Not to take advantage of some low arguments, such as some application to the Kosovo Commission, which I think is entirely unfounded, because the charge of "ad personam" diverts attention from a real substantive debate. All of these are speculations that can't be taken into consideration or supported. I don't want politics. Let's stick to rational arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. By means of the legislation or amendments tabled, we will give or reject the democratic referendum's expressed will to the inhabitants of a particular geographical area in our country. Our legitimate decision, us 90 Members, should be in line with the majority will of the affected people. It's our moral commitment. The referendum decision is fully justified and we all know the real reasons for establishing the congregation and at the same time for separation from the Municipality of Koper. At first, we thought that it was only for, so to speak, the unacceptable mayor, who, with his autocratic appearance and leadership, raised the resistance and rejection of a large number of people; that it was the machete attitude of the Municipality of Koper towards the inhabitants of the Region of Ankara and the unacceptable availability of the assets of the Ankarans and some other local communities. This is about concrete poverty, the planned sale of land for damage to the Ankaran local community and the unacceptable interference in the premises and properties of Ankara, Valdoltra, Fat Rtić and Lazaret. The events, controversy, political actions and involvement of Luke Koper, however, indicate the apparently divisive background of pure capital interests. Some associate the whole matter even with national interests, the danger of the collapse of the economy of the entire region and other paranoid speculations of opponents that are heard. The completely unfounded and expressed fears of representatives of the national community certainly have nothing to do with the above-mentioned capital interests of growing neoliberalism in Slovenia. I think the least problem is the introduction of a bilingual kindergarten or a primary school. However, the problem is certainly the future division of assets and permanent profits, inflows of Luke Koper's capital. And that is what torments opposers of the establishment of a new congregation. They care little about the sustainable development and prospects of these local communities. And in order to prevent the establishment of a new congregation, all political and other means are being used. Why does no one dispute the establishment of the congregation of Mirna? Apparently, they're not that big of a deal, and that's why there's no complication. Lobby in Members is in full swing. Someone would say that it is even corruption, but certainly a rather intense political clearing, which is certainly present all the time and is carried out not only here in the National Assembly, but also at many other levels, both local and economic, especially where the money is. Hypothetically, if a Slovenian government minister decided to listen to or attach to the communication of Members, Mayors, Ministers, many economists these days, it would certainly be interesting to monitor police and prosecutorial activities. In view of recent events, I could say that accusations should just rain and be newspapers full of suspicions and suspicions about corruption, clientism and political trade. Unfortunately, as usual, it would hit small fish. They are large, unfortunately, untouchable, they have too much money and are virtually impossible to get into jail and jail in such a splinter of the system. So in a short, referendum message to us Members: The Ankarans and the locals of some other local communities want to decide their own destiny, their lives and their further development. It is also their constitutional right not to repeat myself. The Municipality of Koper and its associated capital are clearly blocking and preventing the development of a specific area, not representing the interests of the inhabitants in the area. These are the facts. So why not trust the Ankarans? And why are we wasting our time here anyway? Thank you. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u105	Mr. Roberto Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much. What is missing from the establishment of the congregation of Ankara is the real reason and the spirit exists of local self - government and its meaning. It's actually a cultural concept. Once again, I would ask the Government, since it has the opportunity to perform, to tell her about Article 13a, how the geographical, border, national, historical and economic reasons foster the formation of the congregation of Ankaran. I think that the public and we who are affected have the right to this answer, and I ask that the answer be not the same as I have received many times: that the Government has taken this fully into account because it is incomprehensible. If someone says that they've taken these things completely into account, you don't understand anything. It's a way to avoid the answer, not the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u107	This issue that you have just raised is not in full relation to the two amendments that we are discussing. Otherwise, if the Minister wants to answer, he can. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. In a discussion that touches on the completion of the Law on the Establishment of Communities and Their Areas, we touch or touch on various issues that are more or less related to today's topic. If I start at the end, on your particular question, the government has also given an answer to your question, but the fundamental answer to that question is that in some territory the people have the constitutional right to decide how and how they live in a local self-government community. And here it's not important those criteria that you're describing, how to evaluate them - the geographical territorial and the others that you mentioned, are of secondary importance in this case. However, I must point out that the Government - when you refer this issue to the Government - has technically completed the government's technical cooperation in this whole process with the proposal that we are considering today. So technically she participated in procedures that were carried out in the National Assembly in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Law on Local Self-Government. The Government's position is well known, but the law is as it is, it also allows for exceptions to the possibilities in which certain things can be interpreted differently, so the Government has also approached and already prepared and coordinated the completion of the Law on Local Self-Government, which is based on the financial and functional analysis that we have done and will include the exact conditions for the establishment of municipalities and a set of exceptions. And the other thing that matters is that it's gonna be a simple marriage. So the congregation will be established by law, of course in accordance with the Constitution and the European Charter on Local Self-Government, but it will be like an ordinary law. Even as we have heard about the assembly of congregations, I believe that the Constitution is copied in what way it is possible to unite the congregation, so that the Law on Local Self - Administration or any other law cannot alter it. However, the government will approach the problem of fragmentation of Slovenia by linking local communities, by connecting municipalities, by motivating integration. Since congregations wishing to unite can be united only by clearly expressing their will in the referendum. So there are no other mechanisms in today's situation. But this is another story, and this is where we are supposed to discuss the debate that is here today regarding the law establishing these two congregations. However, with regard to your debate on provincial legislation, I would also like to say that we have made it clear here in the presentation, that we have made it clear to you and that we have shown positive discrimination against the representatives of minorities in the areas where they live. and this is provided for in the number of representatives and the Electoral Act clearly expresses positive discrimination. And if it is possible to discuss this further, the legislation for the public is accessible and we are open to such proposals. Finally, this is how we agreed at our meeting. Finally, let me mention toying with representatives of Parliament, including the President, with the Minister, in my opinion, even with the Double Minister from today. I would take this as a toy - with alleged corruption and so on - if this had not been mentioned more than once. And when it's repeatedly mentioned, that "probably" disappears slowly and there's only corruption left. So I protest clearly and loudly here, and I do not want my name to be repeated in this context until the procedure that someone has initiated - obviously anyone can do so with us - is clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u109	Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor, six seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u110	The London Memorandum and the Crommic Agreement say, "Local communities are not divided." This leads to non-compliance with these agreements and with the Metropolitan Municipality of Trieste, which will destroy the Slovenian municipalities in Tržaška. Without the consent of the Italian minority, we should not share the municipalities. I'll vote against it. Thanks for the second.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u111	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 1? Check-in is on. Mr. Marian Krizman, you're out of time. You're in red numbers. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Today is a day in the National Assembly that I don't really want. I note that such days are extremely large in this mandate in the National Assembly. In fact, the proposal for the new municipality of Ankara has been tabled by Coalition Member Franco Juri and this proposal has received sufficient support for the vote in the National Assembly. Among other things, this proposal supported at least 11 members of the coalition and was therefore voted in favour by 39 votes in favour and 33 against. If the coalition in one of the previous votes in the National Assembly of this proposal, which we have today, did not support, today we would not be discussing the establishment of new municipalities. Many of you have supported this proposal; you can read the vote of 25 September 2009. Many of you have supported this! And I must say that now that all further steps have been taken, with a number of costs, referendum campaigns, including the costs of holding elections or referendums, we have now come into the situation where some are thinking about whether this proposal is appropriate, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution and so on. We've come into a situation that is certainly not good for the work of the National Assembly, for the work of the State, for the work of the Government. I do not imagine that on 25 September 2009, the knowledge in the coalition was such that these two proposals received sufficient support, that they were legal at the time, that they met the conditions set out in Articles 13 and 13a and that this procedure was then followed by a call for an advisory referendum. Today we are listening to the reverse story in the coalition that one or even both proposals do not meet the legal conditions so that they do not meet the requirements of Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. If these two proposals are not supported, it should be asked for health in this house and this coalition. Just proof that the coalition is acting in confusion, that it does not operate in an orderly manner, that it does not work in sync and so on. Here on the table, we now have a proposal from the Government and the Minister to express peacefully the view that the Government has done only technical work for the National Assembly, that it has served the National Assembly, that the Government has done this, this proposal for a text, on the basis of what. This can be done by the services of the National Assembly, at the end of the day anyone in any parliamentary group may make such a proposal. The problem is that what the Government presented to the National Assembly was voted on by the Government. That's a government proposal. And now you are very confused about whether a government proposal is appropriate or a government proposal is not appropriate, is in accordance with the law or is not compatible with the law. I wonder what kind of authority we have to propose to us for trial, for consideration in the National Assembly, a law that is not in conformity with the provisions of some other provisions of the law. For example, Article 13a or Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. I also wonder how the coalition in the National Assembly works if, in making such important decisions that we have practically concluded after a one-year hearing, it is now considering what is and what is not right and what is wrong. Where were the services of the parliamentary groups, where were the services of the National Assembly at the time, and, last but not least, where was the Government’s service, which, in its opinion, equipped with a view to meeting the conditions?Oh, my God! This was all equipped. You have this document, you can look at it and we can discuss it and we can negotiate further. But that's how it is, that's how you accept it. The fact that something in this approach to the establishment of new congregations is not good shows that the Government has taken an extremely long time to submit the law to the National Assembly at all. This must have been some kind of systemic prison, a systemic decision, a government decision not to submit the law in time. By preventing the establishment of two new congregations, regardless of the fact that these previous procedures, including the referendum, were carried out. That must have been the basic reason, and that was a government decision. For as simple a law as this law is, in fact, there is no problem in writing not in two hours, but in a few ten minutes, because you can typically rewrite the laws that are filed, and simply furnish the matter with new names. No problem. However, it is clear that the Government, which gives so much to legality, which gives so much to the constitutionality that it gives so much to respect people's opinions, has decided that it will violate so much legality that it will violate so much constitutionality and will overtake people's opinions and that it will put the one who signs the elections, and this is the President of the National Assembly, in some very difficult position. You know, we had a case recently when the Attorney General just called one of the investigative groups, one of the police officers, and asked about a case and a coalition, and it was immediately defined as a violation of the rule of law and a violation of the constitution. Two lawyers on a government ministerial team, two ministers confirmed it in one vote, without submitting one single piece of evidence, despite repeated calls. Here, in fact, it is very eclectic, very obvious that, with these decisions being announced, we are in conflict with the law; with the Law on Local Self-Government and also with the violation of the referendum will, the 90th Article of the Constitution is very clear here, and none of the government's lawyers, none of the government's ministers is even trying to warn members of the National Assembly that they are and that they will vote against the constitutional order - after this decision, under this provision of Article 90 of the Constitution. That's very interesting. Here earlier, Mr Minister said that in the coalition circles, in fact, a new law on local self-government had already been harmonised and that some things, particularly the establishment of new municipalities, would otherwise be regulated. You know, for this term of office, this is done, what you will prepare in the coalition, this is for the next term. A procedure for the establishment of new municipalities may be initiated only once within the mandate of the National Assembly. And this is the procedure that is supposed to end today in this work. In fact, I think it is unnecessary for the government coalition to regulate legislation for the next term. This could be done at the beginning of this mandate, this could easily be regulated, the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, right at the beginning of 2009, for example, and then could also trigger this procedure, this call for these proposals to be read to establish new municipalities on the basis of some new content, some new provisions. Now that these deadlines have expired, the next local elections will be concluded in 2014. 2014! This is said to apply only to the next term. After this year's local elections, we can no longer establish new municipalities in stock. It doesn't work; because it's the way it is, and that's how it's done. It is also interesting that against government law, in fact, they are also very prominent in the largest government party from which the President of the Government comes. This is very interesting, and it is probably clear to many in the Republic of Slovenia why some of the harder, more important decisions that should be taken in this mandate, such as anti-crisis measures or measures related to the adopted exit strategy, do not see the light of the world if the government already has so simple solutions, with such simple proposals so much difficulty that it gets support in its own coalition and even in its largest coalition partner, the largest coalition party. That's amazing! I don't think we can expect some good results in the long run. It also seems very irresponsible to me that we have called for a consultation referendum in these two municipalities, that the decisions made at these two consultative referendums were clear, that the majority support was obvious, and now we are about to come to the conclusion that, after all these proceedings in one and the other, we will conclude that we will probably have a law as a whole with or without an amendment. Even this can happen when voting in the National Assembly! I don't think it's responsible, I don't think it's right for the government coalition to do it that way. Very quickly, the National Assembly also declares that something that, in fact, is written as a slip-through deadline, is an instructional deadline. We have, we have had cases where, let's say, the Mandate-Election Commission itself has internally called out proposals for the selection of candidates and when it was suggested that this deadline should be extended and it was time for us to consider this at the same meeting, it was the decision of the Members in this mandate committee not to do so. That's what most people have decided. Now that we have a legal deadline here, when there has been no internal proposals, but there is a legal deadline, it is said that this matter is instructive - whether or not it is taken into account. Now, if we have decided or if you have decided to write down important solutions relating to the law, the application of the law, to the legal state, to the coalition contract, then we should probably eliminate these interpretative matters and decide and take matters in accordance with the law so that these matters are sly. Even in this case, this thing should be so arranged. I must say that I have also been very disturbed by the fact that representatives of the government coalition - I think a few of the Members have signed, some of the more than 20 Members have signed this request for an extraordinary meeting. If you knew that this was a time limit for you to now apply for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, because we are grinding and grinding these matters and we are not and will not deal with this matter in any other way at a regular meeting of the National Assembly. If this is an instructional deadline, we could also consider this at the first regular April session, because we would not miss anything, nothing would happen and so on, nothing would change in this work. However, the matter was so clearly necessary, so obviously necessary that it was necessary to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and at this extraordinary meeting, so you also submitted very strange material, with a lack of Slovenian, "the tuber might have been, deity, I don't know what you had in mind there, but this material was not presented in Slovenian either. And so much carelessness and so much hasty and so much haste that on the one hand some solutions are taken and on the other hand you're blocking them in the same coalition system, I don't think it's promising and it's not doing our country any good at all. In our parliamentary group, we will support the amendment because we believe that it is necessary to properly conclude the procedure, including with regard to the Municipality of Ankara, because all previous procedures have been properly carried out, both in the National Assembly, the referendum has been properly carried out and there are, in fact, no serious reservations to deal with the matter differently than any other proposal in this National Assembly. And we'll support the law. In fact, we are also disturbed by the fact that the government coalition is not consistent in its decisions when we have considered these proposals from the new municipalities. That some proposals emerged from the referendum invitation to tender, which also fulfilled all the proposals on the basis of a government proposal. Some of the proposals were even twice as big as the current or as the new Mirna municipality should be voted on, twice as many people had and met all the conditions, and in the coalition, in particular because of various relations, these proposals were not supported. This suggests that the government coalition acts in an extremely two-faced manner. It's incredibly two-faced! And here it is difficult to hide for another interpretation as to find out that it is particularly important who proposes where these proposals come from. If I look at who the candidates were, say, Frama, if we look at who proposed for the new municipality of Loče and, say, the congregation of Mirna and look at the votes, then it is obvious that there are no fundamental decisions, technical reasons or grounds under the law, but some other grounds, some other preferences have decided. And unfortunately, there are tremendous numbers of such voices in the National Assembly. That's a hell of a lot! Even in the same process, in the same process, when we establish new municipalities, some do not have enough 4,700 inhabitants to get the opportunity to call a referendum, but some others do, by the same conditions. In fact, it is extremely difficult to disclose to a citizen, and it does not go in the context of what you are actually saying that the congregations must be self-sufficient, large enough and I do not know which. I think that some of the criteria or some of the rules of the coalition work are likely to be largely corrected or thoroughly corrected, because otherwise there will be a tremendous amount of controversy. And about who is, what is with signing - I am signing, signing there, lobbying left and right and so on. If matters in the National Assembly and elsewhere do not follow certain technological procedures and rules, it is likely that, if it is a technique, everything will fall there. The static system can't hold and falls. And it's no different in social work than it is in social work. Make sure of that. Even there, if you force some deformity or let some deformity into the system, things will collapse sooner or later. And I propose, given that there are quite a few technical intelligences in the National Assembly, that the coalition lay down some rules, some solid rules, some formula for action, to measure the same proposals or similar proposals with the same vats, whether they are proposed by the coalition or proposed by the opposition Members. In this case, it is typical that such rules, such a formula does not hold and the color is key and the content is irrelevant. I must also say that I was disturbed by the fact that, after complaints to the Administrative Court or administrative courts have been brought and administrative courts have decided on these cases and that, I would say, the complaints have been settled, even in the re-voting of the National Assembly, these proposals have not been supported. We are talking about the rule of law, we are talking about the separation of powers, we are talking about independence, etc., and the assessment of the administrative courts was such that they decided differently from the decision of the National Assembly, but the National Assembly also failed this correctional exam - not because of the opposition, because of the coalition! It is the coalition that has not attracted to these findings or statements of administrative courts. And we will probably find it extremely difficult to work in the National Assembly in such a way that we explain ourselves differently in law, in court decisions and in constitutional decisions. There may be times when things may be different with us, but in this case they were actually very eccentric. We have already found in the National Assembly that matters do not stand, that they have been found by administrative courts, and yet the coalition in the National Assembly has decided differently. The grounds for the decisions that you rejected the judgments of the administrative courts were not in accordance with the law. You can see this by those who know the law a little better and you have a slightly longer career in the National Assembly than we, who are only a third term. As for the implementation of the Constitutional Decision. I believe that the Constitutional Court's judgment is clear that, in those cases where municipalities are actually to be excluded, there was no support at the referendum, but in that case there is nothing to interfere with the decision and the adoption of the amendment and the confirmation of the proposal tabled. As I say, I will support both the amendment and the bill to confirm the two new municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u113	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. Mrs. Tank was concerned about the government's proficiency, and I have to tell him that he doesn't have to worry. The other procedures are in order. It is true, however, that the late submission of this law to the National Assembly has led to the failure of the National Assembly to deal with and adopt the law within the time limit laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government. However, as you have already identified, and as the law enforcement service has found, the deadline is instructive and is intended to prepare in the area of the new municipalities, to make all preparations for the regular local elections. And so far, practice has shown that these preparations can also be carried out within a shorter time frame, which is very well known to you, since in 2006 five new municipalities were established at the time of the beginning of the three-month period before the call for local elections. This did not prevent the election of the bodies of the new municipalities that have begun to function normally and operate today. Therefore, the Government considers that the shortening of that deadline will have no negative consequences in the process. However, when you mention that the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government in this mandate is trivial for the establishment of new municipalities, I can say that it is not because I said that the proposed ordinary law would be to establish new municipalities with exact conditions and without specific prior procedures. The municipalities will be able to establish themselves in this mandate. However, it is true that elections will not be possible to be held, but they will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u115	Mr. Tanko, please. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u116	Dear Minister, in the previous term, probably within three months, only municipalities were established on the basis of the court's demands. Here we have a regular procedure that will fall within the congregation. There was an exceptional situation, for in those cases the administrative court asked the National Assembly to explain why the congregations had been rejected. At that time, we decided not to justify this and said that we would let these cases go. That's right. In this case, we have a case ahead of us, but it's a regular procedure and it's a delay. In the previous term, those who followed this procedure were established in a timely manner. Only exceptionally did they go after the later work in this part. I want to know what "ordinary" law means. How is a congregation formed with a "ordinary" law? I want to know what this law is like, which we now have before us. Is that a special law? Is this a law that is passed after some other majority and so forth? I'm actually interested in the definition of what "ordinary" law is. As for the other procedures, the well-respected minister may not run well if such scattered cases occur in the National Assembly when the Government proposes something. As far as provincial law is concerned, we are in great delay. In fact, the setting up of a congregation for 2014 is unnecessary because you do not know how and how the adoption of that law is to be concluded, which is to be proposed, and then the matter should be dealt with in the ordinary procedure. I would also like this explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u117	Please, Mr Minister, although this reminds me more of questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u118	Very briefly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u119	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, no matter how much time went by, which was no longer in line with the ZLS, Mr Tanko, the result was the same. The time was shorter than that provided for in the Law on Local Self-Government and procedures could normally be carried out, i.e. preparations for elections and so on. In short, it's not the cause that matters, it's the consequence. As for our novel, the proposal for a new law on local self-government, I will then explain what this reduced or simplified procedure means, which I call the ordinary law, compared to what it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u121	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. In opening, I would like to say that the amendment tabled by the group of Members with the first-signed France Yuri will also be supported, as I have also given my signature. In particular, I will support it because I also voted in favour of the establishment of the referendum area, and in this referendum area the will of the people has proved to be, in fact, a single municipality. And if I want to respect the people and the people's initiative as a Member, I will vote in favour of this amendment. I will also vote in full for the law. However, I would like to point out that it is actually too late today to talk about whether we have too many or too few municipalities in Slovenia, whether these municipalities are too small or too small, especially because we missed some of the hands, which means that when we started talking about the call for areas, we let two areas through the sieve, but some other areas were not, and certainly even better conditions were met there than in these two matters. Further, several times in the National Assembly, as well as today, we have heard how the fragmentation of Slovenia in several municipalities is a problem, how we do not know how to connect or how we do not know how to unite. I would like to say that there are some areas where congregations have not broken at all, but there are some areas where congregations from large congregations have broken into a small number of congregations and a person should ask himself why. If those mayors or municipal councils and those who were in the lead in large municipalities were concerned about the equitable development of the entire region or the entire area, this would not happen. That is why, as I have said in the introduction, I will support the amendment of both the groups of Members and in proportion to this amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u123	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 1? Check-in is on. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u124	Just explained to Mr Tank that this distorted truth would not remain in the public eye. On the one hand, when he says that we missed everything, on the other hand, it's obvious that someone who wanted to make it work has also done bad. It was only when I read in the media what was supposed to happen to these procedures 13. 3. In fact, I have also initiated an initiative to complete this process as soon as possible. In order to open up the possibility, on the other hand, if we as legislators and together with the Government, whatever it is called, whether we have missed or missed the deadline, we must not prevent those who are interested, who also have the legitimacy to initiate adequate protection of the rule of law, from doing so within a certain period of time. The conditions were even to extend the meeting last week, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, with this item on the agenda, but then decided that the two meetings would be convened. And that's all this is about. Everything else is speculation, everything else is a lush imagination, which is not missing, obviously, in every case that happens in this Slovenia. That's why I thought it was appropriate to explain that this would not remain in the air.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u125	Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Look, here we listen to the position of the parliamentary groups, how they are, in principle, against the fragmentation of congregations and the establishment of new congregations, and I would like to hear the arguments against the establishment of the congregation of Mirna. Up to now, perhaps fifty congregations have been established under conditions such as those of the congregation of Mirna. In view of the fact that the referendum was held here, that the referendum decided almost 90% of all citizens - not all citizens, those who attended the referendum - this is almost a plebiscite decision; that the current congregation of Trebnje unanimously decided to establish a new congregation, to secession the congregation of Mirna - and today we do not know how much time and colleagues say that since you are against it in principle, you will not support this law to establish the congregation of Mirna. What's your face? How many congregations were established when substantially fewer conditions were met? The area of the congregation of Mirna or the local community of Mirna meets all the conditions under the Law on Local Self-Government, both Articles 13 and 13.a. No one was against; neither the government nor the present congregation, none. And the positioning parties or members, members of the positioning party here, say you're against it in principle and you'll vote against it. What face do you have for these people who want to decide for their congregation and then together with the other two municipalities of Mokronog-Trebelno and Šentrupert, to establish probably at the first stage of the joint municipal administration to function better and then to join together in one municipality of the Mirna Valley, which is gravity away from the present municipality of Trebnje. I don't know how you're gonna defend this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u127	Please, this is our fellow Member!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u128	Do I have to talk more out loud? I think I'm loud enough. Look, everything went through here around the new congregation of Ankaran. The referendum was also adopted. The local congregation of Koper is, of course, opposed to vaccination or secession of a certain piece carrying golden eggs! Del Luke Koper. But if the people there have decided for their congregation to want to preserve one piece of our coast like this - I have already discussed on the committee that Luka Koper will be able to spread despite that. It is of national importance that this project is adopted by the State Spatial Plan for the Extension of Luka Koper, not by the municipalities, that the municipality no longer gives consent, but only an opinion on the state's location or spatial plan, that there is no fear, and I think this is just political games, which is also written by the journalist in Primorski Novosti, that it would be logical for Parliament today to confirm the will of the people and establish these two municipalities. But since politics is, as they say, the oldest trade in the world, we cannot say anything with certainty, so the multi-hour debate here is irrelevant because we should quickly vote on it. Or at the back, it is feared that those areas which have filed a complaint with the Supreme Court will be, perhaps one has even been heard and the others have the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court. And I don't believe that the Constitutional Court would have ruled differently than it has done a few times now, in favour of those who had all the conditions. They have better conditions than the congregation of Mirna. What will we say after the decision of the Constitutional Court? Are we discussing again for a few hours whether we will hear the Constitutional Court's decision or not? We must also make it possible for them to have referendums, to adopt laws, and of course time will be very little. Or we'll say no, you missed this train in four years, because we didn't comply with the legislation. As was the case with regional incentives projects when the first February deadline was rejected, because we cannot compare projects with implementation plans because we have not reviewed them and all projects will be rejected. And then it shortens to the municipalities the deadlines for implementing the projects and the final report on the projects carried out by the end of September. We're digging ourselves a cave, and then we're going to have to hurry to satisfy ourselves, or we're going to be a "like" rule of law. Look, it doesn't make sense! The laws we have adopted or adopted in the past must be respected and we must also respect the will of the people expressed in the referendum. Or will you vote when the Constitutional Court decides that referendums are still to be opened in the remaining areas, whether the Constitutional Court decides whether this does not cause any harm to the State, as in some cases it has already done to prevent the call for a referendum? I don't know where we're going. I would like to hear - unfortunately you have run out of time - of some coalition parties explain why against the congregation of Mirna when all procedures were carried out so that for a long time no other congregation. Mr Minister, I would like to hear from you how you explain that the Government is proposing a law that is in accordance with all the legislation, all the procedures, and now coalition parties are opposed to this law and will vote against the establishment of the Mirna municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u129	Mr. Robert Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u130	Roberto, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u131	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u132	Yes, health began to walk in September last year and now we hear that the Government is a technical service for this, the basis for the establishment of the congregation are articles, lovely promotional materials. Some procedure that has begun has to be completed, and here is the human will. There is no reason to establish the congregation of Ankaran. Today, no one spoke about the reasons why the congregation should be an Ankaran. They're gone! This is a project of people who have some animosity to the mayor in Koper, who are very exposed in this battle, controversy with him, and because it comes from the customers, then what happens in the National Assembly. And these same people who are also in conflict with the mayor, some seriously, even the courts are around and so on, and then these people are counting, clearly, on the "stango" opposition; and this is the whole story about the municipality of Ankaran.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u133	Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 1? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on both amendments to Article 1, as we have discussed, and we will vote on both. Please review your voting devices first. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 21. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? No, no, no. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mr. Luka Yuri. I'll ask you who on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mr. Roberto Battelli. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u134	Members of the group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u135	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u136	And then in your own name. What's going on here is a very serious matter. It's an act of law. It happened in September, now it's repeating itself. And that doesn't give some good signs to the public, people and legal certainty here isn't the best way to say it's a valued commodity. That's how I'm gonna vote against the law. At least for the congregation of Ankaran, there is no reason to establish a congregation. That's not an opinion. They're not submitted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u137	In your own name, does anyone want to explain their voice? Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u138	I'll explain, and I think whoever wants will find themselves in this explanation. Friends, Romans, cousins, lend me your ears. I came to Caesar's funeral without complimenting him. For he lives also after the death of the men that hurt him, but good goes with their bones. So let him go with Caesar. Reverend Brutus told us that Caesar is ambitious. If that were the case, it would be a mistake worth regretting. Then Caesar said with regret, "Here with the permission of Brutus and others, for Brutus is an honorable man, because they are all men of honour, I have come to speak at Caesar's funeral. He was my friend, loyal and just to me. But Brutus says he was ambitious and Brutus is an honorable man. Caesar brought many prisoners home to Rome and generally filled our treasury. Did Caesar seem ambitious to us at the time? As the poor cried, Caesar was comforting, an ambitious man would be more receptive. But Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is an honorable man. You saw me offer him the royal crown three times, and he refused it three times. Was it about ambition? Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is certainly an honorable man. Oh, justice, you've escaped these beasts and people have lost their judgment. My heart is in the coffin, there with Caesar, and now I'm gonna shut up until it comes back to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Luka Yuri. Otherwise, a nice historical-literary contribution, but there was no explanation in it. Are you in or is Brutus in? Mr. Victory Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u140	"Ave Lucus morrituri you salad."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-30-SDZ5-Izredna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted 39 to 20. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. The Council of Ministers for Agriculture, Agriculture and Food Protection has informed the President of the Government that it will be the function of the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food for the benefit of Mr. Prof. Dr. Milan Gjerkesh, Minister of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food, who was responsible for local government and regional development. By letter dated 29 March 2010, the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, informed me that he would be entrusted with the role of Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food with the responsibility of Dr Henrik Gjerkeš, Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Rule 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, notes that the role of Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, instead of Prof. Dr. Milan Pogačnik, who has been acting as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will be suspended by Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, Minister without a source responsible for local self-government and regional development. I wish the Minister a successful job. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under this item, the National Assembly will consider a notification from the State Prosecutor's Office in Cyprus to decide on immunity in criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly and a proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of the Vice-President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a hearing with the State Attorney's Office in Cyprus on the decision on immunity in criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the State Prosecutor's Office in Cyprus. The notice was considered by the Mandate-voluntary Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification by the State Prosecutor in Cyprus of the number KT 1192/09, 234/10 of 24. 3. 2010 on the proposal to decide on the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Srečko Friends for manifest offences of inciting unlawful acceptance of gifts under Article 241/I of the Penal Code and the imposition and giving of gifts under Article 242/I of the Penal Code in respect of this Article 37. The Penal Code and the two offences of attempted blackmail under Article 231/I of the Penal Code in relation to Article 34 of the Penal Code do not recognize the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly to Happy Friends and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members voted for 63 against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of the Vice-President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The draft decision was submitted for consideration by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Although they have applied for a debate and an explanation, no one will debate, so I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve the Vice-President of the Victory of Jelinčič Plemeniti in the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, and the Vice-President of Silven Majhenič in the Slovenian National Party. At the same time, I would like to remind you that if the majority of Members vote for it, this will be 46 or more. We're voting. The vote is under way. 64 Members and Members voted, all in favour, none against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
