ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Andreja Richter, Melita Župevc, Guido Kres, Milenko Ziherl, Ljubo Germič, Villa Rezman, Dr. László Göncz and Samo Bevk from 15.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! Respectable. Allow me to speak a few words before the 1st item of the agenda today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear representatives of the Government, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, citizens and citizens. This year we will mark the anniversary of many events that took place 20 years ago. The year 1990 was decisive and crucial for our independence and democratisation. This year there have been far more or less reverberating events, but I believe that everyone has had a significant impact on the development and progress of the self-sustainment process and that without these processes today, they would probably not have their own country. Amendments were adopted in the Slovenian Constitution 20 years ago, 7 and 8 March 1990, and marked an important way forward. So let me say a few words. By the end of the 1980s, the wave of democratisation had also taken over Slovenia, which had experienced and experienced major social and political changes during that time. The multinational Yugoslav state has been in a serious political, economic and social crisis because of accumulated economic problems, acute inter-ministerial relations. The links between the republics began to wane and became more loose. Instead of connecting elements, divisive factors were increasingly entering the centre, breaking the international and political balance. The political consequences of the fall of the Berlin Wall have also strengthened our ideas of self-determination, democracy, political pluralism and a possible independent state. This strengthened self-esteem of the Slovenian people has also begun to express itself in increasingly determined demands for a different state regime, which would allow Slovenia to become more independent and independent in deciding on its own destiny and future. More self-sustaining of its own affairs, however, required an appropriate legal basis. Therefore, on 7 and 8 March 1990 the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia adopted amendments to the Republic Constitution, which substantially changed the internal constitutional arrangements of the then Republic of Slovenia. Even though these changes did not directly affect the field of relations in the Federation, they had a significant impact on the continuation of Slovenia's independence. With these constitutional supplements, the term "socialist" was drawn from the name of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. The basic principles of the Constitution have been redefined, the way in which candidates for the Republic Assembly, the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Presidency of the SFRJ have been proposed has been changed, and the provisions under the competence of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have been amended by the decision of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on an equal basis or at a joint meeting in all the most important decisions. In addition to these additions, the Assembly also adopted a special declaration on the regulation of relations of general importance for Slovenia. With this declaration, which, inter alia, found that the current situation of the SFRJ Constitution and the legal obligations relating to legislation were not being fulfilled, the Assembly ordered the Executive Council to draw up a Confederal Plan on the regulation of Yugoslavia, which it had also done by the end of the term of office. Your Honor! The adoption of these constitutional supplements and declarations may not today be among the most receptive and most recognizable events of our independence and decommitment of a crucial period. Someone could also mark these changes as marginal, but the whole process of self-reliance and democratisation was not really negligible. They predicted a direction towards a new political system, a different and more democratic political climate, after all, the first free parliamentary multilateral elections in April 1990, which meant one of the stages in our path of independence that we had yet to overcome. Therefore, they deserve to be remembered even today. Thank you for your attention. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u3	We're moving on to 16. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - AT FIRST REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON CONTRIBUTIONS, REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the 27th Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Jožet Tank for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Two days ago, Wednesday, we discussed in the National Assembly a proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. And that's where the whole government was sitting, headed by President Borut Pahor. Several ministers and secretaries of state were present. From the district where the local self-government caused the most damage last year because no calls were made, both Minister Gaspari and his State Secretary, Mrs Jerina were present. Today, when we consider an important development project, only the Ministry of Local Self-Government is present. That the provinces are indeed a development project is also evident from the Government's 2009 normative programme. In this document, the government placed it, so it put it at the light of its annual activities, its annual program. But it's 10. 12. When the deadline for the submission of provincial legislation was zero. That is why we have decided, in our Group of Members, to table a proposal for this legislation ourselves. At that time, the Prime Minister of the Government rushed with the statement that the provinces were no longer a priority, that it was a too expensive project for Slovenia, but, despite all that, a few days later, Minister Gjerkes visited the parliamentary groups and represented a landscape map. Since there are no provinces, there are certainly many consequences, so this is not the division of the province of Slovenia, they are not shared powers, they are not transferred powers, limited or very centralised is the availability of state resources for regional development, no calls and the like. In short, a lot of trouble. In our Group of Members, we believe that these problems can be put to an end and should be put to an end. This is why it is also necessary to adopt provincial legislation, otherwise the whole decision on the fate of funds for local communities revolves around Gregorčič and Ljubljanska Rotovž. But everyone else has actually been removed and removed from this concept. The adoption of the Law on Development Assistance to Pomurje, which we have adopted, shows that regional, municipal and local resources for a systemic approach are involved in this area. Before that we adopted the Main City Act and established the specific status of the city of Ljubljana, or you have determined it, the Municipality of Ljubljana is in very unusual ways possible to obtain funds. And today, there is a third modification of the approach to the regulation of regional matters. The Development Council for White Krajina and Kočevsko is being established to help these two areas to emerge from developmental problems. This is also a new nonconsistency, for on the last visit of the Government in the White landscape and in Ribnik-Kočevska it was agreed and the President of the Government promised that something would be done in this area, but he did so by removing one segment, Ribniško, from this development council completely. And now I don't know if it's a professional decision that Fishing, which is a natural whole of this area, has been ruled out, whether it's a political decision. It's probably a political decision. In short, if we want to do something systemic, something comprehensive, something serious, then we need to adopt provincial legislation. Unfortunately, those who have not done anything that has breached their commitments who have broken their promise, who have not turned on the green light in their light, who is not working, who is probably also unable to propose it, will write for the legislation that has been submitted, even a negative opinion. In short, we are in a very unusual situation. The one who wrote this negative opinion on the proposed legislation is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government led by Mr B.P., Mr Borut Pahor. In short, the one who doesn't work writes even opinions. I think if I didn't, at least I wouldn't have written an opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Henrik Gjerkeš, the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am pleased that the representative of the bill's proponents, on which we are going to have a general hearing today, has detected the result that we must all achieve together. Of course, the question is, What is the optimal way to do this? I think today's debate is one of the stones in this mosaic that pushes our way to our common goal. And I am pleased that this is also the way the proposalr explained it. The proposal of the Lands Act, which we are going to have to deal with in general today, is that, in a sufficiently corrective manner, the legal, institutional, organisational and functional aspects of the provinces at the level between the State and the municipalities should be considered as part of the whole, which is based on an inappropriate concept of regionalisation, namely the establishment of landscapes, relatively small areas and a relatively small number of inhabitants. This would be very different from the province to the province, so these would be regions with limited development potentials, limited opportunities for their own economic development, greater dependence on the central level and limited regional autonomy. The government does not support such a concept. The linkage of the Law on Provinces to the concept of smaller provinces is based on the provisions governing the area of the original tasks of the province. This is a task of regional importance and of local issues of wider importance, which are defined in detail and unbalanced and therefore restrictive. The Government considers that the proposal for a law under these provisions highlights in particular the administrative and service function of the province. It limits the regulatory and acceleration function that is most important to the fulfilment of the needs of the inhabitants of the provinces in the area of their original tasks of regional importance. In accordance with the proposed law, the provinces would become universal contractors, at the time of their establishment or at the latest within two, three years, of the tasks under national jurisdiction that are now being exercised by the authorities of the State Administration. Inspections, which would have a profound effect on the self-governance of the provinces. The restriction of the constitutional meaning and content of the provincial self-government, the autonomy and independence of the provinces as a special political administrative, territorial system is particularly evident from the established relations between the province and the municipalities in its territory. The provision governing the Council of Municipalities, which is formally the consultative body of the Regional Council and, in fact, as a body that can prevent decisions from being taken, the decisions of the Regional Council are contrary to the fundamental principles of local self-government. The Government considers that the establishment of large provinces is justified and that the impact of smaller areas of the provinces should be ensured with regard to the decision-making of the provincial authorities. However, in a way that will not affect the independence of the provinces, nor in the independence of the congregations. The Government supports the gradual decentralisation process, which means the gradual transfer of tasks to the provinces and, in parallel, the gradual identification of funding resources for these tasks by the principle of the Conexist. The provinces would first perform tasks related to the development of wider areas, i.e. the tasks of a cohesion character. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support further consideration of this law. However, if I mention today the first meeting of the Development Council for White Krajina and Kočevsko, I must inform you that in three hours I will have to leave today's hearing, I will be replaced by a Secretary of State who will know how to answer your questions and dilemmas, and I will return after the final session of the Development Council. And once again, I stress, not only for the White Country, but for the White Country and Kočevsko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u8	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with co-workers and co-workers, Mr President of the National Assembly! It is true that this Parliament would probably be even more empty today if it were not filled by fellow mayors, because, as a percentage, we are always the most in the National Assembly. Well, if you're gonna push you out, then there's gonna be an empty parliament. Let's start with a bill on the provinces. Mr. Minister came in just moments before this pay phone and said that the government was not in favour of this. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we only expect the Government to come before Parliament and the Slovenian public and tell us what it supports, what it wants. But not with three, four rhetorical sentences, but with concrete actions. But it's true, by the way, for technology, if you want to talk about something exact, put it on paper, then the least you have to do is coordinate it within your beloved coalition, because your beloved coalition has to support it. This government coalition does not have one single proposal, but it does not, not because it does not know how to make it, but because all four coalition parties have their own views on the establishment of the provinces. In short, they don't even have a coherent coalition proposal. They support large provinces, i.e. large countries, large provinces. Then we could say that, in fact, one of the most successful countries on this Earth's surface would be one of the largest, this is China. And such small states, including Slovenia, would have nothing to look for. Then we could say that large congregations are the most successful, and smaller congregations, such as the congregation of my friend Gumzar, would not have anything to look for here. It is definitely one of the best among Slovenian municipalities. So, big landscapes - it's nothing, you have to say how much. Options 3 to 15. The material is as much as you want, but first you must agree within the coalition and then come before the opposition and try to reconcile it with the opposition. However, since you are not even within the coalition, you cannot reconcile, you came to that stage, Slovenian farmer would say: "Breaking a dead horse", in the phase where we were in 1999, when there was a proposal on the province of Koroška, when there was a proposal on Posavje in 2000 when there was a proposal on the white landscape, when there was a proposal on the North Sea Region, then the Law on the Provinces, then in 2000 the provincial incentives of Podravja, then the Zgornjesavina-Šalaška and so on. In short, it's not what it's supposed to be. Well, what happened? It has happened that both the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for integration into the European Union and the policy direction and action from the funds have provided for the establishment of landscapes as an intermediate level of territorial administrative organisation, which could act as a partner to the European Structural Funds and in cross-border regional cooperation, and stressed that regionalisation is an essential basis for faster, better and more balanced Slovenia. Since when could this legislation have come into motion? First, it was necessary to amend the Constitution and from 2006 onwards, when the Constitution changed, that the landscapes did not come from the bottom up, but from the top down, so this happened and this did. Since then, the Government, which was responsible, has prepared everything and brought this legislation fully into the National Assembly and has also aligned matters with the opposition. The Lisbon Strategy, adopted by the Lisbon European Council in March 2000, was a document stating that the development vision of the Common European Space was then in Gothenburg [[?]] The following year, 2001 has been somewhat refined both with the environment and with sustainable development. This Lisbon Strategy states that by 2010, the European Union must become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. Is it? Is Slovenia following this? Where are we, let's ask today? So, promoting economic growth with more and better jobs and stronger social cohesion. Do these jobs mean what happens today that workers do as they were told, as they once did in the so - called slave age? Are these better jobs and stronger social cohesion when entrepreneurs with 50, 70 employed people take their lives because they do not see a way out of the crisis because some mega-Romanian projects that arise without financial coverage bring people to despair? Because they don't sign and confess? Where are we, I wonder? With regard to the four programming areas thus recorded, it would be imperative to follow up on this in order to strengthen the promotion of creativity and entrepreneurship. With the amendment of the Constitution and the drafting of legislation, six laws to establish the provinces, the extension was made. It says here that countries should take care of cultural heritage and wealth, which should become one of the central points of economic development in Europe. And investing in human resources is crucial for Europe. At the beginning of 2010, after 10 years of the Lisbon Strategy, we are talking about the slave-ownership approach and the way. We're talking about tragedies that happen in individual buildings. And we are talking about the undeclared possibility of using European funds, and even when the government does so when local communities apply, they bring projects, they bring them to Ljubljana, they tell them that they have stopped them, because they have adopted a regulation that they cannot implement. Colleagues and colleagues, this is simply incomprehensible, this world has not seen, and this man cannot imagine that after 10 years of adoption of the Lisbon Strategy and 9 years completed in Götebokgo such things are happening. Emphasis on environmental policy, this has been added and is one of the key, important issues. Well, and what was done: the European funds project 2004-2006 was fully exploited by the previous government, with 95%. So it negotiated for a new perspective 2007-2013, plus 2 billion, 3 we pay, 5 and we get something. Of these, €4.2 billion is over three operational development programmes. And what it takes to do this: if we had the provinces, the distribution and use of these operational programmes, I am sure, today, in the second half of this period 2007-2013, all operational programmes have already been concluded. Today, we are at one-third, at that third, which was announced in the period 2007-2008, so when the government switched, this was no longer happening or a weak 20%, about 300 million euros. Of course, they spoke about this in particular at one of the extraordinary meetings, which was when the government came in vehemently: "No connection is this meeting, we have the invitation, 26 February is the application" and so on. Today this 26th of February is gone. On 25 February, he was decommissioned. In short, why? Because we don't have provincial legislation. If we had provincial legislation, of course we would have moved it to a completely different level. I am convinced that unless the National Assembly adopted legislation on local self-government in 1994, hundreds, thousands or 10,000 people today would still be without basic infrastructure. Today, however, this infrastructure is built and thanks for making the third most important project in our history since independence, entry into the European Union and, of course, local self-government, i.e. the establishment of municipalities. The fourth such project would, of course, be the establishment of landscapes and the establishment and establishment of landscapes would certainly place Slovenia on the highest map in Europe, developmental, since we are nevertheless Slovenians and Slovenians are able to do so. What would be the added value of landscapes? It's a stand-alone decision. About what? Yeah, about your development in the area they live in. Coordinated activation of both domestic development resources and, of course, increasing the strength of regions as well as development entities, breaking down monopolies and promoting competitiveness in the landscape area. Now, as we've heard in recent months, not only are these monopolies created, that even these things work through another so-called paralegal, through law offices, in short, these disgusting things that are happening to us in this country. More careful use of public funds. You know, when we're talking or when we're conducting basic school construction operations, gyms, etc., where these projects were run by municipalities, although they were run to a large extent, most of them, for state money, were substantially cheaper built and better built than, of course, those investments run by the state are co-financed by the municipalities. At the provincial level, it would be completely different, and I have said several times that we can make three or four out of one euro in the municipalities, two or three of the state funds would be made in the provinces. In fact, you all know that. You all agree with that. Both on the one hand and on the other, we have MPs from the mayors who are simply doing this, that is true. And they know exactly, and even in their performances in previous years, they were defending the provinces. However, I do not know what was the reason why this did not happen on 1 February 2008, when four or five votes for the two-thirds decision within Parliament were lost, i.e. the Members present, in order to establish the provinces. Easier and faster implementation of European Union projects. I have already said something about this, and I am sure that the counter of the notified funds, the counter of use and the counter of the request for European funds to be reimbursed back to the state budget today would be significantly higher than it is now. I publicly ask you here today, who will answer, how much money from the European Community will not be used? Who's responsible for this? Did the Prime Minister of the Government make one of the most important counters I think he should have at the time of the recession and crisis? So, a counter that would show how much money is coming back into the budget from the Brussels Treasury. Do you hope to do this or do you hope to say it? 560 million euros this year, if we don't use them, we'll never be able to do it again. As the period 2007-2013 with the formula N+2, N+3 expires this year. Second year, together over a billion 200 and so on. Almost certainly with regard to the approach that this government and this coalition have taken to it, we can say that we have already spent at least a billion euros. However, if there is a change in operational programmes, the transfer of operational programmes from the SVRL Ministry to individual ministries, as requested by Gaspari and Andrej Jerin, will, of course, be even greater. If one State Secretary in this country is able to afford that the request for reimbursement of EUR 300 million from the Brussels Treasury will not return, it will not return to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, nothing will happen, except for all those we have warned about, we are ugly and rude. "That's inside the problem, we'll solve it inside the government." It's not your internal problem, it's this country's problem. What else do we get with the provinces? Faster and more careful decision-making on the use of space. Do you, colleagues and colleagues have anything to say about space? What's going on with the change in spatial plans? Colleague mayors all know what's going on, including those who aren't mayors. Three, four years there are no answers from the government. They're not responding at all. When you take certain procedures, when you have to respond within 30, 60 days, they later write that they did not give guidance at the time and that if you do not listen to them now, they will not approve of a change in the spatial plan. Filling the gap between the municipalities and the country. Later on, when the assignments of the provinces are over, I will also talk about the tasks of the provinces themselves. If this is the development paradigm of this government, it is right to recall, on 3 November 2008, when no one but the then mandate-holder for the Borut Pahor composition proposed by President Danilo Türk stood for this speaker. At the second point, he said, quote from the magnetogram: "I want to continue working on the preparation of legislation for the design of regions so that a two-thirds majority will be reached in this high house and thus the establishment of landscapes as an instrument for the elimination of developmental imbalances." Who said that? Borut Pahor. Who's Borut Pahor? President of the Government. What did he say about this pay phone? That's not true. Why isn't he doing this? We don't know. If citizens and citizens don't know if you don't know in the coalition, if we don't know in the opposition, what else is he doing here as Prime Minister of the Government? It's acting with an exit strategy. Is it not the basis of the exit strategy for establishing landscapes? Ambassadors and Members of the ruling coalition, there is legislation before you. Don't say you don't support her. Give it up, this demagic thing. The law is done. You don't have to put it together, you don't have to work, it's made. Only insert what you are 1. 8. from the opposition additional hotels in the transposition and financing legislation. Put that in extra. Fit inside for the number of provinces. It doesn't matter to us in the opposition, we're not looking at it right now. You know what's important? To come up with this proposal. With a few amendments to present your point of view, do and in the opposition we will support you because we will not look at whether it is good for the opposition or good for the coalition, no, it is whether it is good for this country. In 2010, we are, 10 years after the Lisbon Strategy. What have we brought this country to, or what have you brought it to in the last two years? In the budget of €2 billion you owe 2009, 2010 you predict the same. Where did you get that money? Where? Social and so on, instead of going into development. Let us establish, at the last moment, to save this country from the Greek collapse, as Greece has failed. We in the opposition, in the Slovenian People's Party, are ready to help you. Our aim is to develop and survive the citizens and citizens of this country. And finally get off the threshold, get off the wagon that Andrea Jerin and Gaspari take. In December 2008, you didn't even have any government chairs, they flew to Brussels, where they were convinced of the transfer of operational programmes, and they didn't take - who? Who, following the resolution of Slovenia and Europe, is responsible for the use of operational programmes, who? SVR, they didn't know yet, and Plosteiner didn't even know about it, and she was the secretary. It's no wonder if she gave up, though. Then a new minister happens who, as a technician of a certain thing, wants to press and he is like a machine in a hundredths of a thing clear and exact, and it happens again to Andre Jerin, who takes only the phone into his hands and says to Brussels, "You know, those of our ministers, yeah, because I don't know where they were, what they were doing, but you're going to get new things, a new reconciliation." Of course, he almost lost his temper and probably left the ministry after fourteen days. But he also said, among other things, that the provincial legislation and the elections to the provinces will be in the year for local elections. Minister, you are responsible for this statement and it is your job to produce this within your coalition and within your government and come up with a proposal before this Parliament. Not like you came here today and said, "We don't support it." Why don't you tell me what the hell you're backing up for?Oh, my God! What? More unemployed. Today, the counter has already jumped 100,000 unemployed. Borut Pahor's forecast will collapse by 120,000 at the end of 2010 in the next two months. Its forecast from one year and four months ago strikes him as a dominoes that its programme is to continue the legislation already prepared for the formation of the regions. Ready. And today you're saying you don't support it. Take a step forward. In the Slovenian People's Party, once again, we want to help you. Helping, not for you, for citizens and citizens. Of course, the question remains whether you are able to accept this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister-in-Office, Secretary-General with co-workers. Of course, I will not have a lecture and a monologue as my predecessor, but I will present the position of the DeSUS Group, and this common position for the proposals of the province's legislation. Proposal for a Law on Provinces, proposal for a law on the financing of provinces, proposal for a law on the elections in the provinces, proposal for a law on the establishment of provinces, proposal for a law in the electoral units for elections in the first provincial council and proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces. In the DeSUS Group, we discussed in the package all the draft laws tabled by the same proposer and regulated the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia, the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces, the financing of the provinces, the elections to the provincial councils and the election units for the elections of the first provincial councils and represent the whole in terms of the establishment of the provinces. That is why we will also present our position as common to all the laws that are before us today. Let me be clear from the outset that in the DeSUS Group we will not support the provincial laws which are before us and which have been tabled by the Group of Members. The Government or the competent service of the Government, according to our assessment, is preparing a much bigger case and, above all, an expertly based legal basis for the establishment of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. When we were reading the draft laws, we were surprised to find that the legislative process before the third hearing was concluded by the end of the term of office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of 2008. It is a law on provinces, a law on the transfer of tasks under the jurisdiction of the provinces, a law on the financing of the provinces, an electoral law in the provinces, and a bill on the establishment of the provinces and a bill on electoral units in the provinces. The proposal for a law on the provinces follows the concept of the provinces of the former government, which was professionally rejected following the analysis of the provincial laws. The proposed regionalisation of 12 to 14 provinces was a key reason for the professional rejection of this concept of landscapes. These would be provinces with a relatively small area and a small number of inhabitants, which would also be very different from the province to the province, so these regions would be directly linked to the issue of the tasks or responsibilities of the provinces and financial and other material resources. The linkage of the Law on Provinces to the concept of smaller provinces is based on the decisions governing the areas of the province's original tasks. This is a task of regional importance and local issues of wider importance, defined in detail and unbalanced and therefore restrictive. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the Government's view that the proposal for a law under these provisions highlights, in particular, the administrative and service function of the province, the regulatory and acceleration function which is most important for the fulfilment of the needs and interests of the inhabitants of the provinces and limits the regional importance of its original tasks. As for the number and size of the provinces, our opinion is similar to that of the Government, which we advocate for a smaller number of major provinces. According to our assessment, only the establishment of large regions is justified, but of course we must not forget to ensure the impact of smaller areas of the landscape on the decision-making of the provincial authorities. Therefore, in addition to the specific interests related to the historical, cultural and other specificities of rural areas, it is necessary to lay down the right of subregional communities to participate in the decision-making of the provincial authorities, but in a manner that will not affect the independence of the provinces or the independence of the municipalities. This would allow decentralisation to be carried out in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity to the extent that it would actually allow and highlight regional autonomy. At the same time, we assess that the process of decentralisation needs to be carried out gradually, which means that the tasks should be transferred to the provinces gradually and, in parallel, the resources for financing their tasks should be gradually determined. We agree with the Government's view that the provinces should first perform tasks related to the development of wider areas, i.e. the tasks of cohesion character. The proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces is prepared in accordance with the territorial definition of Slovenia and according to the proposal for the transfer of powers to the provinces. Unfortunately, this proposal would also not contribute to the optimal regionalisation of the progressive implementation of decentralisation in line with subsidiarity and decision-making of sources of financing for provincial tasks. The proposal for a law on elections in the provinces is governed only by elections to the provincial council, so it does not take into account the concept of direct elections of the president of the province. Elections to the provincial council would be carried out through a proportional electoral system with mandatory electoral units determined by the provincial council by a general act. This way of creating electoral units and the means of adopting an electoral unit act is not appropriate, according to our assessment. The proposal for a law does not take into account the recent amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government of 2008 and, contrary to the request of the Constitutional Court, does not provide for or fails to provide for the composition of the electoral committees in relation to their related and similar relations. Also, the determination of the outcome of the elections by post, which is regulated by the Local Elections Act and which results from the Constitutional Court decision, is not regulated. The proposal for a law establishing the provinces proposes the establishment of 13 provinces and sets out the specific status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The establishment of the provinces is the basis for the concept of the provinces of the former government, which has been professionally rejected following the analysis of the provincial laws. It is during the current crisis that there is a growing awareness that, in particular, the regions with sufficient development capital can hope for a development breakthrough, a sustainable increase in prosperity and quality of life. In the event of the division of Slovenia in the proposed fourteen provinces, there would be fewer than 100,000 inhabitants and a very modest regional, developmental and other potential. This entails, inter alia, the need to reduce the expected macro-regional competences, the fragmentation of regional development potentials, the limited capacity to compete with the strong and larger regions and cities of neighbouring countries, i.e. the question of the effective functioning of the region as a financially autonomous, confident development region. Weak provinces, many with the predominance of developmental problem areas would likely be unequal, a strong country still a very subordinate partner. The pronounced regional fragmentation of Slovenia with many provinces would therefore continue to allow for a more subtle continuation of state centralisation. Through regional policy and provincial legislation, it is therefore necessary to support the establishment of such mechanisms that will truly enable more coherent development within a larger province and prevent development concentration only at its centre. The proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces constitutes a specification of the provisions of the Lands Act, which is also part of the proposed package of laws and which are detailed and unbalanced and are restrictive in the area of the province's collection tasks, a task of regional importance and of local matters of wider importance. The individual chapters of the law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces interfere with sectoral material laws and are amended and supplemented by the definition of tasks to be carried out by the provinces in their collective or transferred competences. In the DeSUS Group, we join the Government's opinion that this is an excessive number of tasks that are suddenly passed on to entities that are not yet in place, but will appear on the same day that they suddenly have to assume the burden of tasks from all the 50 laws contained in the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks within the jurisdiction of the provinces. The proposed amendments and additions to the sectoral laws show a high imbalance in the scope and manner of approaches to address the legal issue in question, which should require the establishment of the provinces. We also join the Government's opinion that the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks under the jurisdiction of the provinces highlights in particular the administrative and service function of the province and the regulatory and acceleration function that is most important for the fulfilment of the needs and interests of the inhabitants of the provinces in the area of regional development. As has already been said, in the DeSUS Group we do not support this package of proposals for provincial legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Victory Jelinčič. We got the wrong information.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u12	you didn't get the wrong information. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u13	Especially on the part of your parliamentary group. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u14	Yes, it is, but Mr. President, it's no big deal. Despite my various comments, I am still here and you have failed to silence me. I think that, according to this law, there is quite a bit of historical truth to be said. The fact is that Slovenia must be based on the historical number of its provinces. Unless we do so, we will cut off that thread of state-of-the-art and state-of-the-art we pulled from Karantany through the Austrian countries of heritage to this day. They tried to cut us off this thread soon after we entered the common country of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, when they tried to introduce us as some trio of the Yugoslav tribe, where we are Slovenians as some kind of pendant, and certainly not as part of the country that had its only foundations of statehood in its provinces except Serbia and Montenegro. It should be noted that the manifesto of Emperor Karl of 16 October 1918 expressly allowed the countries of the Austrian Empire to unify and unite freely, meaning that the Slovenian Crohnian countries, Koroška, Štajerski, Primorski, Kranjska and also the work that was in Zagreb, this is called the Slovenian landscape, recognised their statehood and sovereignty. These Slovenian provinces had statehood and sovereignty. These were chronic lands, and they were countries in today’s sense of the word, as the world’s legal literature speaks of. Unfortunately, our lawyers do not know this and do not understand it, because we do not learn about state law in our colleges, we learn about socialist law based on the Syntagma Proletarians of all countries, unite! instead of based on a state- and state-of-the-art line drawn from history. Unfortunately, this profession does not understand one thing, especially it does not understand that in the same manifesto Emperor Karl said that it cannot and cannot dismember the ogre part of the imperial-king monarchy, because the Kingdom of Ogres in this monarchy is complete and unified. Why am I saying this? Because within it, the provinces did not have their own statehood. So, Croatia, as Croatian state law speak, and so on, did not have their own statehood, were only parts of the Kingdom of Ogre. Ban was the king's deputy in Zagreb, the Hungarian king's deputy. The truth is, therefore, that the subjects of international law were only Slovenian countries whose administration was legally acquired by the Ljubljana National Government with the notification of the Danish Imperial Central Government, which was the fact that the National Council in Ljubljana took over the Slovenian sovereign administration of Primorsko with the entire Istrian and three Quarner Islands, the integral Primorsko, Kranjska, Slovenian part of Koroška, Slovenian part of Štajerska, and they accepted this in Vienna without objecting to knowledge. There are documents about this, but unfortunately our lawyers don't know anything about it. It would be nice if we ever took a ride to Vienna, searched the archives, and saw a lot of things. In short, these are evidence proving the state and sovereign rights of these countries or the government that has taken over the state affairs of these countries. Interestingly, the statehood of the Slovenian countries of the Austrian Empire was also known and demonstrated by the regent Alexander on 1 December 1918 in Belgrade. He then said that a country could not join in with the non-state. So when he said that the Kingdom of Serbia could not be joined with the Kingdom of Croatia and the Kingdom of Slavonia, because these two had no national legal entities and could only join, which eventually turned out to be the day of the merger, as they said, on the 'unification day' 1. 12. 1918, Belgrade. Pribyvić then tried to say in his speech that the SHS state, at the time, was the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs to unite with the Kingdom of Serbia, but Alexander immediately corrected it so that such a country could not be united because it was not a country. Statehood is only carried by Slovenian Crown Lands. The Croatian part did not carry statehood, so it cannot be a state. That's why Alexander said that the countries of the Austrian Empire are merging with the Kingdom of Serbia. King Alexander knew what today's politicians and present-day Slovenian lawyers do not know. Very strange. It should be noted that, in the context of this merger, it is necessary to know that at the end of World War I, the Kingdom of Serbia occupied parts of Hungarian territory and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, Slovenians was created under the Trianon Agreement. In short, the so-called Kingdom of Croatia and the Kingdom of Slavonia, which were not kingdoms, were drawn from the title of the Hungarian king, who was the king of Ogre, Galicia, Croatia and Slavonia. [[...]] From this they drew that they were called the Kingdom of Croatia and the Kingdom of Slavonia, but they never had that title. These provinces were only an integral part of the Hungarian kingdom, throughout history, documented history. This Hungarian resource is known, and sometimes it would be good to look into the state archives in Budapest, and our gentlemen don't know that either. The historical facts are enormous. And that's what needs to be considered. Because only five provinces can in this way, namely Primorska, be united of course, it does not matter that today a large part of this single Primorska is occupied by Croatia. It doesn't matter. It is the integrity of a country that leads its statehood through its historical path. If we cut this, we made a terrible mistake. Another such province is Kranjska. The third is Koroška, despite the fact that part of Koroška is there on the other side and where various guides say "Kärnten eins und engteilt" or "Koroška is uniform and weekly". Of course, they are aware of what the statehood of a territory means, despite the fact that this statehood is divided into two present countries, Austria and Slovenia. It is also important to take into account and be careful with the uniformity of the Primorska, as I said before. As we've seen, Italians draw, write and talk about the Rapal border all the time, no matter what. For they know precisely the meaning of the unity of the land of Primorska. The fourth is Styria. Something like Styria, like Koroška, is shared. But state law and continuity exist. And even that part that was in Hungary, in the Greek part, which Budapest never admits to him was always part of the Slovenian landscape - or, if you will say, today's Pomurje landscape. And that in that end there was always a part of the area on the left, on the left bank of Drava, it is said, north of Drava, to Mura, that it was always the Slovenian part. And that the town of Čakovec until 1929 was on Slovenian territory as an integral part of the Slovenian province. Only then did the gentlemen, the brothers - or whatever they were, as we told them they were friends, but I don't know what they were doing - take this part and give it to the Croats. It wasn't until 1929! Our lawyers don't know that either. This is why the only option and the only solution for the state of Slovenia is to put into our laws and also into the constitution of five Slovenian provinces. These are historical landscapes. If we don't do this, we've destroyed everything the Slovenian family has been building since Quarantine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! When we discuss the proposal for a law on the provinces, we must ask ourselves what tasks the provinces should perform. Local issues beyond the capacity of municipalities and matters of regional importance determined by the State are to be carried out. These will be matters that the province will manage and manage on its own. At the same time, a country with a law could transfer to the administration of the provinces individual tasks as well as resources under state jurisdiction. However, the provinces could carry out certain tasks that would be delegated to the congregation by contract, such as economic public service tasks, the care of the municipal depository, the provision of drinking water, and others. The province is expected to carry out the tasks of local importance, regional importance and national importance. The tasks of wider local importance are the original tasks of the provinces and will be carried out independently as their tasks in the framework of their constitutional autonomy and, as a rule, with the appropriate cooperation of the municipalities, such as the promotion of economic development and could also be listed. The tasks of regional importance under the jurisdiction of the provinces of the law today will also be the original tasks of the provinces. These are tasks that are not local and not national, for example, promoting coherent regional development, construction and maintenance of regional roads, spatial regulation, regional roads, the establishment and maintenance of regional institutions such as regional hospitals, regional schools, cultural and social institutions and so on. The original powers of regional authorities are an essential principle of self-government. Under all these powers, it is an indicator, not the only, of the degree of regional self-government. A third type of province's tasks would be so-called delegated tasks. These are the tasks the provinces are supposed to perform for the country, the tasks of the state administration for example, the issuance of building permits and so on. The province is expected to perform the administrative tasks of the State, with the exception of administrative tasks directly performed by the ministries under law and administrative tasks transferred by law to the administration of the municipalities. It should be noted that the current regulation of Slovenia is based on a developmental assumption that centralisation can ensure the strength and unity of Slovenia as a whole. Developmental trends in the world are pointing in a different direction. Our country decides on the tasks of municipalities and future provinces and on their financing. Local communities are, to the greatest extent, subordinate to the state. The biggest mistake made by the former government in drafting provincial legislation was that it "pulled" a so-called independent profession. Members of the previous government prevented the change of constitution just before the end of the 2004 mandate, bypassed the work done and acted very improperly towards the profession and experts at all. When I say profession, I mean a number of eminent experts who deal with the provinces as the second level of local self-government in Slovenia. It was entirely wrong to start a debate on the number of provinces, whether it should be 14, 15, 16, or 18, before the debate on their competence and financing began. For only on this basis must it be decided whether to introduce a greater or a smaller number of provinces. As Dr. Vlaj warns, the introduction of small landscapes would strengthen centralism. From the point of view of such extensive powers as the provincial legislation provides for today's package, it seems to me that the provinces with less than 70,000 inhabitants would have no meaning, no material, no human possibilities, nor should they carry out their own very well-being. The second key is the fact that the provincial self-government is only a normal front if it does not have an adequate funding system, i.e. an independent source from the State. In our coalition agreement, members of the coalition advocated a better attitude towards local self-government and the resolution of its most pressing issues. In the coalition agreement, we have identified ourselves as a strong local government. A Strategic Council for Regionalisation and Decentralisation was set up with the President of the Government, and three expert sub-groups were set up to analyse the basis for the normative regulation of the provinces, the establishment of landscape concepts and the analysis of the concepts of the reorganisation of Slovenia with a proposal for areas of the landscape and an analysis of the proposed delegation of powers of the provinces and a proposal for the financing of the provinces. Decentralisation as a process of implementing the principle of subsidiarity is a modern trend in European and out-of-European countries, and this process has not yet begun with us. There are several reasons: the lack of knowledge of the essence of local self-government, the resistance to the transfer of public affairs to municipalities and future provinces, the lack of small or large municipalities, the absence of provinces, the lack of political consensus on the content and the course of the reform of local self-government in Slovenia. The legal situation of the provinces, the formation of the area of the provinces, the jurisdiction of the provinces, the financing of the provinces, the internal organisation of the province, the provincial regulations of the administration, the relationship between the province and the country and the relations between the provinces and the municipalities must be regulated. The introduction of the provinces will have a number of consequences for the reallocation of powers to countries, provinces and municipalities, as well as a new regulation of financial and material issues between them. A critical view and correction of the prepared provincial legislation is needed in view of the fact that the fundamental purpose of the establishment of provinces in Slovenia is to decentralise government functions and to transfer the performance of an important part of public tasks and public finances from the country to the provincial level. This is also linked to the issue of the optimal number of landscapes, which can have a significant impact on the scope and content of the provincial powers. As the profession says, it is essential that, on the basis of a critical and independent professional analysis of the development of local self-government in Slovenia so far, changes and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities are prepared, and another which regulates the role and position of the municipality as a fundamental self-government local community. In particular, changes in the funding system of municipalities, in particular the issue of own tax and other resources, a critical view of the competences of municipalities, the elimination of the compatibility of state and local functions, the strengthening of the participation of citizens in the decision-making of municipalities and so on. We are in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and will defend the reorganisation or introduction of the provinces and its associated decentralisation, but not at any cost. Today's package will be rejected mainly because of the negative consequences of a larger number of provinces, which are the following: several territorial units of local administrations; several individual administrations of local communities; less transparency of governance; less coordination of operations between individual authorities and within individual local administrations; more newly established bodies of public law in the field of economic and non-economic public services; agencies, funds, institutions and so on; fewer employees in the public sector; more professional technical workers who do not carry out the executive tasks of the administration, but are responsible for supporting the functioning of local administration, technical unit, personnel matters, financial matters, information support and so on; less supervision of the legality of work; compliance with the rule of law in the system in a broader sense; and the territorial division that is supposed to be proposed in terms of size is not comparable to other countries; less ability to carry out matters of wider regional importance; and the question of the ability to carry out all kinds of tasks of State competence through the transfer. However, a significantly lower decentralisation rate is one of the main objectives of the implementation of the second level of local self-government. The proposed number of provinces is contrary to the objective to be achieved by the provinces - decentralisation. The drafters of the law in drawing up the map did not take into account any criteria, although they were thoroughly studied by the special expert commission operating within the Ministry of Interior in the previous term. The province should have at least 100,000 inhabitants, and should also take account of geographical roundness, economic flows and globalisation, as we need strong provinces to be able to perform the tasks they are expected to carry out from the state level. For this reason, in the Club of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, we believe that further decentralisation is not a solution and the creation of a large number of small provinces would ultimately mean that we support the establishment of landscapes that do not actually bring new levels of local self-government, so we will not present our position on the following points, as we have said everything in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Colleagues and colleagues. Let me just deny it in the introduction and say that it is not true that there is no minister who does not have the legislation prepared. This is also what colleagues of the opposition species know, but today there are claims that the Government has not prepared concrete solutions in this area. I still believe that there is a need to present the views of the Group of Members on all these points, but there is an increasing number of voices behind this Chamber, mainly full of advice to the Coalition and the Government on how to react and what to do. It used to be a very good show to farm advice. Perhaps we would follow her example, or we would introduce the opposition advice to coalition groups, especially to the government. We have written in our programme for the national elections that we are betting on a strong local government that allows for the highest level of direct participation in decision-making processes and is an important segment of social development. Our aim is to ensure that municipal and other forms of organisation of local communities are confirmed and realized by attracting the widest possible range of people, their interests, their participation and their financial resources in the decision-making and implementation. Social Democrats are inclined to establish the provinces of such self-government local communities at the second level of local self-government, which will become a generator of more coherent and sustainable regional development in our society. We will focus on the preparation of quality provincial legislation, which will take into account the principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, the findings of the Constitutional Court and the views of the professional public, which will require us to seek support among those who believe that the establishment of landscapes is the key to faster and more equitable development of the country. In order to achieve this, sustainable and permanent financial resources must be provided to local communities, which must depend significantly on their own efforts and the effective exercise of their powers. The solidarity provided by the State through complementary means must ensure an urgent level of rights, rather than a level playing field, which it takes to the successful to provide resources for inefficient local communities. There is a need to increase control over the legality and cost-effectiveness of spending. The success of each local community must depend on the quality of the programme and the effectiveness of its implementation, but not on more or less successful lobbying in national authorities. From a territorial and functional point of view, the reform of local self-government in Slovenia has gone too far: from one extreme to the other, from the largest to the smallest, and from the state powers overloaded to the heavily tempted municipalities. Over-centralisation took place at those levels formerly managed by the municipalities. The principle of subsidiarity, which ensures that public affairs are managed at the level at which they can be dealt with as successfully as possible, in accordance with the specific circumstances, more effectively and more cost-effectively as possible and as close to people as possible. This is one of the reasons for the lack of effective functioning of the entire state regime. The local self-government is a constitutional category in Slovenia, but Slovenia remains the most centralised country in the European Union despite the formation of municipalities. The amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia opened the possibility of establishing the provinces in 2006. Social Democrats are convinced that inadequately shaped landscapes do not enrich democratic relations in society and do not contribute to greater people's participation in decision-making. We also advocate the establishment of a two-stage local self-government in Slovenia, which would follow modern societies and try to achieve a balanced social development where residents and residents themselves co-create conditions for their realization. As with the municipalities, the provinces are considered to be able to achieve the desired effects of the social development promoter only if they are financially independent and stimulated by fiscal autonomy. In the case of centralised reallocation, which is based on the baselines of deconcentration of public functions and on the administrative system of redistribution of fiscal resources by the State, without the fiscal autonomy of future provinces, it is not possible to talk about the real effects of fiscal decentralisation. The process of decentralisation is necessary precisely because of the failed project of local self-government, because we have too many differences between the largest and least number of municipalities in Slovenia. In addition, we have all too many congregations that have emerged as exceptions and, unfortunately, have become a rule. Of course, it is necessary to ask why this has occurred. The answer is in the way of funding, which has encouraged further fragmentation of municipalities. After the division of the area into two or more municipalities, the financial impact was such that the proponents of fragmentation certainly had good enough arguments in their hands. Today, we should consider how to encourage, or especially financially, municipalities to join territorial units. Of course, the positive response of the inhabitants in these smaller local communities is whether they are satisfied with the establishment and functioning of their congregation. There was a lot of funding for projects in the field of municipal infrastructure, road rehabilitation, lighting and so on. Now that projects beyond the capacity of these smaller local communities are in place, weaknesses, fragmentation and lack of landscapes show. The process of decentralisation by the establishment of the provinces started seriously only in 2006 with the adoption of constitutional changes. The adoption, however, was conditional on the arrangement or placement of a fuse with regard to the required number of votes in Parliament in a law that would also actually determine the provinces. With this manoeuvre or constitutional provision, we have passed the decision on to an indefinite period in the future, while the main problems remain, as has remained the problem of the number of provinces. The provinces cannot be established by the integration of municipalities, we have been warned in the past by experts. This would lead to the interesting integration of local communities, which could in practice mean a large number of very different landscapes and also a grey fox where there would be no regional organisation. With the current regulation, we have eliminated this possibility and there remains a dilemma as to the number of funding powers. And of course, the question of whether we first agree on the number and then the funding and competences or first agree on what the tasks of the provinces are, the way they are implemented, the financing and the way they are managed, and then adjust the most appropriate number of landscapes. The province's tasks are certainly capable of being divided into three sets. The first includes tasks that are of wider local importance and can be carried out through the cooperation of the congregations. Others are being followed, which can be referred to as the tasks of regional importance, which will be defined by law and will be, as the first so-called original competences. And the last set of tasks are so-called delegated tasks, tasks of state importance. It is appropriate to draw attention to the unresolved issue of the status of the provinces in terms of whether or not these newly established areas will be amphibians. Is it right to meet at the provincial level local self-government and state administration, which now extends to administrative units? And if yes is the answer, to what extent. Is this in the case of building permits or perhaps more? Is there no danger that the excessive transfer of tasks from administrative units to the provinces and not to administrative districts, as it was and probably is still an idea, overburdened the provinces in order to devote more attention to the tasks of national importance and less local self-government? Certainly it is essential that the profession plays an important role in this process of decentralisation. The former Minister was aware of this, as the current Minister is aware of it. This is probably because the legislation is not yet in the parliamentary procedure and is in the coordination stage. So, this legislation is ready. Talks began, as far as I knew, even with the opposition. And just at the time of the talks, we received in the procedure proposals for laws that we are considering today. I referred to it as the right-wing overcoming of the opposition a while ago; usually, such overtaking ends badly. The package of laws that we are considering today did not get the majority needed in Parliament, nor did it get when parliamentarians had a majority. Expecting the majority to get it now is, of course, unrealistic. This is because of the statistics of the proposed laws, they have re- tabled laws already in stock from the previous mandate. The results of the referendum, which notified the reservation of people to this project in particular, should be reiterated here. The question is whether the time we are in is the most appropriate time to establish the landscapes. Something is quite clear: the establishment of landscapes is not a financial neutral operation, as has been stated in the past. There will certainly be costs, but we can view them as acceptable if they will in the future constitute some new added value, development. In any event, it will also be necessary to move forward with a desire for more coherent regional development by amending legislation in this area. In this place, where we often refer to expertise, let me add something about decentralisation to Dr Stane Vlaj, who is not just me, indisputably professional authority in this area. "The main purpose of the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia is to decentralise government functions and transfer the management of an important part of public nudity, as well as public finances from the country to the provincial level. This is also linked to the issue of the optimal number of landscapes, which can have a significant impact on the scope and content of the definition of provincial powers. The introduction of the provinces should also clearly identify the assets they will have in place in the exercise of their powers and the appropriate funding system for its tasks. Without an accurate inventory of the assets they have at their disposal and without a regulated property legal relationship in the management of this property, the provincial authorities will not have a basis for taking effective management measures against this property. On the basis of a critical independent expert analysis of the development of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to prepare amendments and additions to legislation - the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Community Financing and others; which regulate the role and position of the municipality as a fundamental self-government local community. In particular, changes in the funding system of municipalities, in particular issues of their own tax and other resources, are a critical review of the jurisdiction of municipalities, the elimination of the compatibility of national and local functions, the strengthening of the participation of the population in decision-making in the municipality and others." End of quote. As this presentation is the opinion or position of the Group of Members in all the proposed laws that the National Assembly will consider today, let me say that there are still open dilemmas. And if I say the key again, it's landscape financing. We still have no answer as to whether it means transferring tasks, a way of financing a balanced procedure. Does this mean that the transfer of funds is sufficient to carry out the tasks and responsibilities we impose on the provinces? We do not have this calculation, and we will also want to see this calculation from you, Mr Minister, when you represent government laws. That's the key. [[Mr. Tanko, it's you again. But it looks like if I'm talking, it's already...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u19	Mr. Kontic, I'll warn him when I think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u20	Yes, please, then do it, President, because this is always happening. When they speak from our side, by the Group of Social Democrats, they jump into words and you do not warn them. In the reverse case, which is also happening, we always receive warnings. Even when a warning is not necessary. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u21	Please, Mr. Tanko, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u22	So the main issue still remains that is related to the financing of the provinces: whether the money will be sufficient for the provinces to carry out the tasks they will receive, or whether the money will be insufficient. We do not know this nor in this case, and we will therefore require this answer in the future. Does this money mean that only tasks recorded will be performed, or will there be added value? Added value, which will mean development, more consistent regional development. There is also an open question regarding the seats of the provincial councils and the seats of the provincial administrations. In the laws you propose, the seats are divided. Whether this is good or not, of course it is a matter of judging each individual, but this remains an open question. The mandate of the provinces remains an open issue. Is the term five years the one? Preferential voice. If we are introducing it, why is this voice not mandatory, and why will it not necessarily be used? Yes, it is Mr Pukšič, it is in the elections, but all the laws are under consideration today and we will not represent the position of others, so I take this opportunity, if I am allowed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u23	Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u24	So there are still some outstanding questions. The question is, do we love the president of the provincial councils directly in elections, or do we love him indirectly through the provincial council? One and the other have their strengths and weaknesses. The first is certainly in the power of this president of the provincial council. If he is loved indirectly, he will certainly seek a balance within the coalition in these provincial councils, with which he will survive his term as president of the provincial council, and there will be problems, such as in some municipal councils where the mayor does not need support within the municipal council. So we're going to put a conflict in the legislation. Even if so, it is only right that we are aware that this one is incorporated into the legislation. However, if we elect the President directly, i.e. in the elections, of course we will not avoid this conflict, because a different majority may be for municipal councillors and different for the provincial president, but this provincial president would be elected in this case in direct elections and would have a certain weight. So there are many questions and they need to be addressed in the future, especially to find answers. Desiring that the Government will forward to Parliament quality provincial legislation that will follow the principles enshrined in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and taking into account the documents and active guidance of the Council of Europe and the European Union in the field of local and regional democracy, where the principles of good governance of municipalities and provinces, subsidiarity and proportionality, the provision of the highest quality of services to the people and people with services will be rejected today's proposals. And then there's something at the end. I do not accept estimates that the whole Government should be involved in the consideration of the package of provincial legislation. It is enough for the Minister to be with us with his team covering this area, and for the Government I am firmly convinced that the rest of the Government has more important work to do at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Colleagues, colleagues! We're at the Proposition of the Lands Act. This law deals primarily with the organisation of the provincial self-government and the functional components of the provincial self-government. With regard to the organisation, it is envisaged that we have a provincial council, which is elected directly, the president of the province, who is elected by the provincial council from among its members. This president of the province is also then the president of the provincial administration. We also have a council of municipalities representing mayors of municipalities, as they are mayors of this council of municipalities, and this Council also has a role, it may require re-decision on a particular act, substantive change and so on, and the provincial administration. All these things are listed in the law. At the same time, this law, which we are talking about now, is also about tasks, it is called functional components of the province and the tasks of local affairs are of wider importance, and the law leaves these tasks to, in most cases, the province itself, to determine in the future what tasks will be transferred from the municipalities to the province. However, it is a whole range of tasks that the country is expected to entrust to the provinces - from regional development, environment and space, transport, economies, agriculture, higher education, education, health, work, family, social protection, culture and so on. The law also establishes a method of financing where it specifically stresses that the country or the province will have its own funding resources. This is said to be the case that the State will entrust certain taxes, taxes or other compulsory duties to the province. And when I listen to the debate and also to the opinion of the Minister himself, it proves that there are no problems in these components. There are individual comments, a different vision, for example, on the way the election of the president of the province and similar or individual tasks, there are comments, these will always - these can be amendments, correct the law as you wish. The key, or core of the problem that arises, which has always been present in the consideration of the landscapes, is the following - the way of approach, the way of thinking about the landscapes. See, the Constitution is originally, so when our first Slovenian constitution was adopted, it was assumed that the municipalities could freely merge into the province. This is said to have been a complete freedom for the local population to shape the province as it wishes. That didn't work. As a result, we have continued our efforts since 1999 in three mandates to amend the constitutional provision and somehow impose upon the State to form the provinces. And now we have in the constitution a provision that, so to speak, provinces should be established, and all the principles, the European principles of subsidiarity; that is to say, what can be done at a lower level, must be decided and regulated at a lower level. That's what they say, to show confidence in the local population. Here, as I say, there are various ways of approaching, first of all with regard to the tasks I have mentioned. The Minister did not trouble himself with the proposal for these tasks, which should be transferred from country to country, but he very clearly warned: "This will only be gradual." Why? In all the mandates, in all the debates, ministers strongly resisted the transfer of any tasks from the Ministry to the province and thus from the Ministry to the province. This is the kind of centralistic thinking where they're afraid to lose sight of things being transferred to the province. This is certainly also present during this period, which will result in previous periods, perhaps 20 years in order for the province to come to its full survival. Most of all, this entanglement in the centralistic way of thinking is shown in the number of landscapes. In fact, here again and again there is a reference to the profession, to the policy where it proves that the country will function better if the major provinces, including the provinces, function better. Yeah, it's like, it reminds me of the times when it was set from somewhere at the top or said that only in this way will you be happy, only in this way will it work, only in this way will the landscape function, only in this way will you be satisfied. Remember how the Dražgoš were burned, the inhabitants, some, killed, others exiled to the camps? In 1945, somewhere on August 15th, the then Minister of Construction came to Dražgoša and said, "Yes, we will restore Dražgoša." How? He said, "We will make two large blocks and two large joint barns, and we will unite the whole earth into one pasture." So, it was a vision of centralistic thinking how happy you'll be. And what did the Dražgoshan say? "No, we don't want to be happy, we'll just fix our own village." And in 1947 they set up a cooperative, alone and built 52 houses and 30 economic buildings with their stings in two years. How, with what right, I ask, is today someone who says who cares about the country - because what is a country other than we are people. With what right does it say that the province of Koroška must join Maribor? What right does he speak to, say, the Posavics, that they must join the New City? What's the logic here? And if the Posaviks want to be a land of their own, so be it! We have done just that because of the people's wishes we have called for a referendum and I will list first the provinces, these small provinces, where over 60% of the referendum voted that they are satisfied with the province as proposed: Celje, Dolenj-Belokranjska, Gorenjska, Severnoprimorska, Eaststierska and Municipality of Ljubljana. Over 60% want to be their own country. More than 80% said that they wanted to be independent of the province. Savinja-Shaleška, Mr Kontic certainly knows, but over 70% of the referendum said they wanted to be their province. Give me from Ljubljana to tell me that the province of Koroška must not be an independent province! That's the one, I'd say still, sorry, from a regime we knew that didn't make us happy, due to the entrapment in the centralistic way of thinking! And this is the way that is the biggest obstacle to regionalisation and compliance with this principle of subsidiarity. And you say they're too small to live. Yes, because when we separated from Yugoslavia, they also said in Belgrade, "You will be too young to eat grass." And Montenegro is an even smaller independent country! Not to mention Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, Andorra, which are smaller than our provinces - but independent countries, they can't work, can they? They're working fine. So, the whole problem of the number of landscapes is going to be in the way of thinking. Whether we trust people to make their own decisions about the fate of their homelands, or whether we will command others, without or at their disposal. And I fear that this conflict will also be decided by the Land Establishment Act, which requires a two-thirds majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you. Honourable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! Today, the National Assembly is expected to mark the debate on the provinces. Members and Members are expected to discuss for 15 hours the provincial laws tabled in the parliamentary procedure by the opposition SDS Group. The SDS package of provincial legislation is essentially nothing new, innovative or merely the continuation of the largest party to the former ruling coalition. This obviously does not know or does not want to understand the results of the referendum, which was attended by more than 10% of voters and voters in the previous term. It appears that it is a common practice to place old laws in stock, in terms of populist effects and accusing the current government of not trying to establish the provinces sufficiently, and that everything is also wrong here as elsewhere. The previous government's proposal to establish 14 provinces, referred to as political reality, did not receive such support. It followed a consultative referendum where voters and voters decided to divide into 13 provinces, 12 provinces plus Ljubljana, and with a low participation of less than 11%, supported the establishment of 11 out of 13 proposed provinces. These solutions are also followed by the proposal of the SDS, which proposes the following provinces with the Law on the Establishment of the Provinces: Celjsko, Dolenj-Belokranjska, Gorenjsko, South Primorsko, Koroško, Kamnik-Sawska, Notranj-Dolenjsko, Centralistje, Pomursko, Posavsko, Savinj-Saleski, North Primorsko, Eastern and urban municipalities, which are supposed to have special status. A package of provincial law, sent by the SDS to the National Assembly, re-enters the already heard announcement of the former Prime Minister of the Government: "The province will be 13 and one, or they will not be!" In addition, the remaining draft laws, mainly for the updated texts of the laws of the previous government, which the profession rejected. Let us remind ourselves once again that most experts, but not those who draw maps by order, have said that they are advocating a model of large landscapes that will have adequate material and human resources. So, for 6 to 8 landscapes. The current experiments with various landscape maps in the Group of Messengers do remind us of the famous river: If it is round, the shovel, if it is smooth, will be fairies. Pointy - that's it, thank you. Finally, in the Group of Ambassadors, we add that the coalition has a clear concept whereby the proposal for regionalisation will be limited to a maximum of eight provinces. Seriously, you don't write like that. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u29	Please, Mr. Tanko, stop it, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u30	fast and fast, especially in order to outrun the government. [[...]] The solutions will be quality, lasting and feasible and at the will of the people. Therefore, the Group will not participate in the next debate. Even so, it does not seem reasonable to us in the group of Members, despite the obligation to respect the proposer, that every time the bottles are opened, they and them should be hunted down by the escaped spirits at the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Does Mr. Tanko want a word as a proponent? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, Mr. Minister. A few answers first. Mr Kontic said that we know that the Government has prepared legislation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we know that the Government does not have prepared provincial legislation. Also from his further discussion, when he spoke about issues, what would be necessary or where questions were raised, it is clear that neither the coalition nor the Government in these areas of legislation are prepared. All that was presented to the parliamentary groups, including our parliamentary group, were three sheets of paper and drawn three, six and, I think, eight or nine landscapes. That's all it was. There is no discussion anywhere and no proposal for content, form, elections and so on. If we return to the previous term, then all the Members who were re-elected in this term will recall that the current opposition, among them the most vocal Mr. Trophynik and several other good acquaintances of local and provincial legislation, is required to bring the Government to the table of the set, all the legislation in the package. Indeed, the government then passed all six laws in two packages, in two cases. This government, which knew everything, absolutely everything, and this coalition, which knew everything at the time, even how to correct the funding formula in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, did not bring any adjustments to this area until today, in the year and a half of this mandate. The formula is still inconsistent with the Constitutional Court's decision. I'm sorry, it's not. In the previous term, we have worked hard and adopted constitutional changes with the positive good cooperation of then the largest opposition party, which was the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And for this change, more than 60 votes were taken in constitutional terms. It is said that at the time all those who were in the National Assembly - and here are representatives of all those parties who were then - had the need to do so before them. It's become a constitutional norm. This is not a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is derived from a constitutional norm. It's a constitutional norm. And the realization of this constitutional standard has prevented the opposition from coming into effect in the previous term. In this mandate, however, it has not yet drawn up, and it will now be half the mandate of this coalition. Therefore, do not criticize those who have drawn up a comprehensive set of provincial legislation in the previous term and in this mandate. Those who prepared this did not leave any alternatives. The solutions to these laws that we have proposed are unequivocal, clear, clear. Now, as for some other comments, Mr Kontič says: "Some local municipalities are successful only because they can successfully lobby because they can lobby." You know, I wonder if Slovenia really depends on the biggest eco-project in Slovenia. That's T.S. 6. Can anyone explain to me if there's anywhere else in the world that black people might give you green electricity? Black coals. Mr. Gantar, you were the Environment Minister, you can laugh, but you can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u33	Mr Tanko, I cannot answer you from this city and I ask you not to involve me in your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u34	That's how it is. It's hard for me to explain. With regard to this constant guarantee that Slovenia is the most centralised country. This is said by those who keep it to be the most centralised state. We, those who somehow want to move this step to become decentralised in order to transfer powers, resources, decision-making to a lower level, so that everything will not be decided on Gregorčičeva or on the Rotov Municipality of Ljubljana, prepared legislation, prepared legislation. Those who say we're centralized are opposed to these solutions and so on. In short, it will be difficult to move forward and decentralize the country if you do not prepare yourself in this area absolutely nothing. It would also be good to use and follow those stories about agricultural advice. On agricultural advice, something has grown. Those who listen to them know that what is pointed can be fairies, not something else. After what we hear from you now in this Ukrainian law mandate, nothing will grow. Nothing. It can be a party discipline, we can do anything else, we can listen to these self-questions, but it's not gonna happen. It's gonna stay central. You have no proposal to transfer jurisdiction to the provinces. Unfortunately, you don't have to ask yourself whether you want to repeat this operation seven times and whether you have the authority to do it three times or once, or to make the landscape as a amphibian or as a purely formal unit that will handle all matters in this local or wider self-government area. You don't have this solution, you have no idea, you have no proposal, you don't know what to handle, you don't know how to handle it! And now you tell those of you who have prepared this that we have not done something that we are not successful. Unfortunately, this is not enough to make Slovenia a successful country and a properly organised country. It is necessary to take a step forward and to prepare another matter. I would also like to touch the opinion of the Government. We now have the Lands Act ahead of us. This land law has some chapters written down, or all chapters are prescribed. None of them relate to the number of provinces, and depending on the number of provinces, it is not up to us to elect a provincial council or a provincial president. This does not depend on the number of landscapes. The Government's opinion suggests that this law, which speaks in principle, generally about the provinces, is inadequate because it foresees an excessive number of provinces. Dear Minister, look at your opinion. Your opinion is not in line with the bill we are considering today. Certainly not in this explanation. And that's too bad. It has also been quite clear that, from a political point of view, I will say, policies are a development opportunity for the provinces. This was clear in all the interviews we had in the previous opposition mandate. Everyone was aware that the provinces were a development opportunity. The current Prime Minister of the Government, who led the negotiating group, then in that second part of the previous term, the biggest opposition party. That's perfectly clear. There was nothing professionally disputed about this being a development opportunity. Certainly, even at the beginning of this mandate, the provinces were assessed as one of Slovenia's great development opportunities. Even at the beginning of this term! This changed that day or two days after we tabled a proposal for provincial legislation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group - 11. 12. 2009 It was only then that this attitude changed. But we put this in because in the government light, where it was determined that the government would be 10. 12. 2009 submitted a complete set of provincial legislation and did not do so. Not that she had anything in her backyard in preparation. Nothing was ready. Nothing. And that's probably why it was one of the reasons why the former minister, the former minister, resigned. One of the reasons, not the only. Only after we tabled this legislation and when the President of the Government said that this was no longer a priority of the Republic of Slovenia, but only then did it start moving slowly and type, do I know how to approach and seek consensus. For the proposal on the table, there is a great deal of agreement on the ground. It was supported by the mayors at two or three meetings in the previous term, including the President of the Government and the then district minister, and was supported by local communities, in principle, by the conclusions of municipal councils. These landscapes are also designed in line with the interests of the vast majority of people in these areas, as the referendums have also said - it was not a large participation, but a positive one. She was positive and so on. In short, it is irresponsible to say that this proposal, which is not harmonised, which does not know what, is irresponsible, is irresponsible and is also offensive to those who have supported this proposal, which has been tabled - we have modified it in this mandate, supplemented it, introduced changes and so on, which have occurred at that time, but the proposal is consistent, is comprehensive and is the only one who has ever been comprehensive, which some party has proposed as a whole. In the previous term, he is the Government, which is where the party is. To this day, all those who had the most comments on the laws that had been tabled have done nothing. And it does not seem appropriate for the representatives of the previous opposition, who are now a government coalition, to criticise the proposals tabled by the opposition. The opposition only invests them because you don't invest them and prepare anything. And I don't know how it's possible that someone who isn't in a position to make a comprehensive proposal in a year and a half can write a negative opinion if he doesn't know what to do. Someone who doesn't know, someone who doesn't know, writes a negative opinion and sends it to the National Assembly. It would be better and more normal for it to be quiet, but not with a negative opinion, which, by the way, does not refer to a point of the agenda, but rather to something else, is inconsistent and is also incorrect in this work. Calling on the current opposition to take such an approach to participate constructively in legislation that is not yet in order, as Mr Tsukjat said earlier, in Dražgoša - this will not work. We'll have a hard bargain there. But first, distinguished representatives of the government, we need to bring something to the table. And it is not responsible, it is not wise, it is not serious that the proposal that is on the table and which is the only one on the table so far in this mandate, you will be vehemently rejected without saying whether the province needs a statute, whether the province needs a provincial council or needs a council of municipalities, or whether it needs a procedure to change, or to determine the area of the country's seat and so on. We are talking about these provisions today in this law. If you reject this law, it means that these provisions do not need to be said about the extent of the work to be done by the province, how these matters are transferred from the state to the province, what are the original competences, how the provincial council and the provincial president are elected, and what the provincial administration should look like - these are general provisions. And we are not talking about the map in this law, but if you want to pair these provisions in this law, have a clear, clean opinion about them, you must also have a completely clean solution. You don't have that, Your Honor. And that is why it is very underestimating that you act in this law with such a negative opinion because you do not have a solution, as well as in other laws, exactly the same. You're testing 3, 6, 8 provinces, how parliamentary groups will react. You have no idea. Even in the coalition, you are not cohesive about not talking about other content at all: about jurisdiction, about the scope of the works, about the mode of transfer and so on. You don't have clear basic solutions in the coalition and you're against it! You're just against it because you couldn't do it in the middle of the term. Yesterday or Wednesday, when we discussed that declaration, which discusses how the government or state officials should act in these proceedings before the European institutions, the President of the Government had a half-spoke, but this is a general direction that we repeat every year. Here we have a fundamental development project, even after his opening inaugural speech it was particularly exposed and it is not here. He has other obligations, I don't know, maybe more important. Surely, however, this project is somewhat more important to the fate of Slovenia than that declaration we accepted, and the whole government was here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. The government has repeatedly been made aware that it does not know what it is doing, that it has no purpose, and that it does not even know how it will achieve this goal, which it does not have. At the same time, the debate also touched on a government proposal that you know, of course, all Members and Members in this assembly, because I presented it in all the parliamentary groups where it was not about the presentation of legislation, but about the concept of regionalisation, segregation. And in this presentation, I have shown that the Government has a precise idea of how and what needs to be addressed. And it is not true that some legislation, which is comprehensive, as we have written in our opinion, is also optimal. There is no proposal that is concluded, and it is also optimal to be given to the table. And that was what my first round of consultations in the parliamentary groups, all the parliamentary groups, where we made our exact proposal, and you all know that in this Chamber, in the division of Slovenia and wanted the opinion of Members and Members. We have also received opinions from the SDS Group, where we have determined or somehow agreed to continue to talk about the provinces. Of course, it pays because if we stop talking about it, then we stop talking about the decentralisation of Slovenia. I have talked about this a number of times, and you agreed to it, and that is also what all the debaters here agree on. So the establishment of landscapes is necessary. We differ only in the conceptual approach of what these provinces should do, what content, competence, funding should be. And the current government has decided to clear up these dilemmas on a professional basis, on professional grounds. The Strategic Council has prepared a framework for an optimal solution to the division of Slovenia. The Strategic Council established a framework, or basis, on which the Government went to talk to the parliamentary groups. The Strategic Council is preparing, so it has laid the groundwork for an optimal solution, which we will also offer to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia; do not force them from the top and tell them what is best for everyone. No, but we can offer them something that is professionally supported and which the National Assembly must accept with all its responsibility. Therefore, MEPs and Members also accept responsibility. Why did we have to change the Constitution, why was it not possible to establish the provinces from the bottom up, that is, by uniting congregations? Because there are so many different interests in Slovenia; so many different interests that have shown no coherent will to the convergence of some major self-government local communities. The Constitution was therefore adopted and the responsibility for establishing the provinces was transferred to the State authorities, this Parliamentary Assembly. And since this is already the sixth attempt at regionalisation in this period, and since we are not talking today about a government proposal that is already in place, legislation is ready, I must say that in the first round of talks with all Members and Members, in talking with the mayors where we had the All-Slovenian meeting on Brdo, it has also turned out that the current proposal we put on the table is not optimal. That's what you said in your parliamentary group, and that's why we agreed to talk and find an optimal proposal together. That is why I see no reason today to say that your proposal is bad and that our proposal is bad. Today we talk about getting the best out of everything we have. And let's put together some optimal proposal that we can give to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and tell them, look, we suggest that Slovenia be broken down in a way that we all think together, or most of us think that this is the best. And they'll accept it or not. We're not going to tell them how to speed up the dissection. And that the Government has made a broader comment on the proposal when considering this first proposal of the Law on Provinces, it follows that the Government has dealt with every law, every law of six in a package of provincial legislation in the context, because it is not possible to extract one law from the context and say, it is good in this part, it is bad in this part if it does not relate to the complex process of regionalisation. Therefore, the number of provinces is mentioned in the commentary to the draft law on the provinces. Also, the proposal to amend your proposal and thus determine an optimal solution does not seem appropriate to us because the conceptual difference is too great. You all know that we are deriving from content, from funding, from the dynamics of the transfer of competence, and only then does the agreement on the number of landscapes follow. This is our approach and also the Strategic Council has found that such an approach is optimal to a proposal that is essentially subject to negotiation. You know this frame, there's been a lot of writing in the media, and I've introduced it. I think that, as the debate on this topic has begun, that we all know that we are putting emphasis on the importance of landscapes, which is essential for putting regional policy, which has proved to be inoptimal in these times of crisis, on better and healthier foundations. However, I have repeatedly said that the Law on Harmonized Regional Development can also regulate these matters. Of course, in the constitutional form of the provinces this will be possible in one way, in the statistical regions as we now have, it will be possible in another way. But this government has in mind, above all, coherent regional development. However, the provinces need coordination, they need to be matured, and we have therefore moved the decision and the further presentation of the legislation they are supplementing to a later date. We also wanted the provincial package to be dealt with in a uniform manner, and it turned out that this wish was justified because, during the discussion, the proposed province law itself was covered by other laws. Above all, the debate has already developed in some other areas, particularly in terms of drawing on European cohesion funds, where I have to say again, despite the debate recently held in Parliament, despite two recent discussions on the Committee on Local Self-Government, that we have not only called for a third of the cohesion funds, we have only called for 105 % after the dynamics planned in 2007-2009, so that things are clear. We have called for the fifth public call, as promised, on 29 January, where we have tendered 203 million euros, while the first four tenders have so far been used 206 million euros. So that we are holding back some money to contain regional development, we cannot trace it from this data. However, the fact that regional development agencies have not done their job and have well read the regulation on regional incentives, where it accurately states that the two-stage process is now in place precisely for these reasons, to avoid problems from the first four public calls - not problems in Slovenia, but problems in return - is, in fact, our problem because the deadlines were short. Therefore, I have repeatedly said that we will help from our side in this way to try to advise the Interdepartmental Commission or to instruct it not to take advantage of the 60-day deadline for the review of municipal projects and thus compensate for the damage or delay that has arisen in this way. However, it is extremely unfair for the current government to make claims for reimbursement. The claims for reimbursement amounted to EUR 0 at the end of 2008 and all claims for reimbursement - that is, the drawing of European money, the one that comes into our budget back from Europe - all of these claims for reimbursement produced or returned money in 2009, and that is, we all know, successful, with more than 155 million surpluses of the Slovenian budget over the European budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u37	Excuse me, Mr. Tanko, first of all, the debate. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Minister with fellow Members, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. I will not support today's prepared or proposed provincial package, but I will certainly support such a package of legislation that will substantively complement all the dilemmas, concerns and comments that we have heard today. Given that we had had the opportunity to follow a very strong desire and interest since the adoption of the package of provincial legislation before this government, I am not surprised by this package. There are still open dilemmas in many areas. In particular, in the area of financing the landscapes, the delegation of tasks and also the transfer of funds, and also the provision of financial resources. Issues such as the duration of the mandate, as well as all those relating to the elections relating to the provinces, will also be important. In this proposal for provincial legislation, as my colleague said, Mr Kontic, the leader of the Group of Social Democrats, also had several conflicts. Therefore, this is only confirmed by the fact that a package of legislation needs to be completed and some definitions added. Surely, the core of the problem is not just a way of approach and a way of thinking about provincial legislation. The essence of establishing landscapes is such self-government local communities at the second level of local self-government, which will become a generator of coherent and sustainable regional development in society. The establishment of the provinces is the key to a faster and more equitable development of the country. In view of today's debate and the great desire of the past, I note that there is nothing to be afraid of, even this time, when we are adopting a package of provincial legislation, whose responsibility to prepare is on the part of the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, together with colleagues, in cooperation with local communities, as well as experts from this area. The extent to which the Government has already been prepared and in what form is today not our responsibility, nor the mayor of Ljubljana, nor the project preparers in the field of energy or anyone else mentioned today. I'm sure this is, as I said before, the responsibility of the minister, that is, the Government's Office for Local Self-Government. In view of the fact that I am also coming from an area with development problems, I am confident and I expect that in Slovenia we will come as soon as possible to take important measures and amendments to the legislation that will address the injustices that have occurred to some of the sub-regions, namely the White landscape, and to ensure consistent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible. Of course, it is also interesting that today's debate will be able to go to extraordinary widths. Today, too, this debate was so varied that it went not only 10 years ago, 20 years ago, for a substantial number of years ago, and in some cases we hardly found red or a package of prepared provincial legislation. I would like this debate today to be narrowed down, in particular in order to identify the essential arguments that it would also be easier on the part of the Minister and colleagues to draw up such a package of provincial legislation, which we will all, together with at least a two-thirds majority, also confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much. You know, there are certainly problems in drawing on European funds, there are big problems. The Ministry, in particular the Government Office for European Affairs, has blocked the development or call for more than €200 million of funding for local areas for one year. That's clearly clear. More than a year, Minister-in-Charlie, things have stopped! If these funds could be tendered through provincial affairs or managed from there, they would have been used long ago because projects are standing, projects are waiting. There are a number of MPs who were mayors, and they can tell you in concrete terms with their cases. Unfortunately, it also happened, not only in the area of your department, but also in the area of culture, that the funds would not be spent. €60 or €70 million of funding for cultural projects will be redeployed, although the Ministry has received 52 calls for proposals, only five or six projects have been approved of this and 47 have been rejected as good projects, because the Ministry has not called for funds or sufficient resources, 60 million and 70 million resources will be lost in this area. That's right. And since we do not have the appropriate landscape organisation, these problems are dealt with by this coalition in an non-systemic way with the capital law, with the development aid law of Pomurje we deal with another problem and another part of Slovenia, although we have a system law, and now we have another third modification. The development council for White Krajina and Kočevsko is hereby established. A month ago, the government visited the Ribnik-Caucasian region and White Krajina as an area that was estimated to be a region with major development problems. However, today you are calling for a development council in which you have not invited any representative of the municipalities of the fishing area, there are three municipalities, and there is no representative of the economy from this area. There is no one in this development world from the region of Ribnica, Soržica and Lodske Potok, a respected minister. Three congregations have completely fallen out of this development world! In this way, when it is politically determined who is suitable in an area to be included in the development world and who is not, they cannot and must not function in this way. That's definitely it. I have an invitation before me, a list of whom you invited. And these three congregations in this invitation for a meeting today at one in the Government, there is no Ribnica, no Soržica, no Lodsko Potok! And none of those three-community economies! With such an exclusive policy, you probably cannot expect any specific measures, no special opportunities, no comprehensive approaches, because this is an exclusionary approach. Even within the area you visited a month ago, you excluded three congregations. I don't know why, what did they deserve this for, why such a non-systemic approach? And then I find it hard to accept this story that you have something prepared. You don't! This is the package of provincial legislation I have on the table, and so many documents have not been presented to us in this mandate. That's the six laws we're going to deal with today, and that's it. The government, the government's team, the government's set-up, did not present this in this mandate, did not make a substantive presentation. You have not introduced any law on the transfer of jurisdiction - this is the law. There's no timeline on how you're going to handle this, what tasks and so on. Let us be very specific about these matters that we are talking about. We are not talking about what they are thinking in the professional council or the strategic council of the President of the Government, we are talking about concrete solutions that are being submitted to the National Assembly and which need to be decided. And later, when we decide, there will be bigger problems. Later, when we decide, there will be more special solutions for the individual partners of the political coalition, which is now in power. If we want to approach systematically, comprehensively, equally, equally, equally to all and give everyone the same opportunities - the law is the same solution that brings the same opportunities - then we need to support this, in principle, and go into the next step. And if anything else has to be arranged, we can arrange it differently. I am sure that you will not be able to prepare comprehensive legislation in this area and submit it to the National Assembly. I'm almost certain because ministers have too much appetite and too much desire for centralised management of the department they control. I'm sure it will be because I know these things a little bit, from below, because I was also the mayor, and from above. And if, at the time of the creation of the landscapes of the below, they let go and there would not have been a political decision in the then coalition at the time of Drnovskov's governments, they would have these provinces, even in this way. However, there has been a political blockade on this process. There was a law on Koroška, twice or three times the law on the Savinja-Sales region, and Mr Kontič was also a signatory, and your former or current Minister Lahovnik and so on. There was also a law on the White Land, and there was something else I could count. Nor did the North Primorski - Mr President of the Government put him in there for a long time, I do not know, 1999 or 2000, as a member of the National Assembly, perhaps even the President of the National Assembly when he did so. Yes! However, it was a political decision not to approach it in this way and to put an end to the complex process. And now that we have a comprehensive project on the table, a comprehensive proposal to do this and upgrade it is being politically blocked again; no alternative to this blockade has been offered. There's no alternative. Not right now. And it will be difficult to put an alternative on the table in the next six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! Several hypothetical claims have been made, which I will not explain, and there have also been some concrete arguments that I can explain. That we held back funds for regional development for a year - if I understand correctly - is certainly not true. It is true, though, that we had to remedy the conditions in which the first four were registered. Yeah, you need to know that by the beginning of November he wasn't pumped. So, that's what I'm saying, that's pumping, returning money. No money in the Slovenian budget under this heading, under the first four calls for priority for the development of the regions. Why wasn't he? Because the Court of Auditors had two observations and had comments by the Office of Budgetary Control. And, of course, at the same time, the European Commission. It was after we clarified these problems and at the same time did not go into a new tender, so that we could even draw the money from the first four calls, but it was a while ago. That is why we have now called for the remaining money or almost as much money as was actually spent in the first four calls. But I don't think today is the topic of drawing on European funds. The topic has recently been here in Parliament, as I said, on the committees. To see the non-systemic approach to our proposal that is not yet in place. We have had coordination, we have shown that we have systematically tackled this problem. However, I agree with you that this political theme of "par excellence" has become in these six attempts or in this sixth attempt. That is why we have come up with professional grounds to put at least some rational fundamentals for further discussion, a debate - if you like, negotiations - on a common solution. Because it is the responsibility of the National Assembly or the Government to accept the provinces. And that the establishment of landscapes from below was blocked, and I do not believe that, in the final phase of 2006, the Constitution was amended, where it was found that it would not be possible to establish from below. Well, at the time it was blocked, although I doubt that it was thought in this way, but I deeply believe that it is being thought in this direction, that somehow the landscapes still come to us. I hope that he is still thinking in this direction, at least the government is thinking that way, the coalition is thinking that way, and I hope that we will all think that way together in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the word - he's gone. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For many years I have actively participated and also talked and listened to about regionalisation in the National Assembly. In the introduction, I will tell one essential truth: regionalisation is impossible! "Mission impossible!" The original sin came about that year when we made a commitment to Slovenia having regions, and we made an original sin because we did not determine and record the number of these regions in the constitution at the time. If this were done, the regions would be today. And so, colleagues and colleagues, there will be no regions. With all the good will of the former trainee, whose content, the result of the work is being re-examined today, although the National Assembly once said no. And I believe that the Minister will want to do a new regionalisation with his colleagues, but I'll tell you that he won't. We will never find consensus and common language. At least, even though that's the least of the problems, but it's actually going to be the biggest in terms of the number of landscapes. Another time. Both in this system, there is no precise transfer of tasks and competences when we talk about the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces, as well as in the future system. And we can't determine either! It cannot be determined because we are interfering with an intermediate level between the country and between the local communities, which had already been undermined once; broken down when administrative functions separated from the content of part of the local communities. If we want to shape the landscapes, these will have to have an organisational form that will be nothing more than a mini-political regime of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Meaning: regions will have to have a so-called parliament, regions will have to have a so-called Government and regions will have to carry out certain content. Even in this set of laws that we are going to talk about today, despite the description of the transfer of powers, it is completely unclear whether we are talking about a single system or a two-track system, because at the same time we are talking about transferring the administrative functions of the country to the regions, and on the other hand we have administrative units already in this system and we are talking again about the fact that administrative units remain if the two-tier system is so called. The content of work and competences is very lifeless and unclear in the specific law we are talking about. In doing so, I should point out that - which I will explain in more detail later - means any regionalisation, or that which is set out in these acts, which we are discussing in a complex way today, or a new one, will mean the migration of a large number of bureaucrats from the national administrative authorities to the regional administrative authorities, which is impossible for the second time. Since you can write in your anals at this point, I say that even a thousand bureaucrats from Ljubljana will not then drive to seats 6, 8, 14 or how many more regions someone will invent. He won't! However, if they do not go to work at the regional headquarters, it means that we will employ thousands and thousands of new bureaucrats, which will eat this country from within. Third mission impossible. The financial assessment of a billion and a half, which is recorded in these acts that we are talking about today, is an illustrative representation, a very unrealistic display and is in total contradiction - if you have looked at all the documents, I - by dividing the funds that are supposed to originally belong to the regions, only a comparison has to be made. Not to mention a number of nomotechnic weaknesses in these laws, when it comes to to tolars instead of euros, when mentioning the years that have already been that they will, and so on. That's what I'd like to point out for the second time. In short, in this work, i.e. in this first law, when considering the first proposal for a law establishing the provinces, I would like to add this. If we are already a member of the European Union and if we are always acting, of course, I hope that it is wise, after the experience of other countries that are also members of one large country, to identify and observe the trend that applies to the European Union countries. This trend is to reduce the number of municipalities and to reduce the number of landscapes some countries have. We're going in the opposite direction. In doing so, it must be borne in mind, irrespective of the fact that this moment is not the time to deal with regionalisation. As nothing will help us, nor will the use of European funds, it will help even less, but it will harm the current economic situation of the countries of the Republic of Slovenia, because we do not know how we will treat the European Union in terms of reducing public debt, except that in the next three years we can afford more than €2 billion for regionalisation, if we have to, I think, around 1.9 billion or 2 billion to reduce the deficit by 2013. There is no time or need according to the size of the country, Republic of Slovenia, both size, area and size of population. On the NUTS-2 level, we Slovenians decided to have two provinces, Western - and Eastern Slovenia. And already this division on this European level is enough. More than enough! And this division is actually the one that is basically a fact that sets cohesion and structural policy. I understand both one and the other preparers, but all together, colleagues and colleagues, is just one fashion fly and some political foreplay, a little too early for the elections for two or three terms ahead. Let's be realistic. Regional legislation - this one, prepared, and the one that is being prepared - gives only the basis to many, I do not tell everyone, many who wish to become so-called regional sheriffs, that they will become presidents of regional parliaments to become presidents of regional governments. This is basically a hidden truth that speaks of both wanting to regionalise Slovenia. And the result, even if this regionalisation were, would be the same arguments as today, but squared. Today, statistical regions may argue with each other, which will be the one that gets more from the country, either for roads or for health care or for something else. By the time the regions are in place, the regions will first argue and argue about how much they will have, how much they will give somewhere, and then they will be fighting together with a country that will also retain certain powers and also hold hands with finance. Given the time we live in, I repeat what I said at the mayors' meeting on regional policy, now is not the time to engage in regional policy at all. There is no need now, and there is no possibility, at least until 2013, when there will be a clear picture, an economic picture, a fiscal, monetary picture of Europe and the State of the Republic of Slovenia, when we have a regulated tax policy when workers are less burdened by taxes when their gross wages are almost equal to net wages, as in many countries. And when the revenue from the taxes is collected in the state treasury, then, colleagues and colleagues, it will be time to think about it. And if we get the regions to recover at this time and be economically strong or stronger, you will notice that suddenly there will be a great desire in the National Assembly, without regionalisation going at all. And believe me, there is a lot of truth in my words, because my colleague and I, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, have also sat together and drafted a constitutional change. That's what I remember when we were sitting in one room. When, unfortunately, we haven't come up with an essential solution, which is - and I say that cancer is a wound - when we haven't defined the number of provinces as constitutionally defined. If we had done so, the provinces that are today would not have been fourteen, but as many as they would have been determined, but this legislation and provincialisation would have already been. So my personal opinion, from experience I speak, and the opinion of the Slovenian National Party is that, for the first time, this legislation - I will explain it again later under individual laws - is not sufficiently completed, there is not a picture of today's state of affairs and the one with which the Minister and his associates are working, I would recommend that we work with a number of other things that beat us badly, but they are also an integral part in that part of the transfer of competences that talks about the preparation of municipal spatial plans, even spatial plans, where the ideas are that these spatial plans will be made in the provinces, so-called landscape spatial plans, and then the landscape detailed spatial plans, and if we look at the face now together - you will carry on - so many years, 4, 5 years waiting for all the municipalities to arrange spatial plans. We're waiting with the UN, I'm talking about only a fraction as mayor, for three years, and we're not going anywhere; nowhere, right now, what would happen if each province were making these spatial plans for themselves, deciding on them, and then coordinating them in part with the country, because it says that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. With all the recognition of the work invested both to the preparers of this, to those some time ago, as to the future - once again: a waste of time. This is an impossible mission. You'll see!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, he's not here. Mr. Goncz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, I do not see the distinguished representative of the Government and of my colleague, or just colleagues. The basic position of my and also of the Hungarian national community is that the provinces in Slovenia are still very necessary, as in the case of well-established competences and relations with local communities and the country and with appropriate organisation they can undoubtedly be very important, perhaps the most important factor in the process of implementing more coherent regional development. Of course, the key issue, as has already been highlighted several times today, is the transfer of competences in both directions, i.e. by the country to the provinces, but also by my opinion from below, i.e. by the local communities to the provinces. And in this regard, it is an extremely important issue, which is likely to always be a stumbling block, the financing of all transformation or the whole emergence of landscape organisation. As we take a closer look at this complex issue also through these laws, which are now on the agenda, we are increasingly aware that in the area of transformation of local self-government in the past almost two decades, there have also been legal and practical inconsistencies, which unfortunately have, indirectly or directly, affected or even affected the problems of the adoption of provincial legislation. In view of the experience mentioned above, there is no doubt that fundamental substantive issues need to be considered, which means that this important task can be carried on indefinitely. Now or today, there have been quite a number of speakers who have expressed quite a skepticism about the fact that this matter can be moved from a dead point. Nevertheless, I am adopting the proposed laws by the largest opposition party as an additional warning that this issue is being approached with even greater seriousness. However, there is also a lot of political, conflict-related, I will say, 'fights', but nevertheless this can also contribute to the work of this project even more intensively and even more professionally. On the basis of the Minister's statements or on the basis of the monitoring of events in the past months, weeks, it should be pointed out that certain steps have also been taken. Unfortunately, a consensus needed to overcome party interests and build on some solid professional foundations is not yet on the horizon. That's a fact. With regard to the specific proposed texts of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, as has already been pointed out, are largely identical to those already before us, which in itself is not bad, the proposals and interests of the national communities are only to some extent taken into account. Certain matters are covered by the six laws mentioned above, but unfortunately, our particular aspirations are not covered by those laws. Unfortunately, they were also not fully covered by the explanations we received from the current government when the Minister presented his initial concerns about the emergence of new provincial legislation. I therefore stress that our most important position, or our tendency, is, in particular, on behalf of the Hungarian national community, to give in the national mixed area, which is already a constitutionally defined place for the realization of the rights of indigenous national communities, also within the framework of the provincial legislation, a guarantee for a specific unit that can be called a sub-region or otherwise, where development opportunities and the continued realization of linguistic, cultural and other rights can be better addressed. Finally, I would like to stress another point, which, despite very in-depth substantive discussions and some views, is that the most important segment of this legislation should be the optimal way of transferring competences and funding - unfortunately, only the most important stumbling block is the number of regions or landscapes and issues in this regard. Therefore, finally, in the case of my or our region, I must point out that most of the inhabitants of Pomurje, of course not all, but most, are defined as Pomurje as an independent region. I think that such an approach is justified for several reasons. Without in-depth discussion and interpretation, if I mention only historical, national and national, religious, social, economic, demographic and, last but not least, developmental aspects, I think that this is the position of the Pomurcs towards such a region in any kind of organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u48	Hello, everyone! Of course, we feel the need for regional organisation, probably in Slovenia, and especially in the municipalities, where we also perform a number of tasks, where we are already somehow implementing the provincial content. For a better understanding, I would like to present some of the tasks in the Municipality of Nova Gorica, and from practice, I may be a little longer. Caring for the development of health care, for the champagne hospital, is the concern of the city’s congregation. The development of higher education, the University of Nova Gorica - a million and a half years for this educational infrastructure - the state gives nothing for this. We're building a campus - so it's a matter of the Municipality of Nova Gorica. Taking care of professional firefighters, civil protection, that expensive equipment is our concern. The area of culture, it is a library, the Slovenian National Theatre, not least the concert activity that is open throughout the space - is exclusively our concern. The area of sports, not to mention regional clubs, football, kayaks and the like - is our concern. Sociala, Addiction Center, Methadon Clinic, SEN -, Mother's Home, Protected Housing - are our concern. Infrastructure of wider importance is said to be large investments in pipelines covering the entire territory, cohesion assets and so on, road connections. The economy, construction and operation of the technology park, a million-and-a-half resources are provided by the small economy fund for interest-free loans, grants to agriculture and so on. Cross-border cooperation, this is the specification here at the border where we overgrown those campaigns of friendship, cycling, local communities and so on. Today we are building on the European Territorial Association - yesterday the President of the State specifically stressed this and was pleased with this initiative, which is unique in Europe, and we hope that we will be successful. So, these are content that is very important for the whole of Goriška, Primorsko, and they happen in a narrow territory and are the responsibility of the city mayor. I could count it, that'll be enough. I am lucky, however, that Nova Gorica, an old congregation, has only fallen apart in six municipalities - not like in Prekmurje at twenty-four or I do not know how many - that these six mayors, regardless of customer affiliation, we meet, negotiate and help each other. Of course, given the historical, cultural and economic, as well as geographical or relief facts, we are counting on the independent North Sea Region, because the size of this region is not really that important, I am talking about relief, about surface size, because then in Italy the province could be from the border to the Dolomites one province, and this does not happen. I must also say that the single province of Primorska means that the distances to realize some of the interests of citizens and citizens are extremely large from Bovec to Kopra as far as Nova Gorica to Maribor. Then Slovenia is one province and the matter is resolved. An important element of the functioning of the landscapes are also financial resources, something about this has been said today very timidly and big steps cannot be afforded here by the state and we understand that it will be necessary gradually, not overnight, to take these steps and to share financial resources in parallel with the tasks. There is also a great deal of inadequacy in the election of organs to this province and so on. However, I think we should also start discussing the content of the State Council in parallel. This one deals with lectures today, round tables and so on. With the establishment of the provinces, this State Council should have some other content, especially if the mayoral and parliamentary functions were to be incompatible, then there should be very responsible and challenging discussions. Today I was sure that we would talk more about content, but something else is going on or so far. The applicant's performance was based on criticism that there is no whole government here, that there is no Prime Minister and so on, but unfortunately there was no substantive emphasis in the proposal to help clarify some problems. I allow myself as a brilliant judge of the performance of my colleague Pukšič. His offer to help with the right legislation in the SLS - yes, what can the minister help himself with his performance here when he spoke about slave-ownership tragedies, the experience of Greece and other pamphlets that do not belong here, and last but not least Dražgoša and Rotovž and so on. On the basis of such discussions of the provincial legislation jointly drawn up by the opposition and the position, it is likely that it will not be for long, as said by colleague Barovic. That is why I trust in the work of the current ministry, the Minister, that even taking into account the content that has been agreed so far and not all bad, and I must mention here the contribution of the former Minister, I apologize, Dr. Zhagar, that some of the elements can be used in the preparation of new legislation. And I know that a group of experts in this area is working intensively and that this legislation will be one that will require sober and smart decisions from all of us here. I will no longer speak at this session because I see that it makes no sense because we are not going to the content, but we are going to some assessment of everything; the economic situation in the world, domestic health and so on. I thank you now for this attention, and I hope that we will only reach this legislation in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I would also expect the debate room to be much more occupied, so that it is really here in the debates the ability to summarize some useful advice; in particular those who have been working on this subject for many years and who would know a lot of useful comments or a proposal to make, of course, the government itself. We will probably not see the Minister in this debate again today. This certainly shows some attitude towards this subject, which I think is very important. If there is any thing that we can all regret together in Slovenia, it is that from 1991 to today we have no provinces. As the provinces would contribute to a significantly different development of Slovenia, a smaller centralisation, Slovenia would develop more evenly, which would also divide the economic power of Slovenia, there would not be so much day migration of employees from all parts of Slovenia to Ljubljana. For Ljubljana, the quality of life would rise substantially because what the people of Ljubljana have from thousands of people to tens of thousands of people driving to Ljubljana every day. That's why, as I said, it was a missed opportunity, but it's never too late. That is why I do not really understand that the current government is not aware of this necessity after the establishment of the provinces, especially given that it already has an excellent basis in the legislation prepared in the previous mandate. For in the previous term, there has been great progress by changing the Constitution. This was a major project that we carried out to the end, and also legislation. Six laws have been drawn up, many laws have also been supported by the then opposition Members, by the municipalities, and it has not really been all wrong with that legislation, as the coalition is trying to represent here today. There were many, many good solutions. I believe I also supported all the solutions, because it was better then than it was possible to design. We also had a long and wide discussion at the time, not just in the National Assembly, but in fact all the congregations had the opportunity to comment. So it was a group or a section of different interests. I agree with the predecessor’s earlier statement that there is a great deal of pressure in the city’s municipalities in the areas of education, health care, and, last but not least, the care of the elderly. I come from one such municipality where we have very large financial burdens just to finance such projects, and now this is the burden of large municipalities, and it would be better to divide this into regions that bring together more municipalities. If we had regions ten years ago or even more ago, I firmly believe that we would not have so many congregations today, some truly small, are too small. But that doesn't mean it's bad. Each new congregation developed more rapidly, at least in the same area as it would otherwise have. This is why it was an emergency for decentralisation, because if we did not have small or new municipalities, the matter would be even worse in Slovenia. That is why I am truly assessing that a large congregation that has formed would not, if we had a region, and I can be sure that in the case of regions there would be sufficient political will, sufficient knowledge to enable a large municipality, which is small, then decide to unite or unite, because this would make it easier to operate mainly in larger projects. And regions; we are talking today about a number of regions. Dear colleagues from the coalition as well as from the government - what is this number? What's the right number? Even resisting the profession - even the profession here is not uniform. However, I believe that imposing on people what regions should be, what should be, I do not think it can produce the expected effect. It is precisely because of the delay in the absence of regions that so many statistical regions, and some new desires, are being established, that is what people are living with today. They expect anywhere in Slovenia that the region will be. They won't accept any other solution. And that will be your responsibility to do so. I would like to know which Member from a particular area will agree with the proposal that the regions from which it comes will support it when it is no longer there. And if we talk like this all the time, we act like this all the time, we'll never get to the regions. In this part, I agree with my colleague Barovic that this could be "an impossible mission". But I don't believe that. This consensus could be found here. This number of provinces, which we also tested during the referendum in the previous term, could be better than nothing. I tell you the truth, I don't know the answer to which number is right. However, I know that the region from which I come is the Dolensko-Belokran region, which covers approximately 140,000, is certainly one geographically completed whole with cultural connections and with all this and is the right one. For others, it's up to those people who come from there. Today, primarily by the coalition, everyone is critical, with an extraordinary predecessor, to criticize, but they have no concrete argument to improve the matter. Here to open up the dilemmas on this legislation that we are putting, respected colleagues from the coalition and the government, you are the one who must solve the dilemmas. You're not the one who's going to put new dilemmas on some proposal. That's why you have a mandate, and that's what you're supposed to do. We in the opposition would also like to discuss your proposals, give you constructive suggestions. Unfortunately, these matters cannot be discussed. I am afraid, and I agree with what my colleague Tanko said earlier, the government has nothing yet to prepare, and it is likely that it will not be for a long time. If we talk about all these dilemmas over and over again, open them up, we will not draw any concrete conclusions in order to do so, to unify ourselves and to go into action. We lose every month because we don't have provinces. And the solutions to shutting down now, that was the Fire Act, and we supported it to save Prekmur. I don't see any effects, I'm afraid we won't be able to achieve those effects in the future. For the White Country, something special should also be for Ljubljana. The provinces would have arranged things systemically. But, unfortunately, it's not. I think that the other fire-fighting measures will be weak, or they will not have the expected effect, so none of this will happen. I hope that this legislation, of course, will reject our proposals, just as they reject all our legislation that we are making. This is already the practice of this coalition. That's not good. Let that be an incentive. Let today's debate open up some new aspects, take this into account, use this, and then we will come together to that goal. As I said, the provinces of Slovenia need to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dearly-reverred present, well-welcome! I think it is very good that we are talking today in the National Assembly about the Proposal for a Law on Provinces, because if not, at least we will be able to elude some of the things that we are proposing in this legislation, so that the Government will then be able to draw up a proposal with which I hope it will succeed in the National Assembly. I am very, very much in favour of the proposal for a law on the provinces. The provinces in our country should already be for a number of reasons. One is certainly the most important, and this is decentralisation, so to speak, consistent regional development. In this area we feel a great shortage in other parts of Slovenia outside Ljubljana. We were able to do much in our country when we decided to establish a number of congregations, since in these congregations everyone and everyone in his own way is working to establish better living conditions. This is why the Slovenian countryside is much more regulated than before. The establishment of the provinces would also improve regional projects and contribute to a better standard of living for citizens of Slovenia. I would not repeat what has already been said about the advantages and urgency of establishing landscapes by predecessors. However, this should not be a matter for policy to decide, but only for the profession. Working in the National Assembly is such if anything is proposed by the opposition, there is no way that the coalition would support the proposals, and vice versa. I therefore propose to the coalition to take into account some of today's thinking about the provinces and immediately propose that, in the adoption process, we do not miss all that the European Union has been offering us at this time. Let's not forget, not for long. Today, too, we can see the interest in our joint proposal in establishing the provinces. There are very few of us here in the National Assembly, and I think in some ways this is the work of the place of time to God and the state of money. And when we talk about such important things and so few of us are there, it seems a shame to me that I don't know who we're talking to here, who we're suggesting, who we're talking about, how urgent the landscapes are, because none of those who should listen to us are listening to us. That is why I really propose and advise the coalition and the current government to prepare its proposal for the law as soon as possible, to take into account as many of our thoughts on this proposal as possible and to put it into interdepartmental coordination, and then to come to the National Assembly with it, so that we can all work together to find as much wisdom as possible, as it is for the welfare of Slovenia to adopt such a law, with the aim of decentralisation in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, the National Assembly! The introduction of landscapes is a very difficult project. No government has ever called a national council to that effect. The landscapes are a demanding project, and so, after professional consideration, they are even more politically. For the introduction of the provinces, a key law requires 2/3 of the majority of the votes of both Members and Members present. This is a project that requires the consent of both coalition and opposition parliamentary parties. And what did we get on the table today? A package of six laws proposed by the biggest opposition party, not even the opposition as a whole. Now, so to speak, the Slovenian Democratic Party expects us all to jump into the air with joy and vote for a project that has already collapsed under the Janša government. The presentation of the first-signed proposal by Jožet Tank made it clear that they were not serious about this project. The presentation itself was very brief and without substantive emphasis, only a critical observation that today the entire ministerial assembly, with the President of the Government at the helm, should be sitting here today and that the Government has not prepared provincial legislation in time. As the main reason for the consideration of the opposition proposal by the provinces, the proposal pointed out that the Government had not prepared its project, which was set out in the government's future plan for 10 December 2009. And look at the fragment! The omnipotent or possibly omnipotent SDS filed its laws on December 11th, the following day, which are a poorly copied copy of the Zhagar laws three years ago. As far as I know, they did not ask the other two opposition parties for support, not only to ask for a preliminary question as to whether there was any support in the coalition. The provincial legislation has therefore been filed with a fig in its pocket, knowing that there is no possibility of obtaining the required majority in the National Assembly. So the manoeuvre of the biggest opposition party, which has been seen so many times in this mandate, the SDS will not only save Slovenia from the clutches of the global crisis, but will also bring Slovenia so hard to expect. In fact, they're stealing time from God and from all of us. Today, according to the timetable, we are expected to discuss a project for which the proposer already knows in advance that he does not have enough support. Of course, the National Assembly will not conclude its regular monthly session today, but the entire structure and apparatus of the National Assembly will have to meet on Monday, which is reserved for work in parliamentary groups on the ground. Of course it's worth it. Constitutional indictment by the President of the Republic, interpretations against ministers, extraordinary meetings on anti-crisis measures, and today the whole day-long provincial mass. In my opinion, this hyperactivity of the opposition SDS seriously hampers the normal work of the Government and the National Assembly, so of course I propose that we reject all proposals quickly, and I also advise the government to put this project as an advantage. It is already clear from this package that it will be very difficult to get enough support in this mandate for the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia. I already remember very well how the previous President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, said that this is not only a project of this, it is said by their governments, but a joint project of the whole of Slovenia. Then we went to the referendum on 22 June 2008 and out of 1,692,000 voters came to the referendum voter 185,830 voters and voters, saying not even 11% of all who were then asked whether they wanted the provinces in Slovenia or not. And I would have taken that data seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Just a quick answer to the obvious. My colleague Bevk said I had a very short presentation. We wanted more, and the coalition won't allow more than five minutes. Such a part of this burden certainly goes to the coalition's routing, which also makes it impossible to discuss. Second. The coalition has tabled or the opposition of the SDS has enacted laws or laws for which it will not have sufficient support. I wonder when the opposition should invest anything in the National Assembly in this mandate if we have not received sufficient support for any measure. And a third. An indication of the magnitude of the time. Yesterday we spent a third of that time discussing freebies. This is certainly a fateful project for the further development of Slovenia, but the free people are not, because they are also gone. And he wasn't complete because you let go of all those who sponsor your option. Let's say Mr. Golobic is sponsoring Telekom on his freebie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The question of the establishment of the provinces and the issue of provincial legislation is, in my opinion, a fundamental question: 3, 6, 8, 14, 12 or some other. I think that in the previous term this was one of the most important problems. What country will there be if there's six? And that's probably why there's been a compromise. As I recall, this compromise was also reached on the basis of the cooperation of the opposition Social Democracy, which has probably forgotten this today. However, when it comes to the issue of the provinces, I think this is a key issue at the moment: centralisation-decentralisation, coherent regional development or a strong centre, strong Ljubljana. Previously, the predecessor, Mayor of Nova Gorica, spoke about the tasks of the Municipality of Nova Gorica. I am afraid that if this goes on, only one country will survive, and this will be the country of Ljubljana. We will no longer have any province, only the state of Ljubljana. And the country of Ljubljana today has more parking penalties than is prescribed by law. Even to avoid knowing only Ljubljana and then nothing more, we need the provinces. And if it's a political compromise that there are 14 of them, I don't see any problem that there are 14. If that's acceptable to people. We don't set up the landscapes for ourselves, we build them for people. What is the purpose of the province, what is the purpose of the establishment of the province? To bring local self-government closer to people so that problems can get closer to the region. That is why these tasks are also defined in this law. What are the province's tasks? I think that those people who are closer to problems that are closer to problems could decide within their own province, within institutions, within the bodies that they would choose. That's what this is about. Let's just see what problems we have with waste management because we have a country and then a municipality and we can't set up regional landfills. How much easier it would be if we had a country and the province could handle the problem of waste management on its own. So regulating space, managing municipal waste, all of this could be solved in the provinces, without burdening the Ministry. The province itself would simply solve this task in the context of political decision-making through the provincial council for the benefit of the people. The proposal also contains an extremely important issue, the transfer of the powers of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia to regulate provincial roads. See, today the state roads, which are in some municipalities, are decided by administrators, bureaucrats at the Slovenian Directorate of Roads with all the care, but how does one official in Ljubljana seem to have a problem in a region. Hardly. He's a bureaucrat. If the problem of the resolution of the provincial road network is solved by the province, the authorities chosen to do so are solved through the budget. Do you know how many more provincial roads we would have and how many fewer administrations we would have on the Slovenian Directorate for Roads today, and how much easier would it be for us to decide on the priority construction of roads? Oh, no! Why? Obviously because a strong administration, a strong state apparatus is wanted, because the government, as an executive branch of government, can then share the government and probably the strong centre, the strong Ljubljanas. Public passenger traffic. I was appalled when I received the answer to my question. From Block to Ljubljana he takes one bus daily through Postojna. There's barely a bus from the Backwaters. Why? Again, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads decides on this. This is the jurisdiction of the province under Article 13 of this Law on Provinces. How much easier it would be to organise public passenger traffic. How much harder it is now that no city bus can be extended to a suburban municipality. How much easier it would be if the country were to make that decision so that it would be closer to the people. There's no need for philosophy. It is that people living within a region who live within an area where they feel they belong, not only within the congregation, can also solve their problems, not because they need Ljubljana, they need, I don't know, a minister, a director, an agency and I don't know what. No, no, no. In order to be able to draw up a budget within the democratically elected institutions of the District Council, they shall draw up their priorities and thereby improve the quality of life. And that's all this is about. But he obviously doesn't like you at this point again. I think there is nothing wrong with the Government being inactive, that we are active in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I understand that if there are no members of the coalition, but that there is no minister who would listen here and perhaps hear arguments again, this further convinces me that the Government wants to be actively inactive in solving the problems that concern all people. And don't worry when people ask me what we think, what our position is, I'll say we can't even get an answer because, unfortunately, Minister, I don't know, he doesn't have time to sit here today and listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Urh has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Györek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Znidarsich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! As I recall, the discussion on regionalisation has been going on for quite some time. The longest was the end of the previous term when the coalition prepared a complete set of legislation. Unfortunately, this is the kind of law that requires a two-thirds majority. There the then opposition, the present ruling majority, said no and the matter stopped. But we both got to the point where we figured out regionalisation was fine, that's positive. This will bring something positive. The only one with the number of landscapes, and that's where we came across. There is the present ruling majority, then the opposition, said, no, no, 14 or 13, as far as the status of Ljubljana is concerned, that is too much. If you asked anyone after the kuloire, "now tell me which provinces should not be, we can agree on that." "Yeah, I don't know, mine has to be." Of course, we're here now. We're stuck at the number. And as far as I've seen in this term, I'm going to say, before the elections, there was a lot of talk. On the side of the current largest ruling party, it was said that I would be less rural to halve this number. Then there was some number from 5 to 8, approximately. As far as I know, this thing is dead. I can't hear any more if there's gonna be 5 or 6 or 7 or 8. You're supposed to have fewer. We didn't write down in our marriage how many provinces there were supposed to be. That's what they say. It's completely open. If this law, which we are now discussing, are adopted, it is possible to determine exactly how many provinces, if you know how many there must be. We'll take it with understanding, just say the word. The point is, we all agreed that we all agreed that the provinces would have a positive effect. We were all together here. We have now come with a complete proposal for provincial legislation, which can also be corrected by amendments, to improve it. You just say, it's the optimal number for you. And if you've agreed on what kind of landscapes we've already defined, it won't be. It surprises us to learn that some say that laws are too detailed. Usually the problem is that legislation is too detailed and then problems arise and cannot be defined. Thus, it is very easy to make detailed legislation more general. This can be done during the procedure. But we also heard what surprised us that the provinces would have too many tasks, which at one time they should be introduced. There's no problem here either. We can make a time shift. Two years from now, we'll do that. Three years from now, we'll add this. If it works out for the good, let's do it again. There's no problem here either, only will has to be done. And if I come from the current state of Slovenia, it is in a deep crisis. We don't like it, nobody likes it, but these are the facts. If we admit it or not, the situation will still be the same. What is more problematic is that the crisis in Slovenia is worse than in other European Union members, especially when compared with the euro area. This is exactly the opposite, as it was in the previous mandate, when the situation in Slovenia was significantly better than other Member States of the European Union. That's what it says, in this bad year and a half, a lot has happened to the worse. And why am I stressing that? I stress that we are lagging behind in the use of European funds. There were no two calls, one then showed up, but this invitation was such that it would take almost a year. And what's worse - the conditions have changed. If we had the provinces, I doubt that we could be able to deal with the provinces in this way in order to change the conditions already during the tender. And I don't want to talk about it now. It'll be a second chance to explain it to you. But for once, I'm sorry, that's the way it is. It is large funds, 200 million euros, which Slovenia still needs in a bloody way, and whatever it takes to build, or roads, plumbing or anything. It would be an investment activity. We know that construction companies are probably in one of the worst or deepest crises. How good it would be to have €200 million so that construction companies can do what is useful for everyone. This would not only be useful for construction companies, but it would be useful for the whole of Slovenia - for citizens. And the construction companies would have a job. And I doubt if we had any provinces that just so calm souls an official could call Brussels and say, "Wait a minute, we haven't made up our minds yet." We made a deal. It's projects. Only officials can't invent new conditions. Earlier, 85% of the infrastructure had to be added and now 95%. In the beginning, however, more had to be done, and then it had to be reduced. That's what we're saying, from one cup to another so nothing happens. If they were landscapes, that wouldn't be possible. And one more thing. We all agreed that the provinces were positive because this would eliminate the backlog of individual areas in Slovenia. One official in Ljubljana is looking at a matter in Prekmurje like this and in Primorskie like this. And it's important to him that his statistics were "blank." After all, how else can he behave? But if we have provinces, it's important for the one in the country that things play. And that is why we have also proposed this set in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we are aware of this responsibility and that it is essential that these European funds, which are now elsewhere in the plan and are rejected by our bureaucracy in Ljubljana, are likely to be activated more quickly and be as necessary and as necessary in the present time of this deep crisis, when we say construction is drowning in debt and has no work. I support this legislation. However, I am in favour of if it is necessary, if anything is unclear, to define it and resolve it further. But it's the will to have, and apparently you're not now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Campus. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u62	Honourable Vice-President, Professional Fellows of the Honourable Minister Gjerkesh, colleague and colleague! In accordance with the principles and objectives and guidelines, laws such as the Lands Act, the Lands Act, the Financing Act and, today, we are under the first indent of the Lands Act. The Constitution provides that the provinces shall be established by law establishing their territory, establishment and name. The fundamental criteria for creating a proposal for the establishment of landscapes in the Republic of Slovenia are optimal regionalisation and decentralisation of the country, which is most important. An appropriate balance should be struck between the four aspects of decentralisation: territorial, political, administrative and fiscal decentralisation. The fundamental starting point in the developmental acceleration function of the provinces, which is crucial to me, is still somewhat controversial at the moment. From the point of view of the spread of the current level of GDP in Slovenia. So the differences in the provinces are quite large at the current level. Within this, of course, we need to find a way to bridge these differences in a time period of ten, twenty years. The issue of landscape design is also directly linked to the jurisdiction of the provinces and to financial and other material aspects. What do we mean by that? With this we want to "avoid" the adoption of such a special law as was adopted for Pomurje, so we need to organise the system in a manner that ensures a proportionate, even development of all the provinces in Slovenia. The model of division on 6 or 8 landscapes represents models of the separation of the medium-sized region, of course from a Slovenian perspective, but not from a European perspective. The key advantages of these provinces, which are expected to be from 6 to 8, are: greater support for a polycentric model of regional development, greater continuity of services due to the lower distance of the provincial centres, greater identification of the inhabitants with the province, which is also very important, greater adaptation to the needs and interests of the population, greater territorial cohesion and more frequent naturality, which is, of course, all of us want, the establishment of a larger number of administrative centres and associated better care and a greater opportunity to establish inter-regional and macro-regional development coalitions. Of course, I join the opinion of the profession. Economic, social, geographical, comparative, cross-border national, European, globalisation and other reasons dictate the establishment of 6-8 provinces. The model of the great province, which will have sufficient human material resources to manage their tasks, also means that it is a stronger partner against the country that we are all afraid of. It also means cross-border links, which, of course, we want in these border regions. This isn't happening right now. So on our Slovenian side, we want to establish landscapes. They have provinces on the other side, and we don't have an accomplice. 6 to 8 provinces must have at least 100,000 inhabitants, which is, of course, a normal condition. In this model, too, the Premur-Pleague region was mainly due to a specific geopolitical situation, some developmental specificities and a conditionally variable regional development potential. Of course, it is true that our provinces will also be divided into constituencies. True, several times it has been said that the pomur region is a specific, i.e. fara-municipal. I will not say how positive it is and how negative it is, because of course everyone would try to deny these things. However, I think, given the profession, it is clear that the profession actually rejects everything that would be more than 8. I can say that I do not want to see the provincial legislation with unserious receptions, which we are witnessing, but I support legislation that is serious. I must say that a large number of smaller landscapes do not have any development charge, which is the basic requirement and purpose of establishing landscapes. The provinces must be independent and independent. This is the purpose of provincial legislation, not what you or you are telling me. It depends on how satisfied our citizens and citizens will be. Not how happy you and those who now have some pretensions will be. How happy our citizens and citizens will be to see faster development in this province, more opportunities in all aspects of life, including new jobs and so on. That's the whole point. Of course, what you think is negligible. This law, which brings 13 provinces, cannot be supported at this time. For a simple reason, because you have not already received a two-thirds majority in the previous term and therefore the submission of this package of laws is again relatively unrealistic. Proposers probably realized that Minister Gjerkes had taken his work seriously, professionally, and had done well in preparing the province's legislation and had prepared it in a relatively short time. He prepared it on a professional basis and on the basis of the recommendations of the profession. At this point, I would expect the applicants to withdraw such a law. With this you will contribute to the normal course of legislation prepared by Minister Gjerkes, which I expect will also receive a green light with your support in the next few months; that is how I wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Good thing it's my turn. I have to say that I have a "significant statements" on my computer, and there will be quite a few of them from today's session. Even what we just heard. Before that, we heard from the representative of Really: "We are preparing quality, lasting and at the will of the people the right solutions." Well, I'll probably ask him a lot more times when that's gonna happen. Let's go to the dark. That'll be better. This government has not prepared provincial legislation. We have just heard that the Minister is preparing provincial legislation or drafting provincial legislation. That's not true. It is good that Parliament is also allowed to lie. Besides, it's a landscape thing that's got a beard for a long time. This morning it was said in one comment on Radio Slovenia that this has become a matter of political prestige. I'd even agree. But probably, if the commentator thinks the political prestige of the political left, then that's true. Then I'll fix it. This also shows the presence here between us: the three members of the coalition and the twelve opposition. That was the situation just before I started talking. The fact is, the provinces are a universal consensus that we need them. Everyone would probably press the "yes" button if we voted on this issue. But look, no government so far, except the former, this is the government of Janez Janša, has brought anything to the table yet. In the previous term, we received at the table a package of complete provincial legislation. We came to the National Assembly and said, "Lady, this is our proposal, the opposition please, say, help and move on with the provincial legislation." The result was "niet," I'd say the Russians. Collective pressure on the "no" key. And Mr Kontic said at the time, because he abstained from voting on the key law, he already knows why, because he would probably come to Velenje a little bit. Directly in Velenje are Members from the previous term, I have heard them and I can tell you very clearly, we must have Velenje, we must have Sasha, we will fight. But then they came to Parliament, and they began to say that there should be fewer provinces, that strong landscapes should be made, etc. But there must be Sasha among them. It doesn't matter if she's small. On the part of the then opposition or SD, we have heard very clearly, 'we will prepare new legislation, we will prepare better legislation'. I'd say that's right. We'll help with that. There's no problem here. This cannot be for us and there is no political prestige. You wrote in your work plan that November of last year is your deadline. We have not written any government work programme for 2009 - you wrote down that in November 2009 you will introduce provincial legislation. We've been looking forward to it, at least for me. To see this better product than that of the government of Janez Janša. Of course we didn't see that coming. So you didn't respect your hand and you waited. I don't know what to do. For better times? When we have already tabled, it has been said again wrongly, when we have already tabled a supplementary proposal from the previous government, I stress that when we have submitted it, but because you have not made it, the Minister with six sheets of paper or a few sheets of paper has arrived. Of these were three maps and three leaves of text. What was in there? 3, 6, 9 or 4, 6, 8, it doesn't matter, the landscapes painted in the variants, asking, "What do you think would be better?" And three lists of explanations. I must say, he came after we had already filed that request. So the situation is absurd. In your previous mandate, you stated: "We will not support your proposal. We'll make a better one." Developing strong regions and so on and so forth. I'll be straight. At home you lied to the voters when you said, "But Sasha must be." But when you're in power, you put your hands on it and you don't respect it. On the same day the Prime Minister is working on Parliament, the Prime Minister says, "This is no longer a priority." I'm afraid my friend Barovich is right when he says, "That's not gonna happen." Of course there'll be nothing, you can't do it. In fact, it's not really a question of whether or not you know how to do it. Probably, given that I know you more or less from the MNZ, which you've been dealing with for many years, we also probably have the most fun working at the Ministry or the government service. Why? Because they push these numbers for one government and another, they know exactly that you will not support it or that at least this government is not capable of doing it at this point. Of course you will vote against it because it is the free will of every Member. But all you have to do is consider putting an end to these political games and finally adopting this legislation. You can fix it, let it go today. Fix it and do 3, 6, 8, I don't know how many landscapes you think are right. Or, if you're going to reject it, for God's sake, bring yours! Or I will suggest to my colleagues that we bring it to you again in the fall if you fail to do so by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Jurša, he's not here, Germich, not at all. Mr. Tessel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u66	Well, hello, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! That Slovenia needs provinces is more or less known to everyone for several years. And much has been done in this area since the previous governments. Then, suddenly, the notion that it is not well prepared that this is not real, but long ago, in the time of the previous government, we have come together to the fact that there is a need to cooperate, both the opposition and the position, to reach those quality provinces that Slovenia needs and are also accepted by people. What will help us if Parliament imposes something and people do not accept it! This was shown at the referendum two years ago when there were about 11 provinces between 13, while for two people they were not at the referendum, so it was crystallized that it might be acceptable for people from 12 to 14 provinces. When we hear from Koroška that Koroška is not a province, they immediately begin to hurl that there will be no provinces in Slovenia without Koroška. If we see the number of inhabitants of Koroška, we see that among the smaller provinces, so that in the context of natural history, historical, economic and population centres are somehow the most rational 12 to 14 provinces, as the previous government has already presented in this set of laws. Not all of them, but they were rejected at the time, they were not completed, and we are proposing that something move forward today. Why are the provinces needed? For a more equitable development in Slovenia, so that centralism will not increase. This has been seen in calls for development programmes in regions where there was no call for tender last year, while the previous four have already done their job well. However, this invitation to tender took place on 29 January last year in all the offices of last year. We hope that these projects, which have been carefully prepared, will also be implemented. The law for the development of Pomurje was passed as the most endangered province in Slovenia. And similarly, the Belokrans came to Parliament with a law on the development of the White Land. This law was not adopted because the coalition did not support it, in fact in the form of an amendment. However, we hear that now some development world for White Krajina and Kočevsko will help develop them. On the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, we talked a lot about the consistent development of Slovenia, about the need for provincialisation, but other regions, like Prekmurje and Bela Krajina, need somewhat faster, more consistent development. Kozyanski is very dangerous with the Host. We have also heard about Koroška that there is great unemployment. If I say Kozyanska and Obsotelje, it is twice as much unemployment as it is in Slovenia. According to the latest data this week, we have heard that 6.8% of unemployment is in Slovenia. It's over 12% in Kozyansky with the Observer. We've also heard of the threat to Zasavje. This is how my colleague Gorenak and I prepared the law to submit it - if it were accepted as White Krajina - also for Kozyanska and Obsotelje. People are usually quieter there, waiting. Since it was a promise that within six months, the government's system law would be drawn up, then we did not hurl similar laws. We still rely on the Government to draw up a law on the equal development of the country of Slovenia, so that it will not be necessary to introduce individual laws for individual provinces. If we work together to get to that optimal number of provinces, this will be better for all of Slovenia, because after 2013 we can only hope to draw on European funds if we have a province where much of our Slovenia is still below the European average. Otherwise, we're threatened with no more funds. I know you will not support these proposals now, but we trust that you will prepare legislation as soon as possible so that we can support what is good for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I support the proposals that we have tabled in our parliamentary group to introduce the provinces into Slovenia. We have already seen in the previous mandate that Slovenia is very unevenly developed, that some areas are in conflict or that their indicators are significantly poorer as regards employment, GDP, businesses operating in the region and so on. That is why we have already decided in the previous term to take this step and to draw up provincial legislation. That we took things seriously, it seems that the first analysis was done, that solutions were discussed at many levels. To tell us today that we are making old laws, we felt that these laws that we have made are good. I think so today, because the solutions are premeditated and are also the result of those debates that we held not only in the coalition at the time, but also with the opposition, with local communities and with all those who are right to be involved in these discussions. The minister says the proposal is not optimal. However, we know that since 1994, when we have established local communities, we have been talking about the second level, namely the provincial level, which we have never been able to bring as far as the previous government has brought and actually prepared a package of laws that provide answers to all the questions. The minister says he's got something in store for them to be. We know that the government in your time is increasing so that it probably shouldn't be as difficult to put together and prepare things as it should be. Finally, citizens and citizens in the referendum said yes to these laws or in such a way. And now to imitate the extent to which the participation was and what everything with the referendum might have been wrong is not in place. It is up to those who come to the referendum, and they have decided that we want the provinces, even how much and what. That is why, in a way that allows us to delay and return to the beginning and talk about basic things, we decided to talk first about what the congregations would do, what their tasks would be, only then will we deal with the number. Of course, you do things the way they've always been done before, and they haven't brought anything anywhere. First, we talk about the number of landscapes and prove to each other how much the right number would be or how much the wrong number would be. As it is said, I support the proposals and I hope that you will, too, that Slovenia will finally be more even.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u69	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Although I am firmly convinced that another part of local self-government is essential for the development of Slovenia, that is to say, the provinces. It is true that in the environment from which I come, the number is essentially irrelevant, whether it will be the number six, ten or fourteen. I'll stay in the same province myself, even if that's the number three. As far as I'm concerned, I haven't promised my electoral base any province, and I'm not burdened here. But it is true that today, I find that for everything that is going on in the National Assembly, as someone has already said, it is a waste of time. You could say that someone wrote a script, or it would have been better said that this script is re-emerging than it was a while ago. But the writers are the same. Otherwise, we have heard that this scenario has improved a little bit or copied a little bit, which I cannot say. But I'm pretty sure the players in this scenario are about the same or you're the same. All of this is actually meant for our viewers and viewers at home in front of TV sets. What do we tell them about this scenario or today’s discussion? We tell them that we ourselves are not firmly convinced of what we would like today, except to offer them what we have offered them some time ago. This was 14 provinces, the province's legislation, which was actually adopted by the electorate and the electorate at the referendum. That's the truth. It is also their autonomous right to go to the referendum or not. But if we were to tell them at that time that only one euro should be given in order to establish the provinces, these people would actually say no. But that's another question. But since we all have our mouths full at this point, how to unload the economy, I am going to be half- ridiculous or maybe not even serious in front of the public, I will make one proposal. If we are all in need of the provinces, if we are all to avoid additional burdens on the economies and our taxpayers, let us make the next move. We can't get past the promised issues: 14 landscapes. That's what we promised. We promised 14 statistical regions. The previous and previous government and the current government do not actually hope to face the situation and offer a smaller number because we have been talking about fourteen regions for decades. And that, of course, is the problem. And let's say that we're going to transfer as much power from country to region, we're going to do this at the state level: we're going to cut the government by half, we're going to halve the National Assembly, we're going to end the State Council, we're going to save so much and so much money, and we're going to put that money on the regions with their tasks. In fact, when we have regions, the government will have much less work to do, and the National Assembly will have less work to do, and the next move will be a little less work in administrative units or in municipalities. But almost no one hopes to say it out loud. And I'm not going to be very serious about this proposal either. But that's a way to save money. And on the other hand, to say that we will only save the economy with the regions or even development of Slovenia, otherwise I firmly believe that this will not actually happen. It is true that we have also heard today that in some European countries there is talk of shrinking the number of regions, including shrinking the number of municipalities. It is true that these processes have been working there for 20 years or more, so that we too may find in 20 years that there may be too much and perhaps some region of the congregation. In this regard, however, we have brought some new quality of living to the congregations, especially in the countryside. There's no doubt about that. We may now have to give added value to this quality of stay. However, this added value can only be given by decommissioning taxpayers and the economy and dedicating this money to development. Finally, I would like to point out that we are likely to discuss the same problems with the next scenario that the Government may draw up, or perhaps others, and again we will not be able to decide whether these regions are 5, 6, 10, 12, 14. Therefore, it would be significantly better if we cannot find a single scenario to leave this topic to date and deal with everyday problems, which is to improve the economy and ensure better living conditions for our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u71	Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Although the Minister is not here, all three operational programmes have been accredited. They have been accredited with the institutions of the European Union and with our budgetary control institutions and as our Court of Auditors. The Minister said that there was also a complaint that no payment request had been made by the European Community. Minister, show the documents that this is true. If not, before this high assembly, you speak the untruth, and you cannot and must not afford it. So how much? We know that the European Community has praised and not praised, it does not matter, it has accredited all the programmes and everything has been agreed with it. Saying there's something not, but it's completely irrelevant, it's not even true. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u73	Does the representative of the government want another word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. On behalf of the proposer? Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u74	One fundamental or key objective of establishing landscapes is to reduce development deficits. You probably all know this table from the previous mandate when the former government wrote down the regional differences between the individual provinces. In fact, the vast majority of these landscapes are in twice the condition, having twice the result of gross domestic product per capita, such as the central Slovene province. If we exclude Ljubljana, this difference is even greater. And if we do not transfer powers to the wider local community, to the provinces, we will not transfer the tasks and carry on the part of the resources distributed today by some centralised state institutions, these development deficits cannot be reduced. There will always be a motive and a voting machine that will allow to invest, say, in the stadium in Ljubljana, in other major projects in Ljubljana, that it will be very difficult to obtain funds for the University of Maribor or for the European Capital of Culture, which is also, by chance, Maribor. There are, where funds need to be redistributed in this way, extremely serious problems within the government and within this coalition. And by drawing up the law and the provincial laws, we are trying to lay the groundwork for the content that is now concentrated in state institutions to be distributed to the wider region. To also manage, management with these content starts on rounded units, that is not all in Ljubljana. But obviously there is no hearing in this government coalition that this decentralisation of powers, tasks and resources is done, because the central authority represented by this coalition does not have "corrosive" and does not have confidence in "people in local areas to leave it and enable them to develop. You know, in this case, provincial legislation is not a prestigious issue. A prestigious question would be if two competitive proposals were available to have a proposal, such as SDS and a government proposal. Today we are not at this level, because we only have a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we do not have a government proposal. And that's why we can't talk about prestige here, about the prestigious battles for this project. It is that we have decided to propose this, because Slovenia needed this project in the previous term, it was also a good condition for us to accept it and it needs it even more in these difficult times of crisis, in this mandate. If we were to establish, in the opinion of the President of the Government, only those things that are financially neutral and the province-building project were defined by the President of the Government by Mr Pahor as financially burdensome, then, if the Government had done so, it would have somehow understood that. At that time, however, in an unfunded, neutral way, the Government established the National Quality Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, with a million and a half budget, the Public Road Safety Agency, with a legislative proposal that came to the National Assembly on 26 February, then the Capital Investment Management Agency is established, the Fiscal Council is set up with 200 000 euros of the annual budget and so on, the Food Security Agency, the Energy Regulators Agency and so on. In short, many things are burdensome, but they are not necessarily necessary for the even development of Slovenia. This project is necessary. We are surprised that the government here also opposes the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u75	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone still wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm guessing you don't want to. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Monday, 8 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is the first defence proposal for the law on the transfer of tasks to the integrity of the premises, within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and first-signed Members requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Mr Zvonk Lah, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u76	Dear Members and Members! Mr. Vice President. Among other laws in the area of provincial law, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has also proposed a law on the transfer of tasks in the area of jurisdiction of the provinces. Indicatively, the tasks of the provinces are determined by the provincial umbrella law according to the areas of individual tasks. These are tasks performed in accordance with the applicable sectoral laws either by the State or by the municipalities, and the tasks of the provinces should be specifically defined and delegated to the provincial authorities by regional laws. I think it is now infertile to discuss in a long and broad way the decentralisation and deconcentration of the state authorities and the tasks of the provinces, which are among local issues of wider importance and tasks of regional importance. If the provinces are at the level of the NUTS 3 territorial breakdowns and can be directly involved in the implementation of individual cohesion policy instruments, competences and tasks should be determined in specific areas. And if the provinces are the second level of local self-government, the powers and tasks should be looked up from below in the principle of subsidiarity. The tasks of the provinces in specific areas such as regional development, environment and space, transport, economy, higher education, education and sport, health, culture and other legislation relating to local self-government should be defined. We now have regional development agencies, regional development councils and if the Government is preparing a new law or if the law, as we have heard today, is already ready, why the government has not asked itself whether these regional development agencies have some experience. They were preparing certain projects and would consult with institutions that are now at the level of local self-government or at a higher level than municipalities already functioning and preparing laws. The government is citing some experts who have their own views and say that 14 provinces are too many, but we think that if not local communities, at least national associations of municipalities should be informed in order to share experiences in this area. However, as we have already heard today, there is no such legislation prepared. And unless we build a second level of local self-government from below so that what municipalities are not able to do as well as the provinces, we must first find those tasks, gather them together and properly organize them at a higher level, and then all the tasks that the state now manages, and we find that they are poorly managed, we must try to include them in this provincial legislation, that the provinces also carry out certain tasks. We've heard from the Minister of Local Self-Government how to go through a two-tier system, that is to say, the administrative units remain, as they have been so far. However, we know in local communities that this is wrong, that certain tasks are duplicated and that it would be a much better unitary system of landscapes. By transferring delegated tasks from the country to the provincial level. We also know that there are many tasks that the Republic of Slovenia has promised mainly in the area of municipal infrastructure, which are exclusively within the competence of local communities, it has promised to remove by a certain date, but this is not possible. The provinces here would probably give a certain or better law to address these problems that we have. That's why we represent this law. He'll probably be struck by such fate today as the rest of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for an introductory explanation. Mrs. Dussa Trbec Bucan, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u78	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces constitutes a specification of the provisions of the law on provinces, which is also part of the proposed package of laws. These provisions are detailed and unbalanced and therefore are restrictive in the areas of the original tasks of the province, a task of regional importance and of local matters of wider importance. The individual chapters of the law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces interfere with sectoral material laws and are amended and supplemented by the definition of tasks to be performed by the provinces in their original or transferred powers. The government considers that there are too many tasks that are suddenly passed on to entities that are not yet there. When the provinces are established, they will suddenly have to assume the burden of the tasks of all 50 laws contained in the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces. In the main part of the areas contained in the proposal, it is important to note the tendency to restrict powers transferred to the original jurisdiction of the provinces, which is expressed on the one hand by the misunderstanding of the concept of local self-government and, on the other hand, by the importance of transferring tasks to the original jurisdiction of the provinces. The proposed amendments and additions to the sectoral laws show great imbalances in the scope and manner of approaches to address the legal issue in question, which should require the establishment of the provinces. All of this is contrary to the doctrine of local self-government and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The Government believes that the key original competences must first be laid down, taking into account their development role and their importance in achieving strategic development objectives. The provinces should also not be burdened at the start of their operations with the management of national administrative tasks. In order to begin the work of the provinces, it is already necessary to lay down the original jurisdiction of the provinces by law, to establish a gradual transfer of the institution's rights to persons of public law in the field of regional tasks, the transfer of state property and the relevant personnel to begin the work of the provincial administrations. For these reasons, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the continued treatment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Yes, what to do, it's a big pile, there's a lot of content in the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces and it's very extensive to study. In this part, the purpose clearly expressed, which I will not explain in the introductory part, represents what the original tasks of the province are, what the tasks of the province are transferred, what belongs to the original and transferred, what exclusive powers and mixed powers are. Very general. This is just an organigram that explains the meaning of all these terms and then explains them in more detail - and I will stop here for a longer time - for practical cases. So, what's being transferred from different areas, what's left of the country and what's left of the country and how it's being financed. Let us begin in the area of regional development. This law states that the provinces will be a functionally territorial unit for coordinating sustainable development. The introduction discusses cohesion policy or the division of Slovenia into two provinces, at NUTS level 2 at the European level, to the Western and Eastern regions. Explains how important this is for cohesion and structure. Finally, he still lives in the hope that at this NUTS 2 level division, our country will receive some more structural resources in one part, i.e. the eastern part of Slovenia. Well, I hope that's true. Well, it is interesting to see how this law provides for the division of power in the provinces. We would have a provincial council that would be the highest body whose members would be elected in direct elections. In addition to the provincial council, led by the president of the province, elected by the provincial councillors, the next body would be the consultative body, the council of municipalities - it would be composed of mayors from the province. Then we would have a provincial administration to carry out their duties and responsibilities. In all three parts we see that we have increased bureaucracy by at least half - absolutely. More people would be required to carry out their work and we are already in the provincial administration to come to, in today's state, one major imbalance, namely, the regional development agencies, which are supposed to be responsible for carrying out their tasks and responsibilities, but we note that there are several regional development agencies that have a status form of private enterprises, which clearly means that we would have a provincial administration, but that we would still have regional development agencies besides them, which would have individuals who would be development agencies, not, who are already and who are then doing their own work for the provinces, which is clearly clear nonsense. And I'm not just talking about this law, I'm talking about those laws that will still be, because a lot of different, at least in this area, they won't be able to be. I am stopping at a part of the environment and the area where this law stipulates that spatial planning would be among the tasks transferred to the province, in order for the landscape's spatial plan and the detailed landscape spatial plan to take place in the provinces. The fact is that today, when we have a country and when we have a local community and we are all anxiously waiting for spatial plans to wait for them for three and a half years, in particular in our congregation, we are waiting for one part of the municipal spatial plan from the Ministry of Agriculture, we have already got the gray beard of King Matjaž, and we still have nothing. Well, in this case, nothing's going to happen and it's going to be "total" chaos. I speak from practice because that's what's going on. It then gives the provinces the authority to build their own and rented apartments, and the province should regulate housing policy in accordance with national policy through the Public Housing Fund. Even today, in statistical regions, it is very difficult to go to the so-called "business" of building apartments, if it is, of course, already within the conflict, who, where and with whom and why. In all this confusion, we will have regions that will receive all these powers, and these regions should cooperate with the housing fund, which, as far as I know, given that I would like very much in these days or maybe this year or next year to build an apartment, I can only wipe myself under my nose. I do not know what policy it is to transfer competences in the region through housing construction and cooperation with the Housing Fund, if today individual, small local communities are very difficult to cooperate with, but not only because of the Housing Fund, but also for other reasons. I will not lose words about the economy, because this law also refers specifically to the place where I am at home alone and the closing of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, where it suddenly changes the way funding is done, as if it doesn't matter whether we eat fruit cake or eat chocolate cake. Four thousand people worked at the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, and now there are about 400 to 500 employees. All powers and funding will now be transferred to the region. And I'm just curious about the list of regions that are at the end of the landscape worlds, how vehemently generous the Stoners, the Mengshans, the Domžalians will be with the money, so that the Rippers and the Hrastnians will close the Mine. Here I have at least a guarantee of the state which has committed itself to the law to finance the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, but I am speaking specifically, as other mines are also mentioned. At least that's what I have if it goes to the region and if I look at who's going to be in this region, it's perfectly clear, I'll show you or prove it with one case. When the invitation to tender for Termoelectrica 3 Trbovlje, the referendum was, were for construction, the referendum was only the Trbovlječci, Hrastnični and Zagorjani. The whole of Slovenia was not for this. But now that we've got the mine closed down, will the whole region be there for it? Please, not new, not old. Not to mention the things provided for in this Act to be passed on to education and sport, where the State is paying attention, the transfer of competence to secondary and higher education from the country to the province, the division of the institution's rights and the obligation to finance should be transferred to the provinces and the State should retain the power to give consent to the decision of the provinces. Why are we going to have the provinces now, I don't know, so many and so many 100 people who are going to work in the field of education, and when they do all this, the state is going to say, "Wow, now let me know that I'm going to give my consent or not." Tell me, what else are we going to have to do with someone else who's going to make a decision about the state? Nonsense! Spending time, money and increasing red tape. The biggest nonsense is in the health sector, where secondary and tertiary levels of health care, which means hospitals - tertiary level is a specialist thing for me - is passed on to regions. I mean, from here on out, I didn't understand anything else. How can we transfer secondary and tertiary activity, hospital activity - if we look at the real picture today - to the provinces? The provinces are supposed to take care of this. The provinces are supposed to be organized. Do you know what that means? This means the collapse of health care, the total collapse of health care! How, in cooperation with the state, will the provinces maintain their hospitals and maintain their health care? And this law even imposes on the strengthening of public health, health insurance and health care. Not to mention other areas. In the area of internal affairs, the country is expected to transfer asylum seekers and foreigners to the provinces. Let's save them! It says here, in this law. But if we look at the composition at the end - because my time has run out, as I've heard - it's actually that in another marriage; because I've read so much, but I've seen a little of it in 14 provinces, I don't know, the average of 14 to 20 of these people in the saints. [[...]] If we put it all together, it comes to about 300 people who would have, I don't know, 500 "experts" and come to 2,000. Not to mention how these provinces would have been made up. In short, there'd be a bigger fight than it is. It's the law. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Friday, procedural proposal. [[It's a technical problem.]] Mr. Puksich, there's a lamp on your back.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Now it's working. Mr Vice-President, I would like to know whether the coalition has announced obstruction at this point of the agenda, given that there is no one in the Chamber at all. If there is no obstruction, however, I wonder under which article of the Rules of Procedure a coalition can afford such ignorance under such important legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u83	No one predicted obstruction. I wasn't informed about that. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, Members of the Coalition are not obliged to be here. That's my short answer. And right now, there's nothing I can do as chairman. But I'm also a little embarrassed to be sitting in front of an empty hall. Mr Milan Čadež has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. And at the same time congratulations to you as the only representative of the Coalition for the presence in this Chamber. At the outset, I would like to say that with the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia, there will be no additional costs, since by transferring the tasks to the provincial level from the state level, we are not only putting up with decision-making powers, but also money with all the necessary personnel. We are transferring 4 000 200 employees from the state level, mostly based in Ljubljana, with all resources of a good €200,000, which are carefully distributed across the provinces and also from sources of funding in appropriate consumption and tax on legal persons. In assessing the costs of the provinces, however, we have also carefully worked out the costs of carrying out the mandatory tasks and the development tasks together with the investments. The main importance of regionalisation is decentralisation, and most recently also deconcentration, since the provinces have 87% of the support of mayors, municipal councils and, as has been shown in the last referendum, also majority support. We propose the transfer of three types of basic tasks to the provinces. Firstly, tasks of wider importance, such as the provision of public services of regional importance, which are now at the shoulders of the congregations, but are operationally difficult to carry out. These are regional waste dumps, regional economic centres and various development centres. Another time. Administrative tasks under national jurisdiction which are now exercised by administrative units and other powers, provided that they are so provided for by a sectoral law. And the third time. The main tasks are in the areas of regional importance, which by their nature are neither state nor municipal. I want to go into more detail on these areas. This is an area of regional development that accepts the objectives of regional development, the development programme and ensures a coherent development of the entire area, at the same time as the development strategy of Slovenia. The area of the environment and the area that adopts spatial acts of regional importance, the implementation of housing policy, the implementation of land policy and so on. The agricultural sector, which plans agricultural policies and implements state aid measures, is then of regional importance and prepares development programmes. The economic sector adopts economic development, plans a policy to promote the development of tourism and entrepreneurship. The transport sector builds and maintains regional roads, which are mainly those that are now state-owned, except for those roads that are now motorways and fast roads. The area of higher education adopts programmes for the development of higher education and research of regional importance. The area of education and education and sport shall establish and finance educational institutions in the field of sport, reception and implementation of regional programmes of education and education, as well as their operators. The health sector establishes a network of public hospitals, receives and implements a health programme, provides public health measures and coordinates emergency medical care. The area of work, family and social protection shall plan and organise services and programmes in this field and shall provide advice and organisation of assistance to individuals. Together with the country, it can also establish social work centres in its field. the protection and resolution of programmes and the implementation of protection and resolution measures, specific measures, the interpretation of increased risk, the organisation and management of natural disasters, and the assessment of damage. In the SDS Group we support this bill and the comprehensive regionalisation of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u86	Nice greeting, once again, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Vice-President, three coalition members and, of course, an empty hall. The development paradigm of Slovenia is probably based on what we see, what we listen to, not on regionalisation, but on empty words for this government coalition. The proposal for a law on transposition and the competent ones I have in this package is the work of the former Government and Minister Žagar. All I'm talking about is the law, the transfer and the powers that the provinces would have. The proposal for the work of this Pahor government is in these 11 pages, but unilaterally typed. So if it were bilateral, that half would be less. So this is the answer to the seriousness of the problem we are facing. Today, there was also talk about whether they would be, what kind of transmissions would be within a few years and so on. This Act, which has 420 articles on transfer and competences, states in Article 419, "by the beginning of the work of the competent provincial authorities, the competent authorities and entities responsible for carrying out certain tasks under this Act shall be competent authorities and bodies who carry out them upon the application of this Act." I recall that the previous opposition, the current coalition, also opposed proposals for a two-phase transfer from administrative units. We were also in a coalition of different opinions, different opinions, and most of us were in favour of a single-phase transfer. And so it was also somehow coordinated with the opposition, and this is also in this proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the provinces. Very specific and very precise is this law, with its 420 articles, also made. The projection of the transfer of personnel, which is exactly what we proposed, by the way, May 2007 and November 2007, were two sets of this provincial legislation, the first three, and then the second three laws. This was discussed by 83% of all congregations in 182 for the establishment, i.e. positive for the establishment of 14 provinces. Of course, it did not happen because on 1 February 2008 the opposition did not support the establishment of the provinces, because 2/3 of the number of Members present is needed. Look, a projection of the transfer of personnel from Dolenjsko-Belokranjeska 250, Koroška 150 etc., to not list everything, so transfer to the provinces would go 4 thousand 200 people. So 4 thousand 200 people from state institutions would go with this bill in terms of the tasks and competences of the provinces. This also, of course, means that 4 thousand 200 people would emigrate to Ljubljana daily and, of course, this would also be the case here, of course, for the cadre, highly educated, so that we also accelerate the remaining in less developed areas, in the areas where they lived. After school, we could return to our place and, of course, build up and develop this place with our knowledge. We've also assessed the resources. It's a source of funding for the provinces. It is estimated that the so-called suitable spending, such as in the municipalities, would be approximately. 773 million and other assets of around 267 million, a total of €1 billion, or additional European funds, 200 million, which means just over 200 million. A little over a billion 200 million. And now, if we compare this with the proposal that this government has made, it says so; see, instead of 420 articles, instead of a few centimeters of thick material, this government has prepared an estimate of the costs of the first and second years of the operations of the provinces, the costs of the operations of the provincial councils, the provincial administrations and the implementation of the delegated tasks in the first and second years are estimated in the table below. And what has this government prepared for delegated assignments to the provinces? Road infrastructure of 38 million, financing of cultural institutions of 23 million. In short, for the whole of Slovenia total 97 million. If that is the case, then I agree with Barovic 100%, I will sign with both hands that we really do not need such landscapes, because this would be only the costs of the operations of the provincial councils and the provincial administrations and absolutely nothing else. So here, with Article 119 of the Law, we have written precisely, clearly, excitely, that this transfer is done, which is normal. We already have practice, so we set up congregations, and within about six, nine months things moved from those municipal congregations to individual congregations, and that's how things worked. Of course, in the first year, and in the second year, out of 97 million people, they propose 146 million, and I don't know, they add to the protection of the environment and 11 million, and the educational profession, in general, 20 million. In short, completely unprepared and frivolous. That's why, of course, I'm even more surprised by some instructions from the government that the opposition dictates something, "dicts" and I don't know what, they actually didn't prepare anything, and then they say that solutions will come from the government. When do I ask you? When will you, colleagues and colleagues, bring a solution from the government? You say you have a concept. What is the difference between our proposal and your proposal? In terms of concept. In the concept of financing and in the concept of competence. Yes, we have proposed and proposed a billion 200 and something. We propose 4,000 200 people working at regional level from the state. You are spending 100 million, which is the budget of one of the major municipalities in Slovenia. There's a conceptual difference here, but it's about as if we were talking in kindergarten, on the one hand, and on the other hand with the subject's carrier, the department's degree assignment. There are, of course, differences here. Some today report to the opposition that they should not expect you to support this opposition proposal. We're not here because we expect you to support the opposition proposal. At the first presentation of the law on landscapes, I said that in the Slovenian People's Party we expect you to prepare it, amend it and offer it, given that we have the legislation done, you have finished your work, only the bun needs to be cut and buttered inside the marmalade or honey, what suits you better, and offer breakfast and things will go away. We're offering you support. We have told you that in the Slovenian People's Party we do not care at this time whether you come with any number, but come and tell us. But it's true that you have to make a deal, but that's no longer our problem. As I have already said, in 2007, 83% of all congregations gave support to the establishment of these 14 provinces. These 14 provinces are underexploited. They have a lot of developmental charge, just like the municipalities that are formed and still emerging, they want to produce a lot of developmental charge. If we look at one of the youngest ones who was formed four years ago, the first mandate is now expired, how much development charge this congregation has toward the former great upper-Rangon congregation, the young new congregation, the congregation of Apache. Let's just look at this case and you'll see that in 4 years there is more developmental charge than before in the Upper Raggon Assembly for Apaches in three mandates. That's the quality you'd get. Colleagues and colleagues, it's not true that this creates costs. Yes, the cost of €1 million against the other side of the prized billions of euros. I have already pointed out that you will spend a billion not using European funds. And we will ask Pahor, indeed, for a traffic light, where it will say how much money has returned from the European budget to the Slovenian budget and how many calls have been made for the use of these three operational programmes, i.e. EUR 4.2 billion. Of course, this is how people are overwhelmed by everything, as well as the landscapes, as you are now doing only in regional development. A call that was and then you cancel it. Look, in a month you're saying it won't affect you. March 30th, then you have two months to issue your rulings on May 30th. Then the signing of contracts and, of course, the deadline for the appeal. What if someone complains? Then it's over. However, if they do not complain, they shall remain with the entities, municipalities for the implementation of the project for 3 and a half months. Since on 30 September you are asking us to put out claims for payment on the SVRL. Can you really play like that? Or can you really, in these times of crisis, when money is actually lacking, and on the other hand there is a lot of money, and we don't want it, you don't want it, you don't let it be used, and there are programs, and everything is with you - but yes, one problem is, obviously you haven't had enough, so you haven't had time to look at it. That the congregations had prepared and what had already been done — yes, building permits, for that is not the case. That's how you get it. You go to the market and buy it. It is simply not to understand why this is happening in this adulterous country of ours. Perhaps the answer is - I said earlier that you have a government in your hands for a year and four months, but given that the President of the Government said he wanted to continue working on drafting legislation for the formation of regions by reaching a two-thirds majority in this high house and thus establishing landscapes as an instrument for overcoming development differences. So you agree that there are developmental differences. What would she be like if we didn't have congregations? I don't even think about it. I don't even think about it. However, it has been two years since SD Borut Pahor, the then president of SD Borut Pahor, said as he had said, took more time, that was 28 January, that is more time to prepare quality legislation. In this regard, he stressed in particular the law on the financing of the provinces and on the transfer. Okay. Two years from what he said. Listen, today, after two years he's still alive. Not alive in that sense, physically, but alive as Prime Minister, still. But two years later, after two years, his government comes with 11 unilaterally typed sides, which is better than we do with only one law on the transfer of tasks, which is five centimeters thick. It was, I know, because I was in the coalition at the time, it was still difficult to achieve that the ministers - of course, because when ministers are ministers, they think that ministers will be able to live forever in this position - move something to a lower level, to a regional level, where it would be significantly different and better. A simple man just doesn't understand that in this country. We told you we're offering you a hand of support, and all you have to do in the coalition is decide whether or not you'll do anything else. But if you don't, tell me who's responsible for something. Or you can face citizens and citizens, which is obviously the paradigm of the new government, the reality in particular, only lie and speak false things, for which there is no responsibility or what is going on. Today, according to the data, there are already over 100,000 unemployed and, of course, everything else, which, unfortunately, is part of it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces. You, in the coalition, make additional proposals or amendments, complete them, and we will also support them in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. You want procedural? Just a minute. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Lach has the floor, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond to Mr Barovic's debate, which he was obviously looking for in this law some things that he does not understand that he would be able to oppose, and in the end he said he was afraid that he would escape funds to close the mine. With regard to the economy, as he mentioned, I would say that we will have regional development agencies in addition to the Regional Council, that it is not true that these regional development agencies will shut down. Although I must point out that within regional development agencies there are regional development councils, where representatives of the economy are also present, because they will probably not be in the regional development councils, there may be work bodies. That this is good and that the representatives of the economy have also participated in the current plans of the development programmes which the regional development agencies or the regional development councils of the regions have confirmed that this is good, that cooperation with the economy has also been good, as projects are also to create better conditions for the development of the economy. However, it is likely that the landscapes themselves will be in better contact with the economy in the provinces themselves, and their interests will be more pronounced. So it is not to be afraid that there will be other institutions that now exist and, in my opinion, work very well, as countless of these projects have been prepared by regional development agencies or municipalities. The other thing is around space, he "assumed" around municipal spatial plans. It is true that this matter has been going on for a very long time, that there are major problems in this area, but I must say that the state does not have a national spatial plan, which is a roofing spatial act, which is supposed to be produced and followed by the provincial spatial plans already envisaged by the Spatial Planning Act and below the lowest level, are municipal spatial plans, which are, unfortunately, so long as they are prepared and are a major obstacle to the preparation of the necessary projects. We only have a spatial development strategy, which we know is a combination of developmental desires that this strategy cannot be followed or acted by the community in adopting their spatial plans. And there are reasons to look elsewhere in this area, probably in the department. Then she'll be in health care. Presumably, the provinces themselves would have made a primary health care network that we still don't have after 20 and more years, we don't know where health stations should be, and we don't know how many people can "force" or abuse and make a medical station on a local level. It would probably be easier for us to agree where a personal physician, a dentist, and this network are needed. We know that there are a lot of doctors missing in the countryside, that everything is concentrated in Ljubljana itself, where the average concentration of doctors is lacking in the countryside. Then around school. Of course, the landscapes would also be involved in the planning of a higher education organisation, even now we have few, but the consent given by the state is normal, as the country must have some higher education programme, because we could then also invent a maritime school in the Obbysjeví, and probably not the most prudent. In addition to this, it is likely that higher education organisations would be better planned in the provinces, as the economy would probably dictate certain education and education of the people needed by the economy in the area of the province. Now, however someone invents a college in one part of Slovenia, they acquire sufficient conditions, they establish a university, and then we wonder what the quality of this learning process is, or who teaches and what kind of graduates come from these schools. Usually, though, most of these end up on the job market, few of them are available, and we should ask ourselves how many of these graduates or those educated people are then in a state that does not benefit anyone. That some university-grade machine engineer sells vacuum cleaners on the ground, I think it's too expensive a frame for the state, because I think there's a lot of them missing. And I think this would be much better regulated in the area of the provinces themselves. Of course, about the increase in personnel or red tape. Mr Barovic is probably right to have a two-tier system for administrative units to remain and then the provinces to be organised separately. The tasks of municipalities and provinces are already being duplicated, only if the provinces and administrative units were to remain. It's okay here. That is why we have advocated a single system where administrative units are organised to be taken over by the provinces, although in view of the current situation there is probably a question of how useful this staff is, given that they are pure bureaucrats and they are not in the municipalities. And they're much more involved in the lives of the people themselves, the economies. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u89	The word has Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble - it is not. Mr. Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone. However, given that Friday afternoon is also worth talking about these contents, which are at least essential for us to proposers, much more than any other content relating to the regulation of the repressive body, the Police Act, and perhaps the family code and so on. Why, in fact, the provinces are almost ridiculous to repeat. The introduction of the provinces leads to decentralisation. Many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, if the provinces were already functioning today, should not visit a ministry in Ljubljana several times, but could do so at the head office of the province. Here's the question. The general public in Slovenia is almost certain that we do not have the landscape because we cannot agree on how many provinces we really need. In the previous term, we have tried to clarify that this is not about the number of provinces we want, because this is a political project. We agreed so far that we could change certain articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which requires more than 60 votes, we had more than 70. Here, when we consider the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces, the fundamental question is: Is it really an obstacle or a barbarous number of provinces, or is the content of the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces? This was very clear and clear when we were approaching, in fact in the previous term, to conclude the consideration of the provincial legislation, where we could hear in some places, in some ministries, the public disapproval of some employees of individual ministries, where they literally began to fear that if they transferred the tasks and obligations to a lower level, they would lose their jobs or move from Ljubljana to Mursko Soboto or Koper. Here the fundamental question is whether it is not at the core of all the problem when we begin to talk about the transfer of power. The proposal for a law on the transfer of orders to the jurisdiction of the provinces is indeed an entrenched pile of paper. This was probably the most demanding for all those experts from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, led by Minister Žagar in the previous term, and this is very successful, and this needs to be recognised today, and if the current government or coalition were prepared, truly ready to do so, this could happen quickly. And where are we today because we did not want these powers to be transferred?Oh, my God! Today, however, the current government is resorting to some other solutions, and we have gained something new between the first and second levels of local self-government. We have received the Main City Act, we have received the Development Assistance Act 2010-2015 and today, unfortunately, the Minister responsible for this area has gone to the development council meeting for the Belokranj region. Do you not think that tomorrow or tomorrow's demand for the development world of this kind will also be in the Slovenian and Halo region and perhaps in the North Sea area and so on and so forth? There is a clear question here that something needs to be done. And there's no running away from the fundamental truth that we're missing another level of local self-government. We should be aware of this, not that we convince people that we cannot reconcile ourselves about the number of provinces, the name of the provinces, we do not give jurisdiction, from Ljubljana, because we know, at least those who come from remote parts of Slovenia, what it means. And I really appeal, imagine, each one in his own way, because Slovenia needs provinces! The provinces do not need a Member and Members, citizens and citizens need provinces! And that's the point of the problem when we talk about landscapes. I wish and hope that at least in this term we can come up with a solution. But more and more from day to day, I worry that instead of getting close to that goal, we are drifting away.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u91	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u92	Hello, everybody! Today, we are considering a very extensive law, in which, as has already been said today, very much work has to be done, and a law that has in some way prepared and designed the provinces. I myself have been very active in the previous term, because as mayor I have been monitoring the work done by Mr Žagar and I know very well what the problems were, how many circles the Government together and also the Minister himself, and everyone to the President of the Government, have done eventually some skeleton, skeletons that would represent the provinces in the full sense of the word. It is said that regional development, environment and space, transport, economies, agriculture, higher education, education and sport, health, culture, protection against natural and other disasters, internal affairs and social policy. This is in a way some colossus of these tasks, which would be very good if they took place in Slovenia at this second level of local self-government. I am firmly convinced that the Slovenian local government has already achieved a degree of organisation at the level of such organisation as today, because it needs larger entities, which would also carry out important tasks in these segments. I also know the contradictions that took place within the ministries, within the fact that those people who were still doing those jobs at the time had to be proposed in some way to move to a different level, which means that they had virtually shut down their jobs, and so there was also a great resistance to these activities. Unfortunately, the fate of this law continues to be known, for from the point of view of the government and also in the direction of the coalition we see that such a concept is not supported. However, I am afraid that this should be done and that there is some realization that we will decide whether or not to continue the concept of regionalisation in Slovenia as soon as possible. Given that we see how much work and how many tasks were needed for these laws, I fear that the Government, in this mandate, after almost a year and a half, has already practically not taken any steps, already lost its pace in order to prepare such large and wide-ranging laws, to bring them into line politically, to align with the provinces. That's why I think it would also be an honest word from the government, whether it's meant to be. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or does not intend to continue the regionalisation project. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u93	Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Vinko Gorenak. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Tinker Bell. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. With regard to the powers and tasks of the provinces in the field of agriculture and rural development. There is so much talk about the development of agriculture, but we know that agriculture is living today, that conditions are becoming increasingly poor, that complementary activities are necessary on farms. A number of projects have already been made, but each congregation has done its own work. At the province level, it would probably be much easier because Slovenia is so diverse, we have so divided areas and each province could do its own programmes to preserve the cultural landscape that we have now. With these problems in the countryside, we are getting a lot of attention when everyone wants the agricultural land to be built and sold as best possible. Few want to preserve the agricultural land because it is no longer viable. We try different programs, different projects, and we always run into deaf ears from the country. However, the municipalities do not have these resources or personnel to set up a programme on their own. In Dolenjska and in the White Region, we have embarked on a programme of tourism in the walls, as some emergency programme, with which the President of the country now boasts that it is a new product, a new challenge, a new market niche in the offer of tourism. However, it is difficult to start because all tourism projects are long-term projects that do not produce results in a short period of time. The same is true of agricultural production. Sparrows are already chirping that small farms can survive only by producing their crops and selling them as products in one way or another. However, the wider community needs to organize or assist the marketing organization, and the municipalities are too small, too poorly organized to organise it so that agriculture can still live in the countryside. The other is the economic centres. We have nine economic centres in Slovenia. The Minister of Transport stressed how logistics is the logistics platform of South-Eastern Europe, which is supposed to be Slovenia with geographical location, with infrastructure. He also promised a logistics programme at the end of last year, and none of it. If certain projects are to be implemented, they cannot be projects of individual municipalities. If we have nine economic centres, then no logistics centre or economic centre comes to any province. This would make it easier to organize these activities in the provinces, including economic zones. We know that every congregation wants to have as many economic zones as possible. Some congregations have also invested a great deal of money to equip these zones in a communal way. Now they offer practically free communally equipped zones. Was it economical to invest 20, 30 euros per square metre for an economic zone that now stands empty and does not have investors? It was the congregation’s desire, the money was invested, and the economy, which would then build, created new jobs. I think that in the area of landscapes we would be much easier to organise and agree on where the potential is and where something needs to be built to live and give some added value to the economy to develop. There's a lot of this, and I think it's time for the municipalities to come to such a developmental level that, as the Government says, the congregations should be joined together. No, we need a second level of local self-government to upgrade what we have already built to the level of small municipalities in certain areas. On the other hand, many things need to be built, where the smallest congregations need to do what they can. It's a plumbing. It's a sewer. We promised Europe what we would build, and in fact we have many villages and villages in the countryside that do not have healthy drinking water, but no one is worried about it. It is important that things are centralised, that everything unites in Ljubljana. Attempts on the fifth public tender, how long have we been waiting for him? The Minister issued a public call or it came to this in January, but immediately in February, for the first application on 26 February, the answer to the municipalities was that it was not possible to apply because the Ministry had not reviewed the plans for the implementation programmes of the municipalities and could not issue conclusions for individual projects of the municipalities. As far as the damage is concerned, nobody cares. How much money is involved in these projects? How do we get to 30? 9th report submitted, carried out these projects that we have planned this year? Nobody cares. It is probably better that these projects stay or that money stays in the country without these projects being implemented. I think there's damage, there's damage, and there's much damage to the landscape, and there's a lot to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u95	Does the representative of the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Does he want the proposer again? Mr. Lah? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss it further on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. All applications are available for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. The proposal to transfer the tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces is prepared, like ministries, for example, whether by areas known to us: tourism, regional development and so on. This suggests that we have been very serious here, too, about what will be the tasks of the provinces and what we can transfer from the area governed by the state to the provinces. In another period, however, perhaps what assignments could be delegated from the congregations to the provincial level. In fact, in the previous mandate, ministries had to prepare a review of the tasks they perform and which of these tasks would be more logical to actually regulate or decide on them at the country level. Thus, the tasks of the original jurisdiction of the provinces were defined in the area of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, the colleague already mentioned something in the agricultural field, and spatial planning, which we know is not the best now because it is too fragmented, the law on the regulation of space would in this case be changed into a housing law, the law on environmental protection, the law on the promotion of tourism and so on. All those older ones whom we thought the provinces could be more sovereign in these decisions, even more, not only competent, but also, in fact, better decisions than can be made from a centre. The municipalities themselves are faced with the problem or know that in some areas their area of a small municipality of 3,000, 5,000, or more people, if regulated for a wider area, these decisions could be better. Therefore, I think that the law is prepared very well and in fact the areas where we had the most problems, for example, a road which is partly in one congregation and continues in another - every mayor dealing with this, has made a deal with the transport ministry, but only for his part, because he was no longer interested in the neighbouring congregation. Therefore, it seems important to me that this work is transferred to the provinces and that we will finally discuss the whole road, for example, all so many miles away, not that each mayor will take care of his own work alone, but that the rest is already a matter of the congregation next door. This would also make connections slightly different, and it is likely that all of them would be less likely to be confined to some of the congregation’s boundaries and would be able to look beyond their fences and in areas where it is possible to cooperate better. That's how I'm gonna support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u97	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you. I think I owe you some answers. I don't have to look for any things to be against this law, because I've been against this law, specifically, or against all the laws. I have once voted on this law specifically, which still has the same amounts in tolars as it had at the time. But as for behavior or misbehavior, my respectable colleague, we can say this because we probably read this whole "stupid" thing. There must be a lot of people in this room who don't know what we're talking about, let alone other people. I think I know the matter very well or more than well. As far as regional development agencies are concerned, you may have heard too much, because I know it's difficult to concentrate, and I know that they will be included in the provincial administration. But I said that there are many of them already and that there will be private companies, which cannot be assumed to simply come to the provincial administrations, as stated in this law. This means that private regional development institutions will look for their business opportunities on the market. And he's holding what I said that we're going to have a repeat. As far as education is concerned. Yes, of course, it is right for the state to look and tell us where it will be, but that is why it is not necessary for me to hire 782 new bureaucrats at the regional level. What's the point? They'll give me the authority to decide about education, secondary and higher education, so that the state will finally tell me again, and you can't or you can't. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. Let the state say so. As far as the sea school is concerned. If the Velenje company can take care of the entire aquarium in Luka Koper, I don't know why we shouldn't have such a school in Trbovje. That's what's happening today. The Velenje company takes care of the Luka Koper Aquarium. Then we can have a school in the Rippers. But as for other content that I haven't told you, I'll be happy to. Let's say how well this law transpires, that the province will provide funds for the implementation of health programmes and for the provision of measures to strengthen public health. Is the province going to provide? Where, in what way? Not because I, once again, appreciate the efforts of all those who prepared this legislation at that time. The original sin was, I said: because there is no constitutional category of the number of provinces this package has fallen. That's why. And the same will happen to the new law, if you work hard, with all due respect for your efforts. He's gonna fall. The same debate, as today, will prove that there is no right approach, one will be for a two-tier system, the other will be for a single system, and everyone will find one hole that we can fall into. We are not mature, let us all acknowledge that we are not yet mature, that we do not have the conditions to establish the landscapes with the content we imagine and want. We didn't, and we're not gonna do it. If this prepared package, which was prepared in those days with no idea how many thousands of pages, did not go through, if it fell, know that your package will fall just the same, it will fall even more, because in the end, despite the fact that it is a really professional one that is supposed to decide a lot of things, politics will decide. And for free, he says that we work for people, that people want landscapes. No, people want development where they live. And people want a job and people want a normal life. But they can get this with or without landscapes. But it is true that it is wrong that - but this landscape would not be solved - special laws here are adopted as one big city, for many other smaller cities, which are more impoverished and need help, but nothing. This really isn't right. But this pile of papers, five, seven bills won't solve it, and let's face it. I will be against all these attempts of regionalisation now and perhaps in six months when new ones will come, because, I stress, this is an unfinished story, this is an 'impossible mission' until conditions are given and they will not be at least by 2013 or 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u99	Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellows! If I am a little sarcastic, I am optimistic in the introduction that something with this provincial legislation will be, because we see the active participation of coalition Members who have participated in this debate in its entirety. However, given that I have been on time at the previous point when we discussed the proposal for a law on landscapes, although we are now at the Law on the Competence of the Provinces, I have returned to a little more general discussion because I feel the need to say some things that seem important to me. Certainly, someone does not want the regionalisation of Slovenia to take place. Just before the referendum, it was provoked, as a man would say, by one controversial question, that is the number of landscapes. And I think they've done a lot with the "divine et impera" system and then, of course, they can rule. Although we have heard in the debate today that this is the least problem we can solve. 3 or 4 or 5, 10, 14 provinces, this is not the reason that the preparation of this legislation is stuck. It's something else. It is still about the fact that one part of Ljubljana's shit obviously wants to keep this centralisation of Slovenia, because it lives very well on this account. They forget and very few care about the rest of Slovenia. And that is that one cannot just walk through, at least we who are not from Ljubljana. On this occasion, however, I would also mention the problems and questions that keep us from the outskirts of Slovenia. If we look around Europe a little bit; the number of provinces is a problem. How? Take only the Swiss Confederation with 26 cantons, where some cantons have only 40,000 inhabitants. And the biggest canton of Zurich, which has over a million inhabitants, is fine. Because they know how to handle these things. There are more parishes in Croatia. For example, Međimurje is an even smaller county, such as Prekmurje and even has fewer inhabitants, and it also exists as a county and the matter works. We viewed Prekmurje as a province that is urgently needed, or Prekmurje or Pomurje, to be taken as an independent province, because if we do not take into account the natural and historical details of regionalisation, it is said that directly in determining the number of regions, we will not do any useful rational thing in dividing or zoning. If I focus again on my region, which I know historically. Even the Catholic Church found that this was one concluded geographical, historically specific unit, and it also established a diocese. Even during the occupation of World War II, Prekmurje, together with the work of Medjimur in Croatia, was an autonomous closed unit. The specialities of this region of mine are certainly very evident and very specific to Slovenia. It is said that there is no way to attach, in any way, a large region of the Pomeranian region, for example, to the northeast or to what region it should be called, because the indicators will remain the same. We'll hang out at home again. If we do not take into account all these historical, naturalities for certain regions, such as Koroška, Styria, Primorska, then we will not do anything about this regionalisation. I could also count cases across Europe. For example, Finland, how they handled these things. And I would certainly convince you if you would take a reasonable approach to solving this problem. Like I said at the beginning, sarcastically, I'm optimist. I think everything but optimism. Please coalition parties, seriously face this issue, otherwise the problem will be even bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Monday, 8 March 2010, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is the first defensive proposal for a law on the financing of landscaping within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members, with their first signature, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents, Mr Zvonk Černač, to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u102	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Land Financing Act is kind of the backbone of the entire provincial legislation, it is the basis on which the performance of the provinces can be assessed and which is a "conditiio sine qua non" for the successful implementation of the entire provincial project. It should be pointed out that the provincial model, which was justified by the Social Democrats, which were responsible for the province in 2003 under the LDS Government, has not changed. To the number of provinces advocated by the Social Democrats at the time, the project of regionalisation was continued by the former Janša government. In the previous mandate, the Social Democrats supported this project until it was decided, but when a decision had to be taken in the National Assembly, they rejected its support. However, the inadequacy they show in this project has significant financial and substantive implications for the local environment. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that Slovenia would develop faster, that European funds would benefit more effectively if it were not for the rejection of support and the expression of this inadequacy in provincial legislation. The Slovenian Democratic Party therefore offers the government a hand and assistance in this project. The draft law deals with issues related to the financing of the provinces. It should be stressed that the law is designed so that the whole operation is neutral. The regionalisation project does not foresee an increase in budgetary resources but is redistributed in such a way that decision-making is transferred from the state to the provincial level. It is generally known that the same projects carried out by local communities are carried out more cost-effectively and efficiently compared to those carried out by national authorities and that less funding is spent on the same project if implemented by local authorities. That I'm not even talking about the speed of implementation of individual projects. In this recent period, however, something new is emerging within the mandate of the Pahors Government. Those who are supposed to decide in state bureaucrats to speed up projects are acting in an insurmountable, bureaucratic, supervisory manner, not to say police. At the provincial level, funds of €421 million 995 thousand 144 are being transferred from the state level. The provinces will perform tasks more easily and more quickly than they are now at the state level. As an example. For example, if the so-called 5th call were to be decided at the provincial level, then 203 million euro of funds, which were not signed last year, would not only be tendered but already embedded in specific projects, thus allowing opportunities for kindergartens, infrastructure, etc. The sources of financing for the landscapes include income from corporate income tax, income and excise duties and other resources such as public service payments, income from property, additional European Union funds and debt opportunities. In particular, funding is provided for tasks transferred to the provinces. This is a matter of individual tasks under national jurisdiction, which the State is transferring by law to the administration of the provinces. The financing of tasks under the original jurisdiction of the provinces, which are defined by law as local matters of wider importance and the tasks of regional importance laid down by the law, is based on the determination of the appropriate scope of funds to finance these tasks per capita in the country and on the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the individual province. An important work was carried out within the mandate of the Janša government. On the table is the whole legislation with all the calculations and analyses open to comments and additions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are prepared to examine thoroughly all your comments in this regard in other laws, but after you have reconciled yourself in the coalition on the issues that keep you on the run, and on the basic conceptual issue that is by your number of provinces. If this argument had any serious weight, then all small countries would be unsuccessful and ineffective, and we see that this is not the case. For our size, it is not a basic conceptual question. For us, the basic issue of efficiency is, first and foremost, conditional on the circularity of a particular area, the belongings felt in this environment by the people in this area and the extent to which tasks and resources are transferred to the provincial level, which will allow for decentralised implementation of all that currently constitutes a development problem. Your Honor! According to your predictions, you're obviously not going to support this or any other law. I think you're going to add another one to the mosaic of untruths and deceptions that you've been able to afford as part of your invasion of power. If you do not support this legislation, then these statements of support for the regionalisation of Slovenia will also prove to be ordinary populism and demagogy. The Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, supports this concept of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs. Dussa Trbec Bucan, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u104	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The law is part of a package of provincial legislation that follows the concept of landscapes, which has been professionally rejected following the analysis of provincial laws. The formation of the region and its administrative and political position are directly linked to the issue of the tasks or competences of the region and financial and other material resources. The proposed regionalisation of 12 to 14 provinces is therefore a key reason for the professional rejection of this concept of landscapes. According to the Government, this would be a province with a relatively small area and a small number of inhabitants, which would also be very different from the province to the province. This would therefore be regions with limited development potential, a limited option for their own economic development, greater dependence on the central level and limited regional autonomy. As the law on the financing of landscapes as part of the proposed package of provincial laws stems from professionally unfounded regionalisation, it is a concept of landscapes which the Government does not support. At the time of its term of office, the Government decided to continue the process of establishing the provinces. Since a number of professional concerns were expressed in the future process of establishing the landscapes, it was necessary to carry out an expert analysis of the legislative proposals already tabled in the legislative process in 2007 and 2008. The key open issues of decentralisation and regionalisation of Slovenia have also been addressed by the Strategic Council for Decentralisation and Regionalisation, which was appointed by the President of the Government Act in April 2009, with a view to obtaining expertly reasoned proposals for the establishment of provinces in Slovenia, as their territorial, functional, material and organisational component in terms of the concept. The new concept of the establishment of landscapes provides for a gradual transfer of powers to the provinces, resulting in a different way of financing. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the continuation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u106	Honourable Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that regional differences and differences in development between Slovenian regions are increasing. We now measure this on the basis of 12 statistical regions. Despite the measures taken so far by all governments, despite the law on coherent regional development, despite efforts to improve the development of less developed regions by means of European funds and some more of these resources, all of these measures have not been taken. Regional disparities continue to increase. They are increasing mainly because more or less of the tasks and key competences are concentrated in Ljubljana, and in the country, local communities as well as some municipal communities have very few development powers and some problems and projects are too big for them. In particular, those key development projects are too large for them. The result is that they do not get caught and are not able to save them, but they are far from the country and do not save them. I can give you a few examples of that. One of the most pressing problems of the pond-cotch end is not located in the pond-cotch end, even there, but their transport disconnection is also very important, where the issue of the other is important. It is similar with Koroška, similar to White Krajina, which is similar to water supply in Pomurje. The municipalities are too small to solve this. Other development projects can't be tackled either, because the matter is far from Ljubljana and is too large for each local community. Dearly respected, in the service of the Government and in the coalition, if you want to seriously tackle the growing developmental differences between Slovenian regions, it is necessary to establish provinces, but not such that we will have three provinces and three new centres and that Pomurje will still be a sub-region of a large province that will care more or less for its centre. And we don't need neither for Posavia, for example, one center in New Town, because this will not make Posavia any better, and probably Koroška will not develop better if there is a sub-region of Celje, Maribor, Ljubljana or Goranje, or I don't know which one already, yours, great regions. So, respectable when you talk about what is the right and fair size and size of each region, it is necessary to take into account the specific and situation in Slovenia and compare it with other countries, which is probably only partially correct and effective. I'm asking you, how do you see some developmental breakthrough in Pomurje if you're going to push it into the Styrian province? I don't know. Murska Sobota will have a new boss who will not be in Ljubljana in Maribor. But it almost doesn't matter to them because it's going to be very difficult for him to understand the problems of Pomur. It's probably very similar across the country, and that's what you've probably missed with your regionalisation plans. Secondly, what I want to say is that you are devoting yourself to the introduction of the provinces in Slovenia, but not really. Because I cannot understand that this project has so stalled that you have proposed numbers that are probably unacceptable or very conditional even within the coalition. I don't know how you're going to convince Irma Pavlinič Krebs that there will be no province of Koroška. I don't know if she'll have to walk through all the statements she's made so far. And how, for example, Minister Gjerkes will agree to regionalisation of Slovenia without Pmurje or Prekmurje as a separate province. The concept proposed by the opposition, which has matured in the mandate of the previous government, is, according to our assessment, the optimal concept, also politically acceptable, and foresees such provinces, which follow the current conditions that are rounded wholes, more or less, or optimally, as far as it is possible to do so, perhaps not in all cases fortunately, can also be corrected. I have a lot of reservations for myself, for example, to the Zasavsko-Kamnik and similar solutions. However, the project is allocated to the extent that it is worthy of treatment, finishing, processing and, at the end of the adoption, possibly in a slightly modified form. As has already been said, this regionalisation project is at the heart of the Regionalisation Act. For he foresees what apparently many have not read here, according to today’s discussion. It foresees that the state budget will be provided with certain resources to carry out the tasks at the state level. These tasks amount to about €400 million, almost €500 million, and these tasks go to the area with money and with people. Which means that if this project were to be undertaken by an operationally capable government or even an operational government, it could, of course, probably be carried out by a certain resistance of the state's official office. As the former Minister of Economy myself, I have received many readings within my department, czech, "what would we tolerate, and this part, which we do best here, in Ljubljana" and so on. There is a lot of this resistance, and that's why this project in this partially operationally capable government is going to stand and stand and probably wait for some future time. It is envisaged that a significant part of the tasks that fall under the content are said to be regulated at some regional level. And that part of the budget currently allocated to finance these tasks at the state level is transferred to the regional level. And more. Some new financial resources, very important financial resources, are also offered to the provinces. One of these is to transfer the Fund of Agricultural Lands, Property or Real Estate of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to a regional level, so that this would also be an important source of funding for the tasks of regional competence. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to make a developmental change, if we want to reduce these differences in Slovenia, if we are to finally relieve Ljubljana of the pressure from actually the whole of Slovenia, then at least partially listen to this concept. All distribution at local level is not just a professional project. It could also be a professional project. This is not just an expert project, it is also a political project. The division of each country to levels is also a political project and it is therefore necessary to respect and respect the political reality, the political picture and, last but not least, the political will of this Parliament. Raping people, MEPs with solutions that have questionable support, is doomed in advance for failure and you have done so and you want to do so. It is very important, probably you have not even read this, that in financing the tasks of the original jurisdiction of the provinces in addition to the number of inhabitants, numbers, that is to say older, younger, surfaces and roads, and then also the area of the provinces and the length of the province's roads, also take account of the development index of the province. Therefore, the proportion of resources should also be administered according to this index. This index, however, consists of economic indicators, indicators of developmental hazard and development opportunities. This index also takes into account some potential and development situation in the province and allocates more and more to regions with a poorer index. This means that even through this mode of funding, a greater level of funding is being achieved for those who also need faster development progress. Your Honor! Obviously we will lose one important opportunity, this is the opportunity that European funds offer us. The European funds, in particular the Structural Funds, are intended for exactly what Slovenia needs today. It also needs to reduce differences in development between regions. And if not, and obviously not, there will be the establishment of landscapes even at a time when we have the right to use these resources, we have actually missed half of the potential and half of the perspective that the landscapes bring to us. We missed a lot. Not because of the current opposition and the previous coalition, but because of the guilt of you who reject, respected by the coalition, all proposals in this direction. You've managed with your anti-propaganda to passiveize people so they can't see any further without seeing a step forward. Of course, you wanted to convince them that this was a wasteful, bureaucraticly flawed project. The facts are different. And instead of going this way, you're rejecting it again. The opposition has come to Parliament with this proposal in order to encourage you. And we do not share the illusion that you will now support this, because we know and see, even after your behavior, for example, today there is no one here from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, no one from DeSUS, he has no interest, no one from the Party of Zares. Four members of the Social Democrats are sitting. This is a project that is less important than Friday's beautiful day. And that's the problem. The attitude towards increasing developmental differences in Slovenia, not least the attitude towards those depressed, increasingly depressed parts of Slovenia that deal with developmental threats. Of course, in the opposition we have time and energy to propose measures, and you do not have time to listen to them, let alone to discuss them seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I hope he's a magician. Visak noticed that there was another more of the Social Democrats at the meeting. But always on such occasions it would be right to list everything, not just what suits whom. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Franz Bogovic will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u108	Good-bye! Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives and all Members, without exception, and everyone else present in this Chamber! Today we are talking about provincial legislation. The third law in this very important package, which we can talk about as a package of six laws, is a very important law on the financing of municipalities, which normally follows the concept of the previous mandate. And we can say calmly, not only within the Ministry of Mr Žagar or the Government of Janša, but it has been composed for a long time within the framework of the broader political consensus of all coalition and opposition parties, and unfortunately towards the end of the mandate, when it should actually come to the realization of this project, this support has suddenly collapsed and we have this result that today we are talking about laws that were, in a loving way, prepared a few years ago, about the laws that I, and also in the Slovenian People's Party, firmly believe that we should be adopted in the previous term, not because we were then in the power of a coalition in which the Slovenian People's Party was also a member of this coalition, but because the development needs and situation in the field of local self-government in Slovenia call for a second level of local self-government, and because we were then in the full term of 2004 to 2008, when Slovenia was practically a member of this coalition, because it was not a pre-employmentalty in the financial year of the Council, that we were also called for the reform. At that time, it was an ideal time for Slovenia to organise, at local regional level, new challenges that appeared and offered us the opportunity to participate in all these cohesion funds and to take a step forward in this work. In dealing with the previous law, we went in detail through the powers to which this law applied. We have seen that the experiment, or concept, when we talk about conceptual differences, the concept of the previous legislation has been such that a large proportion of powers at various ministries have been transferred to the regional level to be transferred at once, not after some gradual steps, because I fear that these gradual steps have always been condemned to some degree, but also to some interruption. It was therefore a serious and responsible task to seek out all these powers and, at the same time with these powers, also financial resources, including in the integration of European money, a billion two hundred to four hundred. This is a measure of resources that can also paralyse the landscapes qualitatively in their developmental opportunities. Today, the Secretary of State said that there were two conceptual differences. The first is that we are talking about the second number of these provinces, and the next conceptual difference is that the ideas of the current founders of this regional policy would be a gradual transfer of competence. I have very serious concerns about both conceptual differences. I firmly believe that in the previous period, many of these rounds were made in the previous mandate, together with the holders of political functions at national level, at local level, that the matter also took place at the referendum. As was said by then Minister Zhagar, it was also determined, if you want, also by the political reality, what can be done at that time. This political reality was based on a thorough discussion with people, with all those responsible in all areas, and saw where some of them are rounded up, including major projects and the development of Slovenia. The search for some new forms, ranging from three to six to eight, for no practical yet clear maps, and at the same time it is not found that there are such large connections that would give real development momentum. I think that this experiment, which has been beginning since the beginning of this number, is once again an attempt that is probably intended to determine at some point that there is no possibility that there is no political will as has already been said today and that this project will be stopped again. As for the conceptual difference in the transfer of powers, I cannot imagine how Slovenia would have shown up with a concept that was also explained to us by the groups of Members, which should have gone this way, that the first year would have been about 100 million euro of funds given to the level of the new regions. Of this, it's a quarter, a third of the funds for the operation of these regiments alone, a small proportion of these funds, sixty million for some roads and similar things. I am firmly convinced that these challenges, which have been presented in the programming orientations of the previous mandate in many areas, are enough to make it really necessary to do so. I am afraid that, as I have already said, we have missed the ideal time in 2006 to 2008, but we still see problems or delays in many areas today. And the first case, when it was already exposed here today, is regional development. We can see how he's getting involved with the current calls. From here on, if we move on to economics, economic centres - also some development instrument in individual regions, where strong preparations and quality projects would appear, we could peacefully allusion certain funds. It's a problem of space, space in connection with traffic. We see that no one is actually dealing with the placement of developmental axes today. Developmental axes, first of all as a road link, and at the same time the development vehicle, the flow, I think they are the basic driver. And when we face this today and see where the big developmental backlogs are and where they're increasing, we see just that -- areas that the highway cross has not reached today are at impact. And both the development axes and the planning of the development axes would be a classic task of the landscapes. Today we have a very big problem when practically municipalities cannot agree on each other, but from Ljubljana the provinces are so far away that no one will put similar projects in their dreams. I come from the Posavina area, where we put a major regional project in the past, this was a project for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, a project that has been put in place by all the municipalities, which has been followed by a never-recognizable provincial council that we have all year round. The project ran well - until when? - until the last few months, when it's found out something's wrong again. And an infrastructure project involving Slovenian knowledge, which could be operated by companies such as Strojegradnja, Litostrov and similar, is easily stopped. I am firmly convinced that such projects, which would have arisen in the context of some provincial mentality, are very large and would have allowed further development. This law and such a law on the financing of municipalities had this component, which has already been exposed today, to the recognition of some developmental backlog with regard to the allocations attributable to the provinces, and thus to real regional development in solidarity within the country. In these 16 months, as long as we're sitting in these benches, we've got two attempts. One was an experiment with the capital, the other was an experiment with Prekmur. Today we see that the government responds to the difficulties in the White Country. And I'm very afraid that such a "per partes" system will come into play and have a long-term approach. Once again, I support such a law. However, I think that the points that are on the agenda today are, unfortunately, once again condemned to the fact that no one wants to deal with them and, in the end, the province's legislation will probably not go through in this mandate. The price for these inactions, as well as for political opposition, which was a few years ago, will be very high for Slovenia and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u110	To all those who persist, good luck again in the afternoon. Unlike others, the law on the financing of the provinces is properly prepared. He's clear. It specified that the estimated value of the tasks under national jurisdiction on the provinces of billions and a half should be rounded up. It is clearly stated that the current tasks would cost EUR 970 million and would be financed by the income of the provinces from taxes and financial corrections. Investments and development programmes are expected to be worth 272 million and should be financed by the income of the provinces from corporate income tax and by the amount of 70 million from European funds or the state budget. Strictly, Articles 4, 5 and 6 also indicate sources of financing for the provinces: corporate income tax, 30% of income from income paid by the debtors, 90% of excise duties, 5% of excise duties on energy and electricity, and 10% of excise duty on tobacco products. Article 6 is also clear where there are other revenues, water refunds, services and so on. It's all good and it's all good. The law itself beautifully shows that the way to obtain funds is clear. A billion and a half euros are taken to the country for those tasks that the country would carry to the provinces. First time. I am sure that billions and five hundred thousand euros for all of this - of course, the costs that are themselves intended, that is, the costs of normal functioning - are not enough. Another time. How to accurately expose which ministry should give this money, which, if we do not have or cannot have now, not in the past, not now, very precisely defined tasks transferred from one ministry to another. Or else - if we assume that the Ministry of the Interior will remain the Ministry of the Interior and will not bring any tasks to the province, the story is clear. As long as the Ministry has the money, it'll keep it as long as it takes. But we have already seen in the transfer of orders that part of the tasks from this ministry, I have specifically talked about this ministry, are transferred to the provinces. I'm sure - I gave this case to the Ministry - that it would not agree if 80% of the funds were left to you, 20 of them would be taken away because you brought about 20% of the tasks to the provinces. But this is just one ministry that I think should remain under the original jurisdiction of the state. The same story will take place elsewhere and we will again where we started: the country and bureaucrats - not all, at least most - or people employed in the state administration of all ministries will not, but you can also speak, colleagues and colleagues, will not leave the ministerial work in Ljubljana, in a building where the ministry is established and left, for example, in Mursko Soboto. They won't! Now I bet I put my hand in the fire! They won't go and they'll stay there, and even if they don't have anything to do, you can't throw them on the road, but we'll hire new ones that will stand at any cost of more than 200 million euros without hiring new ones. It's a reality. That is why I would like to stress once again - I will, if we look at it - where we are going to talk about the envisaged 14 provinces. 13 It is very precise which congregations are, how many people, how many people are supposed to have the province’s saints and one, the largest one, are already excluded from the list itself because we are already adopting laws for its needs in the National Assembly. I agree that this is not right, but it will be even worse if it is, as it says, divided into 14 provinces. With all the effort: yes, the provinces will be when we know exactly how much power we will bear and which. If I summarize from a few years ago when we drafted this provincial legislation, the Minister - I must say again that they have worked hard - said that about 90% of the original powers will be transferred from the country to the region, to the province. 90% means 90% of the employees in the state administration, which, of course, is already admitted that the story will not turn out to be that we are not talking about infrastructure that will have to be set up for 90% of the seats to carry out work with new competences. The story is, no offense again, in the good will to do something, it's beautiful, beautifully written, but it's impossible. It is impossible to make this moment, it was impossible two years ago, three years ago - I do not know when we have already decided on it - and it will be particularly impossible in the future, whether the Government, this current government, so promises or strives to succeed in shaping the landscapes. If so, then I think that an absolute, immediate approach is needed, immediate, not partial, with a fully clear policy of complex legislation. If the stories begin to unfold so that we will first be part of the powers of some ministries and part of other powers, of course, there will be a large financial deficit and from here on out the story will end in three or four solved provinces and in the unresolved all others, and as a result there will be even greater differences. I say, a well-prepared law on the financing of the provinces, but in the same conviction as all other laws, this is impossible for us and we will distance ourselves from it as we will to all others.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Happy Friend has the word - he will not discuss it. Mr. Milan Chaddez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps Mr Petek should raise his hand again and invite some Member to the Chamber, but since there is something that we are proposing, we can also continue to discuss. I think that the developmental differences in Slovenia, which go to centralisation and to the concentration of all tasks and personnel right into our capital, are a major reason why we have tabled this proposal of the whole law. As I have heard in the last debate, this mission would be impossible, but I must point out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are such Members, who we know and also hope to bite on the mission impossible, because we are used to doing it. But we know what's going on in the last good year. Slovenia is rolling down and any hard work to face, I believe that this law of the province of Slovenia would probably be very difficult for the current government. I would like to point out that, by means of this law, we would transfer to the provinces of competence, along with financial resources and with personnel, which is essential. Here we see every morning what kinds of people they are when they go to work in Ljubljana. From six to nine, however, there is a stagnation in all the fits in Ljubljana and it is difficult to get to the city itself at a certain time, only because everything is happening in the center of Slovenia. And it is right to bite into this sour apple, decentralize, deconcentrate Slovenia and establish landscapes and powers to divide evenly and fairly throughout the territory of Slovenia, I believe and also know that hard and difficult work for the current government is certainly too difficult. I remember well when we had a meeting in Brdo on 13 May last year with the President of the Government and with the previous Minister, who very ambitiously announced the fifth call for regions that the matter would be over in the autumn months, but these promises of the Minister were too generous and probably too ambitious. That is probably why the minister also had to stop her ambitious work and the new minister arrived. I can say that, given that he is not here today, I can think of my own, and also of the unconvincing presentation of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The transfer of 4200 jobs with all financial resources, which are described very precisely in the document, appropriate consumption, corporate income tax, these are not fictional figures, there are very precise figures for which very, very much work is done and I believe that this work is too difficult, and also then the expenditure side, the assessment of the costs of the provinces is very accurate. I can say we're going to the ruling coalition, but you don't want to listen to our strong arguments. I will certainly support, as a whole set of proposals for provincial legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor - he will not debate. Mag. Franz Znidaršič - will not. The victory of the nobles will not be. Franz Puksich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues. On 10 December 2003, when there was another government, 2003 the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent information on activities related to the introduction of provinces in Slovenia and the regionalisation of administrative units with proposals for government decisions. In that government, the Social Democrats cooperated, not with the majority, but as they were then. Well, if, in my opinion, you're in a government, and if you agree with some positions at the time, then you're even in a position to be the first one to dictate the pace, it's hard to expect you to change your skirt, your face. In short, you're doing different things than you were doing at the time. Among them was the conclusion that Slovenia was divided into fourteen provinces and then it was also stated in this explanation that the proposals for the division of Slovenia into fourteen provinces should not ignore the fact that Slovenia is a very diverse country, making it difficult to form large gravity regions and so on. But we are not pressing you today, and we demand fourteen provinces from the opposition, but when this legislation was introduced, we just wanted you to make your work easier and behave differently as you did when you were in opposition. I recall the debate of the opposition at the time when you said that it was necessary to present the whole legislation and, under all legislation, to draw up legislation on the provinces meaningfully. You're saying something completely different today. Just as you started as soon as you took over power, change or intend to modify operational programmes, take them to the other five ministries, so now you're talking about a new concept. You know, you didn't introduce this concept. The financing law that we now have before us, the whole package of all six laws, is very exact. It is exactly what was already in the previous, from which ministries, whose tasks are transferred, the number of employees and money. Some say yes, but some won't want to go from White Ljubljana to the countryside. Actually, it's not a problem. It's a transition. There is also a soft version, some go to peace and so on. This is not how employment is increased, not in the city, but where it is needed. In the local community, we started with half the employee and one typewriter, which the employee brought home on its own, and today there are five employees in this local community for years and years. Things were gradually building up. But, see, at the time of the presentation of the legislation at the time, as well as the Law on the Financing of the Landscapes, you have had some considerable comments on this, if we, the Slovenian Democrats, will not support bad legislation, rather nothing than bad legislation. That was when the whole package was being treated. In order not to repeat what happened to the congregations — bad legislation, bad congregation. Look, you're closing the first half of your term today. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Yes, then, accept the law and terminate the congregations! Why don't you do it? Why are you complaining that the bars are the development of local communities? Accept the law, 10 000 people can be a congregation, or whatever! You've got it all in your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u115	Mr. Puksich, I'm sorry your time is up. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, you're sorry, I don't. Mr. Silven Majhenič - he won't discuss it. Mag. Stefan Tessel. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u116	Once again a nice greeting, Mr President, and all present. Financing is also an important element for the provinces, as when the provinces form, there must also be money to be made available to the provinces autonomously, not only with administration, but also for all the tasks assigned to the provinces. Here again is the question of the number of landscapes that encourage the issue. As I mentioned earlier, if people don't accept their lands, they won't come to life. And throughout many years of efforts to establish landscapes, it has proved to be acceptable for people to accept 12 to 14, and this is also what has some centers with institutions that already exist mostly, such as hospitals and theatres. We know that we have theatres financed by the State and theatres to be financed by the congregation. But if there are provinces, theatres can be evenly funded from the provinces. Also, hospitals, which are mostly in these projected provinces, are also likely to be subject to partial revision. Also, the law establishing the provinces provides that within one year certain municipalities may be defined differently and may go to a neighbouring province. The whole system is built with these six laws. As far as funding is concerned, it is intended to allow for more equitable development in all regions or in all regions of Slovenia, which we now miss very much, especially on the periphery. Several sub-regions or regions have been listed, which are sensitive [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] more developed than others. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The SDS is out of time, and neither is the Human Party. No one from the Slovenian National Party is present. Does the representative of the government want a word? No, no, no. Proposer? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. A picture of this hall today, both on the government side and on the side of the coalition MPs, somehow shows the situation in this country, which is devastating. Slovenia is somehow beheaded. There's no government. The four coalition MPs sat in their seats. I didn't first hear everyone else apologize, which means they're getting paid today because they're not here today. Some of us, who were missing from one vote because we went to the bathroom, got our salary ripped off, and then we discussed it all day. But the rule is clear. And that's how law works in this country. Catastrophe! What is the ruling coalition doing not only in this area with this country? What is the government doing with this country of Pahor? This is now no longer the Titanic, where the orchestra, nevertheless - not only has the rock penetrated the bottom, but that the ship is already sinking very heavily - the game. It is now actually an already proclaimed orchestra that obviously cares only for its own interests and the interests of its friends in this panic. And something similar is happening with this law, around which today, at the best of will, I have not heard any counter-arguments from the government side. I've heard that there have been some expert analyses that have shown that the government will prepare something better. When do I ask you? When everything is underwater, then you can prepare brilliant solutions - they will no longer help anyone. Today and here is the time to discuss solutions. Especially because Mr Gjerkesh, the new minister, has recently repeated this in the National Assembly repeatedly that he is an optimist. When we told him that the elections in the provincial councils this fall would be in conjunction with the elections to the congregations, that was unrealistic. He said, "No, no, no. This is unrealistic for you in the opposition. But I am optimistic, and I believe that this effort is still possible and that it is possible to adopt provincial legislation in the National Assembly in such a way that we will be elected this autumn to the provincial councils." Look, come on! I don't know if he'd be here today, but I'd ask him if he's still that optimistic, given what's going on. And then Mr. Minister goes to ask the opposition which model he agrees with: 3, 6, 8, 9, 12, 14. Doesn't say what it means. Is the number 4 Ljubljana, East, West, South, North? Is that regionalisation? Among you, ladies and gentlemen, you must first decide which concept is right for you, because you think it is conceptually important for regionalisation solutions, how many provinces in Slovenia will there be! This is not an essential question for us. The key questions are whether areas that will then act as provinces will be able to function; whether they will see their interests in these environments, which are also based on historical reasons; whether people in these provinces will feel cohesive and will be able to express their belongings in such a way that, through the transfer of powers that must take place, from the state level to the provincial level, along with human resources, they will also succeed a billion and 500 million Euros of resources that are expected to come from central decision-making, this most scrupulous bureaucratic decision that is being shaken every day, not every day softer, to a regional level. That's an important question. And I firmly believe that we will be in a situation if this project ever happens when the performance measure is not the largest or the smallest province. We will be able to witness the brilliant operation of the smallest province or vice versa. One that is small or one that is large, better or worse cannot be associated with this. As a result, this is not an argument and there are no reasons to or against it. When I say that you have to do this concept with yourself first, I also say that because when we get a clear proposal and a clear picture on the table, we will examine this issue and see whether this matter drinks water or not. This is because, first of all, you have to do with yourself, because since 2003, when the Social Democrats justified the concept of 12+1 and 2 respectively, this opinion has been strengthened until a decision should have been taken just before the previous national elections in this National Assembly. And where you have shown your inadequacy to the fullest extent; not only have you deceived the entire Slovenian public and deceived the entire Slovenian policy and those who have been speeding up this legislation all this time, who have done all the calculations that have done this garage work - some among them are still sitting there on the side of the ministry, which has been preparing these matters to a large extent - when all this happened, you said: no, but now'sorry', the policy is doing its job, the polls show certain stories and it is more important to us to get a few percent more votes than to justify some concept that is developmental for Slovenia is extremely important. Now, under your government, it only shows how important it is. Because if this decentralisation had taken place in the time of the previous government and started living these things and people in these areas would have made their own decisions about projects that you are now somehow unable to move forward and that you are blocking instead of accelerating them, of course, Slovenia would have developed faster because of this and your government would have done so now. The effects of this would be felt by all, including the government of Pahor! Because the general picture that is taking place in this Slovenia is a picture that falls on everything and would be much more beneficial for everyone. For this reason, I personally have to say that I do not understand this rather narrow view of this project. In view of what has been going on in the last period, I must say that I am not the most optimistic one to see this regionalisation project ever come to life. That's why I have to say that these words that you're stressing are "we're in principle for," that's better to forget and you'd rather bite your tongue before you throw them away because no one believes you anymore. These are empty words, you'd say, empty wastes that some people can spend on inns, in restaurants - they're granny mowers! In a policy in a responsible place where words need to be put behind and where a decision needs to be made at the time when it needs to be taken, it is not good to use such words, because sooner or later they return most to you. Although there is obviously no willingness by the Pahors Coalition to support this legislation moving forward, since these laws would not allow me to decide whether this scheme would be exactly the same, whether exactly one billion 400 and so many millions of Euros of funds would be transferred, or whether these resources, as they are now mentioned, would be transferred, but would open the way for this legislation to finally reach an appropriate solution through professional debate and through political debate, if necessary upgrades, would open up the possibility of finally reaching an appropriate solution in due course. As you refuse this path, however, we have witnessed some really interesting solutions for supporting individual areas in this country over the past six months. At the same time, when you were in trouble because of the social situation in Pomurje, which was conditioned by the bankruptcy of the largest textile factory, you put together a law on development aid to Pomurje, the only effect of which is currently one or some well-paid official posts based on this law, was adopted even earlier, at the same time you passed a law on aid to the richest region in this country. While Jankovic receives funds directly from the budget of 15 million euros without giving one word to justify why and for what purpose he will spend this money. He does not need to be told whether a monument in Stožice - where, as you can see, the victims are already carved into it, so that according to this spirit is also a disaster, or for any other specific purpose. He doesn't need to be justified. 15 million euros a year comes additional money due to a law that found that the most developed area in Slovenia is the least developed. Ten times more developed than Pomurje, they do not have this happiness in Pomurje so that they can directly draw EUR 15 million. According to my information, they haven't been able to absorb the euro, and even when they're able to draw the euro from this famous mega-law on development aid to Pomurje, which you've brought to him the weight of two hundred and eighty million euros, they're going to go - you won't believe - for such or other developmental studies that they can do - you know what. Above all, a well-designed logistics structure can be covered well, which is quite a few in this country. And this is a contribution to the development assistance of this country and a contribution to development assistance for those we really need. The second example is not long before the opposition on the support of the local environment has initiated some law on development assistance to one other part of the country, which is also in need - the lower-Belcan region. You turned him down, you turned him down! With the same reasoning, it could be said, a footnote: The government is preparing a better solution. The whole of Slovenia should receive similar laws and the solution is in what you have on the table today and what you refuse. A solution that is conceptual, which regulates the issue ahead and which prevents such partial solutions and approaches, which are a waste of huge tax assets and do not have any concrete positive impact on the development of individual areas. None! Because the tens of millions of euros that you will be sending to this area under the law on the supplementation of the Ljubljana Act will not solve any of Ljubljana's fundamental strategic issues, which must, of course, be resolved in the interests of the whole country - transport, mobility, environmental cleanliness and so on - in this city. There's gonna be a lot of money going on, but not for the right reasons. On the other hand, Pomurje, which would urgently need immediate action through spatial policy, through the provision of certain land, through the support of a project, which is even in the resolution on national development projects 2007-2023, the environment of Pomurje, the economic centre, where concrete solutions need to be affected, and no activities. And look, interestingly, when it is said how to promote local development, how to ensure that Slovenia can develop more evenly, and that all areas will have approximately the same infrastructure opportunities for development, the government, on the same day as it addressed the exit strategy so-called, also addressed the proposal to draw five of the nine economic centres in the least developed environments. Five out of nine; Pomurje, inner and so on. There, however, it is proposed to delete what could be a developmental impulse. Thirteen out of thirty-five projects that have been raised to the state level, which means that they have a special weight and thus an opportunity for faster implementation and faster use of European funds. On the other hand, it is proposed to delete the so-called development axis. For the last time, the Prime Minister denied this in response to the question he sent to the National Assembly, but only in part. He said, "Yes, we've discussed this, we haven't decided yet." We do not know if it has been discussed and if the proposal is given that we have two ministries to look after regional policy and regional development alongside Mr Gaspari, and given the experience we have had in recent months, I am almost firmly convinced that these development axes will be removed from this resolution. This means 3, 3a, 4, which means significantly worse opportunities for infrastructure interconnection of individual least developed areas of this country, which is one of the basic preconditions for faster development. On the other hand, there are no problems when it is necessary to support and extend opportunities for the development of state bureaucracy. There are unlimited possibilities here. New offices, new agencies, new parastatal institutions are being set up, which will only be through the need for new facilities for their operations, spending an extremely large amount of tax money without having one concrete effect that could be derived from this. All of this is unnecessary, because we have enough of this structure, it should only be properly allocated, trained and finally commanded that it must deal with the content and not the formalities, and that the content of this country can bring it from this vicious circle in which we have now landed. And if this story goes this way, as we now see it, you know that we will also briefly consider the establishment of an agency that is supposed to own state property in which dozens of new employees are supposed to be. I am firmly convinced that there is obviously another building somewhere else that someone can't rent and this agency will also need adequate facilities to be able to properly team up and fold around desks, ficussions and everything else that belongs to it. Strongly convinced that two to five million euros will be insufficient at the start for these things to happen. If we do not mention all those other stories that do not have any effective management of any kind, and which say that the current priority of this government is increasing centralisation and assistance to those who do not need it. One major problem that we have witnessed not only in this government's mandate now, but we have already witnessed it, has been the problem of simplifying procedures for access to funds that are of developmental importance, I am talking mainly about European funds. And if, in the previous period, some softening has begun in this area and if rules have begun to be built that have allowed gradual ease of access to it, if ways have been sought to simplify what a wider Brussels office requires, we are now in a situation where a completely reversed story is happening to us. Things are getting more and more complicated, they are getting more and more bureaucratic, and if I mention this case again, which is not the most important case, but it is somehow a symbol of what is happening, this so-called fifth call, which should have been issued in 2009 and the funds for it already largely exhausted in this year, at the rate of EUR 203 million of European money, which occurred after the long tribulations, after great convincing efforts, including the opposition, that something should happen this year at the end of January, we have recently witnessed the Ministry informing all potential applicants, the municipalities, at the first hand that expired on 26 February, not to report projects, because something is not yet done, some programmes are not confirmed and it is irrelevant that you are reporting because we are not even considering any one. But you know what that means, ladies and gentlemen? I don't know if you understand what it means - in municipalities, individual local communities are able to come from the beginning to the end of the project within six months. On the other hand, you expect that when you confirm, I don't know, the distribution of funds under one article, I think it's 23. A law on the financing of municipalities, sometime in June or July, to carry out even a bureaucratic procedure with calls and execution within three months. What does what you do mean? Which, I'm sure, wouldn't have happened at the provincial level. Why wouldn't it happen? Because those officials would be closer to people. Those of you who are in this Hall of Mayors and here you have quite a few things, you know what happens and how people come to "knock on you" if anything is wrong, on the street, in the office, in the sleeve, anywhere. You're there, with people, every day they see you. You can't avoid them. And you know very well that three quarters of you are asked about things you have no control over because they are state jurisdiction. But people don't understand it, they don't know that this road is state-owned, and this is municipal, and that there is an official in Ljubljana who interprets some rules of the game in his own way, and that something can't be done, which makes sense to every farmer, and that's why on some road that's state-owned, something can't be done, but on the municipality it can be done. How is that possible? And that's how things work, even better. If these things were to be moved to the provincial level, those who decide would be closer to people, easier to access and not the devil not to make decisions, turn around, and act faster. I'm sure you would. I'm pretty sure of that. What would be the greatest benefit? Who would benefit the most from this? People do. Those things that are meant for them. This money is not for officials where you sit by the ministries. You're sitting on this like it's yours. If the point or the comma isn't right there, it's gonna be the whole revolution because of it! But this money is meant for people to make their lives easier! On the one hand, these funds are supposed to build municipal infrastructure, and on the other hand they are expected to build wider social infrastructure. Who, though, is in the interest of being called citizens at some optimum time, if not those living in this country?Oh, my God! And that's how you should look at these things. I firmly believe that if we looked at this concept of the provincial legislation that we have on the table today and looked through this prism and if we were to limit ourselves beyond these narrow frameworks, then I am firmly convinced that this legislation would experience this support. All the options are for what I have already said several times that I would also be perfected, upgraded and that through this transfer from the state to this medium level the efficiency of the resources available would also be increased, and I must also say the effectiveness of the people working with these means. I'm pretty sure of that. As I said before, I think that the same person, the same expert who is now working somewhere in a state service, would say away from the eyes, away from the heart, behind some closed doors, works quite differently than someone who works with people on the street every day who can see him, who can ask him why you did this. You see, this roof isn't made right here, but this road is poorly paved. Why did she crash after two years? Much more effective and much more effective effects would be around this! In conclusion, I would like to illustrate the case, to take advantage of this opportunity, although I do not like to have someone tell me that I am rooting for my own environment, from which I come, but I am only a Member, I am a servant of all the people, but I am first of all a Postojnac. That's where I come from, and the things that happen there are the ones that annoy me the most. There is a project in this area called Decommissioning and Cleaning of Wastewater in the Basin Area of Upper and Central Ljubljana - Pure Ljubljanica. Eight municipalities are involved in this project. It is one of the cohesion projects, which is also in line with what Slovenia is supposed to pursue - a clean environment. The clean environment means doing well with waste, it is said to have modern centres, that there are as few black landfills as possible, as few "pigs" and clean drinking water. This is undeniably the advantage of Slovenia. And if we're gonna have pure drinking water, there's gotta be clean coverage. To have clean coverage, modern cleaning appliances must be made. And one of these things in this project are also these cleaning machines. For a long time, this project has been being created since 2007. He's already had all kinds. Finally, you threw it out of the 2010 and 2011 development programmes, and you left there somewhere one possibility in the law that if later found out, it could be subsequently incorporated. But what's the point of this? In this context, after long coordination for the project, the municipalities agreed, signed a contract, some were a little faster, and for a long time legal building permits were obtained. Of course, if they wanted to get them, they had to have this confirmed by the administrative services of the ministries that they were okay with these projects being good. And this was all confirmed and legal building permit exists, it is said that it could start with implementation. Well, and now it happens, recently, about a week ago, at the Ministry of Environment and Space, also SVR is connected to this project, that it was said, and now this project is no longer okay. One part of this project, retainers, water compressors that unload the cleaning plant, which is logical and normal, that this is an integral part of the project, cannot be judged within the framework of this project, and that cohesion "does not swallow" is not a reasonable cost. But he's been so far. One week ago, however, a legal permit was obtained, all the projects were drawn up, 100,000 euros spent on these projects. Who will be responsible for this now, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, for this project to not yet be implemented, secondly for the need to give another 50,000 euros to change things, and thirdly for the question that it will be a question of whether it will all come together, because the matter will be "under water" in a few years or so, because you will not be able to prepare documentation in order to make full use of this method of work. That's not right. And to ask the question of colleague Marian Križman, who asked the Minister of the Environment and Space on Monday, the Minister is pleased and answers what officials write to him and what he does not hold is also wrong. It's not okay! Minister, if you're ministers, you have to follow the area you're in charge of, otherwise you'd better not be ministers. Officials in ministerial seats do not need this country, there are too many. Nor does this country need a ministry to allocate funds to the municipalities. And you say that the congregations cannot agree among themselves that they cannot agree on what is good for them and in what way is good for them and what projects are good for them. Because this was said on the question why the call was stopped - because some projects were financed in previous projects that were not part of the regional development programmes, although the municipalities subsequently agreed that these projects had been confirmed in these programmes and that they all agreed that certain projects were financed. And then there's the ministry that says no, and you're wrong, and we don't think it's a regional project, which is why we're not going to fund it. All of this, look, ladies and gentlemen, would be wasted and all of this energy, which is now going to be empty, could be spent for the good, for the good of all, for the good of this country, for the good of taxpayers, in making it more rational and more done if it were the will to finally begin the process of adopting provincial legislation. Because there is a large part of these issues that we are talking about in the National Assembly and a lot of the energy that we are using about precisely these issues, which I think there is no need for ministers to deal with them. Ministers must defend a specific policy and follow up on the implementation of this policy. But everything else, as far as operating things are concerned, is a matter of different levels, and in this particular case this is a matter of provincial levels. Likewise, this law, which we consider third, on the financing of the provinces, is a law that has not been written in mind. It's the fruit of a long job, the former government. A lot of energy has been built into this law, it is the product of calculations that have shown what is acceptable and what is not and what it has, like all other provincial legislation, one purpose and one ambition alone, that is to enable the development of our country as quickly as possible in all areas. It is normal that it will never be the same everywhere, and it is normal that some environments will always develop faster. We can't do it anyway. Slovenia is not a ruin as far as that is concerned. We know. However, this impulse, which would have been given to move decision-making and resources to individual levels and thus bring them closer to people, would have enabled activities to take place significantly faster than they are today. On the other hand, we would unload a part of the state apparatus that deals with major structural issues that do not follow policies that need to be implemented and identified in that country. I think that, like all other legislation, this would be financially neutral, which means that we would not be further burdened by public finances in any part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The Minister for Local Self-Government is ready to answer questions. Do we agree? Dr. Henrik Gjerkesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Once again, I apologize for my absence, now I am back, and I hear that we are at the point of the Proposal for a Law on the Financing of the Provinces, if I am listening to the debate, it is purely a third thing. But for a little while, I really need to tell you how this situation came about. Actually, we're not creating this situation, we're saving it. The data have been set out by promises, certain guarantees have been given about the amount of co-financing that is not possible from cohesion funds at all, different interpretations have been given in 2007, 2008, and now we are looking for a solution, in whatever way, given that, as you say, the municipalities have already invested a lot in documentation, in obtaining permits and in creating these projects themselves, somehow allowing this project to somehow end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u123	Jojo Tanko, you've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u124	Look, I have to say today that I'm kind of disappointed in this obstruction of the coalition, the coalition parties that don't actually speak in this province's legislation. Those who had the best proposals in the previous mandate, the best solutions, the most behaviour on how to draw up provincial legislation, today, when we deal with it, they are not in session. Several times you are burdening us somehow by proposing solutions that are financially burdening the state budget and so on. This is not always true, but given that this is the general direction of the Government, the government coalition, this argument is, in fact, such that it has been going on virtually for a whole period of time in this mandate. This means that this is the only reason that both the Government and the coalition are against the solutions that we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, whether it is about development projects or whether it is about financing, or whether it is any other projects in this area. But the Priors are against it! And more or less, through all the explanations, the argument is always the same: The government will examine and propose a comprehensive solution. That's kind of the point of the big majority. Practically 99% of the explanations annexed by the Government in its opinions to the acts proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the National Assembly. Today, in this law, I expected the coalition, or minister, to say whether there was anything wrong with this proposal for funding, which is set out in Article 5. We have proposed that 30% of the province's income should be provided for the financing of the provinces. Then we suggested that the province belonged to 90% of the collected excise duty on alcohol and alcohol products. We have proposed that it be collected for the purpose of the operations of the provinces of 5% excise duty on energy and electricity and 10% excise duty on tobacco products within the province. In short, we have prepared some structure of resources, which also means in one part the own resources of the province's revenues. With this solution, we also provide a model of how to approach the implementation of the constitutional decision by which the Constitutional Court ordered the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a solution so that the provinces will also have their own revenue, their own source. None of the coalition MPs or the government has said whether this model, this structure is sustainable, is real. When we moved forward, I think in Article 14, that calculation of the appropriate consumption of the province, none of the participants said whether this model is good or not. I would expect a definition, because it is a financial law, that is to say, a key financial law for the province to define the government's representatives to the formula that we have proposed for calculating the appropriate consumption of the province. Nobody talks about it either, which is interesting. Then how to approach some cooperation, to draw up some common solutions if the coalition is not prepared to discuss even such exact matters as the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption of the province. Not even on such an exact matter as is stated in Article 14! I think it would be right that the coalition, the government are somehow trying to somehow on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u125	Mr. Tank, your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u126	15 seconds available [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u127	Time's up with five minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u128	Not yet. It'll be now. Thanks for interrupting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I conclude the debate on this item on the agenda. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on Monday, 8 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is first of all a proposal for a law on favours in lands, within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a representative of the bill's proponents, mag. Branku Grims for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u130	Your Honor! I am gathering a very nice greeting for all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The reason why we are facing this law today is clear from a constitutional and legal point of view: since the Slovenian Constitution adopts additions with a high degree of consensus, it is clear that the provinces must be established and that the country must transfer the individual tasks under national jurisdiction by law and provide them with the necessary resources. I firmly believe that as a Gorenjec I even hope to bet, believe that as a Gorenjec I have not lost any material bets yet, that on Monday, when everything is empty now that the empty chairs of the current ruling coalition are all full of Members and Members who will be quick to swear how unconditional and without any possibility of discussion must be heard blindly what the Constitutional Court says. However, the constitutional basis of what we are talking about today is not only some - even for the constitutional profession, but also in that case - an extremely controversial decision by the Constitutional Court, but the Constitution itself as the constitutional basis of this country. A constitution that binds everything and everyone. Unfortunately, the government has not submitted the relevant legislation even within the time limit it has set itself, which is why we have tried to do this to the best of our ability. The substantive reasons that led us to this are not only constitutional but much broader. It is a question of the uniform development of the whole country of Slovenia, the quality of life it brings, and the fact that many things that are very difficult to resolve at this time would be easy to regulate if the constitutional principle of the obligation to establish the provinces were respected. Since I come from Gorenjska, which is an indisputable province in any division, I should mention only two cases. If we had already established provinces and were therefore respected by the Constitution in this work, then it would certainly have been a long-standing issue of the disposal of waste in Gorenjska and would have paid it three to five times less than it would have been very likely now that we were hostages of the misunderstanding of individuals in central, state, and also of some mayors in Gorenjska - or mayoral candidates, one of them is also sitting in the National Assembly, but not now. On the other hand, it is a question of whether the central government would afford something like the GORKI project when Gorenjska was running out of funds. And in order to hide this, now suddenly in the midst of investments that are already being prepared, when the costs are already here, when there is a lot of planning and work already here, changed the rules of the game - only for Gorenjska, because much of it has already been financed, of course, so that it would not be obvious that it is working incoherently, to the detriment of Gorenjska. That is why we need the provinces, and that is why we are also proposing in the Regional Elections Act that the elections be held directly in order to be held in a manner proportionate to the current regulation of the State elections. This is said to be done on a case-by-case basis, when it comes either to minorities or to alternative elections, through the majority electoral system; otherwise, members of the provincial councils are elected in proportion to the lists. However, each province is divided into several constituencies in order to achieve the highest possible level of representation and thus a more equitable attitude towards all municipalities in each territory. At the same time, it also solves the issue of alternative elections, for if someone went from the municipal world to another incompatible function, a scale for one city would simply be moved. The law itself is certainly worthy of support. It also contains solutions that have already been coordinated to the fullest extent possible, practically among all the parties in Slovenia. But as much as there is a willingness or desire to talk about different solutions that might further ensure even coverage in the direct elections of each province, such as a pure two-way majority electoral system, we are willing to discuss this. It is only essential for us to respect the constitutional norm and to move the landscape project once again from a dead point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The draft law on elections in the provinces, which today will be discussed in general, contains all the ingredients that the law governing elections must have. However, this bill is the text of the same law as was dealt with in the package of provincial legislation in 2007/2008. The government also addressed this bill in a package of provincial laws. However, given that the bill is amended by the concept of electoral matter, I would like to point out some shortcomings. The bill only regulates elections to the provincial council - that is, it does not take into account the concept of direct elections of the president of the province. The bill provides that electoral units shall be necessarily formed for the conduct of the elections, as determined by the provincial council by a general act. The government considers that the way in which electoral units are formed and the way in which the electoral unit act is adopted are not appropriate. Given the importance of establishing electoral units in order to ensure equal representation of the population from the entire province, the Government considers that, in addition to the general principle of the formation of electoral units, that one member of the world is loved for approximately the same number of inhabitants, geographical roundness and common cultural and other characteristics of the electoral area should also be taken into account. In addition, the Government considers that the definition and subsequent modification of the electoral units by a general act, which requires only a simple majority of the votes of the provincial council, will lead to instability in the electoral system, as each election can be amended in an easy way. Nor does the draft law take into account the recent amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections of 2008, since it does not provide for or fails to provide for the composition of electoral, committees and similar relations between them, which is governed by the Law on Local Elections in accordance with the request of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The law also does not take into account the other important news arising from the Constitutional Court's decision to determine the outcome of the elections by post. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support further consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u134	Hello, all of you! We support the draft law on elections in the provinces of the Slovenian People's Party. I also see that the Minister, who dealt with this law, has done so in a qualitative way, is said to acknowledge to him to a large extent that the law is properly and correctly prepared, which is the difference between the other laws, because it is conceptually divergent. Here I see that they are not there, and I would be happy to see that, even with other laws, there is such an approach that in these benches, what is yet to be completed, the laws have also been supplemented through different readings of laws. We ourselves in the Slovenian People's Party have this dilemma, which has already been exposed here by the Minister, whether it is not possible for the president of the province to be elected directly. And these are all the things that we would be happy to share in the debates and make this law even better than it is. For once in the People's Party, we support this law. We hope that at least this one will receive support, even though I fear he will share the fate of other laws. Otherwise, we will once again support this law, and we will continue to cooperate to the extent that it is given to us to supplement it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. In fact, what has been said now by the Minister, and also earlier by his colleague Bogovic, is what we are about to do with a law that, of course, if this government has a purpose, could actually start this process. I think that the billiards of the three laws so far are at least for me, for colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, disputed because there are a lot of vague solutions. We believe that the proposal for a law on elections in the provinces could be the one that could make it possible to give a green light. Because, in fact, it has all the elements, the novelties that such a law needs to know that we have one day in the future or that we know that we will have a goal or purpose in the future or that the government will have a goal and purpose to shape the provinces. And it's one of the six laws we're considering today, or I don't know, in the future, maybe five or seven, which we already have. I think it is very correct because, through a review of all the elements also under new conditions, I speak of course of the membership of the European Union and of the people from the European Union who are constantly living here, who receive electoral rights, very precisely determines what the way of elections will be, sets the electoral threshold as we are used to in the national elections, also stipulates that the first elections are financed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and also sets the term of office, which is five years. I think that there is really nothing in this law that would in any way bind the content or address or form of subsequent acts, if, of course, this or any other Government intends to adopt them as regards regionalisation. In principle, if the rest of the colleagues, of course, would show this will, and the law on elections in the provinces, which we will later discuss, support and, of course, help at least in part, although I say we are typical opponents of regionalisation also because of certain requirements, but could still help with some initial steps to improve the situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Honourable ministers and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have already discussed the law on the provinces, on the transfer of tasks, on the jurisdiction of the provinces, on the financing, and now it is the turn of the bill on elections, and there are two others waiting. This means that we have taken the matter seriously and we are also fully addressing the problem of establishing the provinces. Let me start by saying that, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also support the draft law on elections to the provinces. The most important body in the province, we probably all agree, should be a provincial council with a five-year mandate and a direct election. The law regulates electoral law, an electoral system that is proportionate, electoral bodies, general, early and alternate elections, running, voting and electoral outcomes, and the protection of electoral law. The transitional and final provisions also specifically regulate the first elections to the provincial council. The bill is based on the principle of local self-government based on constitutional arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia and also on the principles of the European Charter for Local Self-Government. Some procedurally organisational and technical issues of local elections are similar in nature to national elections, so there is a combination in this law because the second degree of local self-government is somewhere between local self-government and between state authorities. It is said that the electoral system, as it is, is regulated analogously, depending on what the matter is. With regard to electoral rights in the pension council, we propose that citizens of other Member States of the European Union who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia also have them, which is also in accordance with European Union directives. In the provinces where Italian and Hungarian nationalities live, representatives of these communities are also loved in the provincial councils. The law also provides that electoral units may be formed for elections to the provincial council. Everyone can have their own idea about this, but it is difficult to find an ideal solution for different landscapes. However, a single methodology is in force so that one member of the Council would be loved for about the same number of people, and the constituency should cover the territory of one or more municipalities or parts of the municipality. Of course, this is described in more detail in the following law. Volyvec should also have the right to cast a preferential vote, as is the case with all other elections in the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore special rules are laid down when the reference vote is valid and takes precedence over pure proportionality. The electoral threshold, which is the same for all the provinces, is also prescribed, irrespective of the number of members of the provincial council and is defined as a percentage of the votes cast by the total number of votes cast and amounts to 4%, as proposed. Of course, the amendment can fix anything else. However, it is possible to run for the province's council in two ways, which we also know in the other elections, whether political parties in the constituency or groups of electors by signing, by not more than 3,000 signatures, on the basis of the signatures, we have foreseen that they would do so by 1% of the number of voters in the constituency, but by no means more than 3,000 signatures. Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also provides grounds for the legal determination of measures to promote equal opportunities where the law provides for the representation of each sex of at least 40% depending on which salt is less represented. The law also speaks of the constitutional organisation and the conduct of elections. The law also describes what it is like in other countries of the European Union, which proves that this law is not something to be avoided and that elections in our sacred regions or otherwise would not be called a unique one. Examples are in some countries of the European Union which have had this regime for a long time and also have a second degree of local self-government. Let me mention once again that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we undermine this proposal for law, but of course we also expect that, in the course of the procedure below, we can also change anything with amendments, because to be fair, few laws have been adopted in the National Assembly without any addition and correction adopted as a basic proposal. We therefore expect that this proposal will be supported and that we will be able to adopt it in such a way that it is also best for our second stage of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr. Lucky Friend. He won't discuss it. Bell Lach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the proposed law is very good, so I am joining Mr Barovic in order to adopt it and we have at least one law under the roof that would come when the provincial legislation is adopted. This law ensures the equal representation of the entire area of the provinces, also ensures the representation of the other sex, provides for the possibility of candidateing special papers in elections, where there is a special opportunity for economic lists to be represented in the provincial world. It is simply one of the laws that have already been, as the speaker has already said, and is not our unique, but is copied or modified by the laws of other European countries, which have a long tradition of local self-government. And I think that there is nothing to dispute with this law and it would be good to adopt at least one law, which has no effect on the number of provinces, has no effect on the transfer of powers and tasks to the provinces. It is a matter of regulation, although we still believe in the municipalities that the proportional system will have too much influence at the local level, but with individual lists that will form, as is the case with more and more, the political representation in local elections will be lower. I myself will support this law and appeal to the position to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Györek. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Stefan Tessel. [[He won't discuss it.]] The victory of the noble deer. [[He won't discuss it.]] Sylven Tiny. [[He won't discuss it.]] Alenka Jeraj. [[She won't discuss it.]] Bogdan Barovich. [[No, he's already discussed it.]] Mr. Franz Bogovich. [[No, he's already discussed it.]] Mr. Rudolf Petan. [[Just now.]] Would you like a word from the government? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! We have found that there are no major differences and that, in addition to those shortcomings that could actually be amended, they could be harmonised with respect to this proposal for a law. However, as you yourself have pointed out, you have a comprehensive solution, and as such we must look at it. If we now take one law out of your comprehensive solution, where, as we have already said, the government has no conceptual consensus on the solution that is proposed. At the same time, we stress that we have examined your proposal, that we have also summed up good things and that we are, but we are not, but we are, but, as a matter of priority, talking about finding a common solution. I propose that we also do not adopt this bill and adopt an electoral law in a package of all the provincial legislation that we will reach in the discussions and negotiations on the future consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. He wants the word "proposer," mag. Branko Grimes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u144	I would remind you of an interesting scene that was yesterday, and we could all smile from the heart when an SD member of the SD debated vehemently and said, "Give us a coalition but also you from the opposition." And then I answered, and I said, "I'm asking you nicely for an explanation, and all the suggestions we've made have been rejected." At one of the sessions itself, you rejected 63 proposals to revive the Slovenian economy and the outcome of the crisis in its entirety. Even those who wouldn't stand for a single tolar. Yeah, well, how can we even help you? Even in this case, the law before us today can be continued. We have proposed these laws because the government has simply not proposed anything until the deadline itself. So there remains an unfulfilled constitutional principle and we are, of course, ready to talk about all the proposals we have tabled. However, I would like to point out that, of course, we are counting on a serious conversation. Not that there are arguments, some of them under the same password: We will reject everything even if the excuse for this dog comes from the tail. In fact, in this material provided by the Government, I don't know how many places more than once are reliably mentioned as an argument that the majority is too low, which is said to be not a two-thirds majority in the law, which then determines the formation of electoral units. Yes, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, but by what majority does the electoral units and constituencies change in the legislation that regulates this for the national elections!? Is there perhaps a two-thirds majority prescribed there? I'm helping you. It's not. The two-thirds majority is only under the basic law. So this model that we have used here is actually a picture of that model that has already been established in the legal order of the state of Slovenia when it comes to national elections and therefore the challenge is so much more transparent for this reason. Then honestly say so, but we will continue to reject from political prestige everything the opposition proposes, but then do not work for the public such a gesture as it was, let us help. Here is the best way to draft some proposal of the law, none of us claims to be ideal, because there is no ideal law at all, but let us confirm it as a starting point for further consideration, by amendments, with some negotiations, if necessary, to form together and have saved at least one part of this component, which is in the final stage of the one that is urgently needed to implement the constitutional principle of the introduction of landscapes. Because the Constitution binds us to the introduction of the provinces, that means that the provinces will be sooner or later, the question only, what powers, and how many will they be. And here we go back to the starting point of why we are facing this law today. Because she was once the largest government party, the SD, itself proposed so many provinces in Slovenia, you can see, the interview was, Mr. Borut Pahor gave an interview for newspapers at that press conference and took up for such a large number of provinces. When, in the previous term, the ruling coalition wanted to make a gesture of goodwill against the opposition at the time, in order to take their wishes into account, their proposals, because they also seemed reasonable, reasonable to us, but the record turned around and is now "inflamed" that this is too many landscapes. Of course, but that's the logic. We are all in favour of the fact that the number of provinces is as small as possible, but only everyone is in favour of keeping his landscape as he imagines it. I have little privilege like Gorenjec, because Gorenja, in whatever division she is, is surrounded by a whole, almost impossible to do or find one solution that Gorenje would not recognize the status of the province, because of geographical location, roundness, historical connections, all the reasons for this. Many other dilemmas are, of course, open. But with some artificial reduction in the number of landscapes, we will not be able to come up with solutions that are optimal, because the landscapes on the one hand must be strong, they must be counterweighted by the state authorities, so that they can also act decisively so that no such excesses, such as the Gorka project in Gorenjska, can occur, when all the money that should go for this project is spent elsewhere. Then the amendments are rejected, which would also reserve money for Gorenjska and even those mayors from the ruling coalition who are from Gorenjska and who would receive the largest share of this money, and then crocodiles of tears, when, how can it be that Gorenjska has fallen out, is also launching some action by the same people as the same mayors. After all, all Gorenjeks pay for such political games with a lower quality of life. Sometimes we carry one part of the blame ourselves, such as the case of landfilling waste. If all of Gorenska were united, if there was a single solution, surely no central authority would afford games in this and reject proposals. If we had democratically, directly, as we suggest, elected municipal councils with a high level of legitimacy would make such or otherwise a final decision. And this decision would apply and this decision would, in that appropriate case, represent a three to five times lower price for the removal and disposal of waste. You know what savings this is, and what does that mean for Gorenjec? These are the arguments that we are facing, but I think that this is a primal rejection of all our proposals, which we regret to witness today, that we are speaking openly and without distraction, in fact not so much the result of political prestige as the fact that many provinces are afraid of. Because then it will be the end of fishing in mud and then it will be obvious if a solution is put in conflict with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, such as the last amendment to the law governing the financing of the Ljubljana Municipality, which translates it into a treaty by negotiation and so on. You know the European Charter on Local Self-Government also establishes a local self-government which would be the second level of this local self-government, i.e. as the basis of what protects against central government, that is, protecting a citizen, a citizen, a citizen, a citizen, a citizen, a resident, against the will of the central government. Therefore, it expressly requires that sources of funding for any level of local self-government be placed in such a way that they are independent of each central position or government or that they cannot be adapted to the potential compatibility or incompatibility of the individual municipal or other municipalities and central authorities. These are all the reasons that are essential, and therefore the introduction of local self-government at its second level, i.e. full-scale landscapes, would not only mean the constitutional implementation of the principle that we have decided on with a high degree of consensus, but would also represent a great development potential, would be a development incentive and would allow people to decide more on their own destiny. This is very important, and someone will give it as a counter argument, because we now hear it in addition to the misdirection about the number of provinces, and it will be silent that this was actually the basis of the demand of the current largest ruling party once. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u145	Mr. Grimes, I'm asking you to stick to the law. We're talking about the law on elections to the provinces. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u146	We're talking at first reading. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] We are talking about the reasons why a law is proposed, and this is a small part of the whole composition of these provincial laws. [[...]] We need this law and the others to get to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u147	But we are talking about the law on elections to the provinces, and in the College it was suggested that all laws be dealt with together. On your part, it was an objection, so we are considering each law individually. Stick to this principle as much as possible, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u148	Mr President, I hope that we agree on something at least; if we had provinces with directly elected municipal or provincial councils, then people could make more direct decisions about their destiny. In our proposal, the mayors would also have some power in these procedures, but key decisions would be taken by those who would gain legitimacy in direct elections by a general secret vote in that province. Then each province could develop its own development concept to a greater extent, and this would also mean protection against possible inaction or mismanagement of the central government. That is why the argument, which has also been in the air today, yes, at the time of the crisis, the introduction of the landscapes is entirely and fundamentally flawed. Because it is against a completely incompetent central authority that we would have the opportunity to act at the provincial level and, therefore, at least in that part decide on our own destiny and be more successful than the rest of Slovenia. Any province, depending on the authority chosen by itself in the direct secret elections, would therefore decide to a greater extent its fate. It is true, however, that I also understand this dilemma that this developmental impotence of the central government would become so obvious and that it would become so much more necessary to use the Viagra of early elections to get back to growing what we all want, and this is Slovenian economic development. We have not decided on a proposal for a law on elections to the provinces in such a form. We decided after we had already drawn on the experience of the previous mandate when a number of discussions were held between the various parties and a very high degree of consensus was reached in this law. Some European guidelines have also been taken into account, for example, concerning gender equality and some other solutions. Therefore, rejection of this law makes no sense. It can be complemented, it can be improved. Any law can be supplemented, improved, and it is a fundamental principle to establish circumstances, i.e. at the legislative level, to enable the implementation of a constitutional principle that commands the introduction of provinces. This gives it the opportunity to realize the additional potential of this well-founded development potential and thus move things from a dead point, irrespective of any central authority. I think that the stagnation in Slovenia and its, unfortunately, also an extremely severe setback, much worse than the average in Europe last year, has been enough for everyone's experience, and that is why it has to be cut down on institutional level.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Monday, 8 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the first stage of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the free will of the loved ones in the first foreign world within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Magi Act. Branku Grims for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you again for your words and once again a very nice greeting to everyone. I am very pleased that, at this time, there has been an increase in the number of those present from the ruling coalition, from the initial two to, I think six, if I count correctly. This is already a small step for this National Assembly, and great for the ruling coalition and I welcome it. When we talk about division into constituencies, it should be pointed out that here there is a candidate, so the SDS, to the greatest extent possible, followed the example set by electoral units at the state level and the way they are designed, as well as the way in which legislation is adopted. How is it with the majority when it comes to accepting this at national level when it comes to national elections, I have already said. A qualified two-thirds majority is only under the basic law, which is the Electoral Law, while the Electoral Units and Electoral Steals Act is based on a lower degree of consent. It's just a normal marriage. The same is done here. However, those principles are respected, even I say that to a greater extent, which is dictated by constitutional law when it comes to the formation of electoral units. Two are taken into account, on the one hand, that electoral units are formed by approximately the same number of Members and Members of Parliament elected to approximately the same number of electors and voters, which is crucial. On the other hand, to take account of the different historical, geographical, sociological, and all other forms of connections that exist within a particular province to the greatest extent possible. Let me, as a concrete example, borrow from Gorenjska again what it would be like to do. Gorenjska would be divided into seven constituencies, together Kranjska Gora and Jesenice, representing in fact one centre of gravity, then Bled, Bohinj and Gora, as a distinctly rounded geographical constituency, as well as a historical and in many respects, Radovljica and Žirovnica, Tržič and Naklo, which are connected to the road with many, with the river, with many other natural details, then Škofja Loka, Goranje vas, Poljanje, Žiri, especially Kranj and as the last would be an electoral unit covering the area between Kranj and the Austrian border, namely the Municipality of Predvor, Jezersko, Church in Gorenjska and Šenčur. A number of Members and Members would therefore be chosen together in these constituencies. The reason for us to come to such an election division is simple. In this way it is achieved that there is no regional centralisation of decision-making and in the final stage, because we are all people, even the division that will reflect after the budget is shared, in some way the elected composition of municipal or provincial councils. In this way, we prevent too many people from being elected only in regional centres or almost all, because they would probably also be better known, they would be the peaks if they had only one constituency in the entire province, but that they are more evenly represented at different ends, which, of course, also ensures a better knowledge of the issue on the ground and, at the same time, a more even representation of individual interests. This is certainly in the common interest of the development of the entire province and of course of the people who live there, and in the final stage of all the strong debates today I would remind you that this is actually the case. It is the quality of life of people living in Slovenia, in its historical geographical boundaries, long known. It is up to us to decide whether we will do so and whether we will continue from political prestige, as has unfortunately been the case for several years, to block decisions that are necessary to implement the constitutional principle and establish the provinces. I'm stressing again. As is the case with the previous law, here too, of course, the division depends on the number of provinces, this has to be arranged, there is no problem. Even with regard to individual principles, we can agree, of course, that this is accepted, as I have already pointed out in the previous law, but this story moves from a dead point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u152	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. I am pleased to hear the argument of the proposed legislation, which is nothing more than an argument when we propose a coordinated proposal for regional legislation. Nothing. The only difference is that the division proposed is professionally unfounded. I see that there will be, at least so many differences when we also reconcile those things that I think are not so coordinated, even though this number of landscapes is coming out. But I don't think the content, the powers, the argument will be essential to what I'm listening to today. If I go back to the bill proposal in the election units for the first circuit council. The Government has examined this proposal together with the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Provinces, which was submitted by a group of Members at the same time to the National Assembly and the content of which is the basis for this law. The bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council is properly drafted. and according to the territorial division of Slovenia to 13 provinces and the special status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. As I have already said, considering the second law on the provinces, the Government does not support such regionalisation. Regionalisation must be based on the geographical and economic structure of Slovenia, the concept of polycentralism and decentralisation. At the same time, it is essential to take into account the modern processes of European regionalism and the processes of economic information and environmental globalisation. This is the only way to ensure that the provinces have sufficient regional development potential and that they can make optimal use of central, that is to say, development-based functions or tasks and quality public services of wider regional importance. The government considers that the formation of electoral units is justified by the establishment of large provinces, with the impact of smaller areas of the provinces needed to be ensured with regard to the decision-making of the provincial authorities. However, in a way that will not affect the independence of the provinces or the independence of the congregations. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the draft law on the election of units for elections in the first provincial council and the continuation of the consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u154	If anything, perhaps today this debate has been useful for those of us all the time, both for each side and for the Government, that we have actually, if not, learned the complexity and interrelationship of laws. Thus, after the first three laws under consideration, we came to the previous one, i.e. the electoral law, for which we could find a consensus, that it is appropriate, that there is a basis for, if this was a phased work of adopting this legislation, because it is, in fact, independent and neutral. For all other marriages, however, the problem is that they are closely related. Thus, the draft law on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council is bound by the law that we will consider after it, namely the law on the establishment of the provinces, because that law already specifies that 13 and 14 provinces should be defined and specifically named. As a result, the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council is so specific that it already accurately defines the specificity of the province, the specific number of provincial councillors and, of course, it is separate to adopt it, even with all good will to adopt the electoral law, it is therefore impossible to adopt it. But it is properly prepared, and the cost assessment is also quite high, that is, three million and a half euros, according to the government's assessment, the financial implications of the bill. Such a cost would be the cost of the first elections in the provinces. While it is in accordance with the law the cost of the elections, except for the execution of the first elections in 2012, when the funds will be provided by redeployment from the Ministry, which means that I understand that this would already be the cost of the province or the provincial councils, which is to begin with whether such a method of acceptance is appropriate or not. Talking about such a law before we know the number of provinces and also the procedures for how the provinces are to be created and formed is, of course, possible only in the package, alone or at the moment, at least not acceptable to us and we cannot talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak’s position on the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We have before us the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council. It is true that it is an integral part of other laws of the provincial package, but it is also true that you find it difficult to perceive the situation somehow when you listen to the government and say that everything is fine with the laws, but then in the last sentence, the resignation that they will not support them. This law is absolutely linked to what, if I may say so, to the contested law, because the number of regions that then established this law is the same, but the fundamental objectives of this law are to determine by this law the number of constituencies, to determine the areas of these constituencies, to determine the number of members of the provincial councils, they should have between 33 and 55 members of the provincial councils. The basic unit for determining the constituencies is actually the municipality, so we have written down here, and that from this rule, which is written down, we are only really giving up in large cities, where the density of the population makes it possible for individual parts of the city to appear as an electoral unit. Otherwise, the number of so-called representatives, members of the province's worlds, is different in terms of the numbers of the population, so for the whole province we assume 45 members, and some 193,000 inhabitants, for the lower-Belconian 39 in 110 000, for the mountain 47 in 202,000, for the southern coastal 41 in 145 thousand, for the Koroška 35 in 72 thousand inhabitants, for the Kamnik-Sawska 43 in 178 thousand inhabitants, for the interior-Dolenj 41 in 162 thousand inhabitants, for the central Styrian 49 in the actual highest proposed province with 235 thousand inhabitants, for the Murjana, for the special status, for the pomurska 39 in 119 thousand, for the Posavska 35 in 74 thousand, for the so-called Savinja-Shaleška 33 at 61 thousand and the northern Primorska 37 at 119 thousand and the eastern Styerska 37 at 86 thousand. Let me conclude that I believe what you have said, Mr Minister, that some of the fundamental solutions that are enshrined in this law will in some way be the same in your supposed proposal. I also believe that you believe that, but I don't. Probably not your associates either, because they've been there too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u157	Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u158	The law, which has the title of the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council, is, as we have already heard, an integral part of the package of six laws which have as a whole the task and purpose of establishing the provinces. And given that electoral units have to be established for the first provincial councils, to determine the areas of the provinces, the number of landscapes, it is an important law, a law which, in all conceptual matters, has been made in the transitional laws first in the area of jurisdiction, financing of the provinces, is also dealt with in this law and in the following law, the law on the establishment of the provinces, with a great dilemma of Slovenian space throughout the years when we determine the provinces first and the next step are the electoral units within these provinces. With regard to the system itself, colleagues who had previously presented the views of the parliamentary groups presented the law well, so allow me to focus and say on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party in particular the position towards the part of the law which foresees the provinces and also defines the electoral units. Once again, let me confirm the position which is also the result of this law in the Slovenian People's Party, because it was created at a time when our Minister, Mr Žagar, prepared the number of provinces. I think it is very important for all the designers who are designing the landscapes today that we have heard today that in the Slovenian space in many political parties, it is very difficult to imagine the creation and provincialisation of Slovenia in the event that it will not be on this map as the independent provinces of Pomurje, Koroška and, if you want, Posavi as an area from which I come myself. I think that we all agree that the landscapes that are designed in this law are the regions that already function as functional wholes, the regions in which the development regions function, so to speak, statistical regions. The Posavik space that I have already highlighted is one such, and in no case can we agree to different positions. We are of the same opinion in the environment of other areas, so I think it would be very right that, as we have said today, we have become acquainted with this complete substance in detail, with all the laws to get to know the views of individual parliamentary groups, and it is appropriate that all of us together also establish the provinces in Slovenia, prepare future legislation. The proposed bill on electoral units for the first provincial councils will be supported unanimously by the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate. Mr. Bogovich, would you like to discuss it? No, no, no. You're giving up. Then I give the floor to Dr. Vinku Gorenak. You're giving up. Would you like a representative of the government, Minister? No, no, no. Proposer? Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u160	Only two brief explanations in relation to the discussion that was held. This law lays down the principles for the establishment of constituencies, and that is why this must be understood from this point of view. This is said to be the electoral unit within the provinces in order to distribute the decision-making power more evenly within the entire province and therefore more evenly, it adequately represents the interests of people from the entire province in the municipal world. So that no one could think that the whole province would be a single electoral unit, which, of course, could be in the final stage, especially if the number of provinces introduced was unreasonablely small, which could be transformed from the current situation into some regional centralisation, which, of course, did not result in much from the development of a balanced economic and sustainable development of Slovenia. It is essential that all these models work to somehow find the optimal solution between the size of the landscapes, which must not be too large, because, let's say, I don't know, the division of Slovenia into three provinces, as we've heard about some philosophy, is larifari, it doesn't matter if we don't have them. This means that you will have only some three central points and, of course, the central authority, which will balance with these three points, as it would seem. It's not something that's close to people. On the other hand, there are probably 22 provinces, which I think was also once one SD proposal or another party, which I personally think is a bit large, because this is then such a large number that the question is whether each of them can fully represent and also carry out all the tasks and interests that are being achieved within the provinces. Is the right optimal number exactly what is proposed here? According to our assessment, according to the people's expressed wishes, according to the geographical units that form Slovenia, according to all the different variants that have been overplayed, and in the end this majority confirmation has also experienced such a distribution in the referendum that has been carried out. No one can possibly afford a significant deviation from such a solution. But as it's said, from how many provinces we're going to have, it depends on the nomotechnician in this marriage. But the important thing is that these are principles. It is said that each province must be divided into electoral units, that the units that take account of geographical details, historical details must be rounded up, in short, all that is required by constitutional law to be taken into account in the formation of electoral units. For this reason, we firmly believe that this proposed law is very good and also very professionally prepared. But I should answer another dilemma that was exposed. It's a cost question. This is often the case, but when we talk about elections and the electoral system, it must be said that there is nothing more expensive or more expensive than the division into electoral units within the province. It is simply that some cost of each election in the territory of the whole of Slovenia, and it is probably clear that the elections would be at the same time in all the provinces, represent and the cost is known. It's a few hundred thousand euros. Here the matter is quite clear, from every single national election, from the holding of the referendum, the differences within this are relatively small. As it is said, the split itself into electoral units does not affect these costs. However, there is one general answer that needs to be highlighted very clearly. Every democracy costs something. But these are extremely rationally used resources, because nothing is more expensive than incompetent central authority with too much power. There's nothing more expensive. Now that's crystal clear, it'll show up with a number. With €6.3 billion, this poor Slovenia, with its current power, has been indebted in one year, not that new highly productive jobs have been opening up, but that the number of employees has decreased by 40,000. 40,000 people went on the road, lost their jobs, lost their social security. There's nothing more expensive than that, ladies and gentlemen. And so if I paraphrase what I said before, we have 6.3 billion Euros of reasons to cure this development impotence of the present central government by Viagra elections as soon as possible and 40,000 human additional reasons to speed it up as quickly as possible. This is the story we're actually facing. And that this authority is really the same as I say, in fact, it also acknowledges in some way that it is very difficult or in no way manages to reconcile what it actually wants in the provinces and, above all, whose powers it would transfer to the provinces. There's still a lot of loose ends. Of course, this is essential, and here I specifically point out that everything we are talking about is only meaningful if, as the Constitution requires, it transfers powers from the state level to the province level, so that it does not accidentally occur to anyone who has weak jurisdiction to take the congregations and then combine them at the provincial level, if it is more rational that no one really needs them. We need units that will be close to people and that will represent appropriate developmental and other strength and counterweight against, as I said before, the incompetent central authorities with too much power. When it comes to the cost of this disaster for Slovenia, which I have been talking about, 6.3 billion euro debt in just one year, that is an awful large sum, that is more than half of that sum, which was the total of the former Yugoslav debt and which caused the state to break down, represents, in the light of the cost of the elections for the whole country, whatever the election I am now talking about, only if we compare it, the cost of the elections is only less than one ten thousand of that sum. It is clear, then, that it is worth giving priority to, for it opens up new options, frees up new development potentials and frees up what we all want, faster development and thus higher quality of human life. This is what led us in the drafting of these proposals and which is why we are also today in this Chamber as the proponents of this legislation. Once again, we propose that at least as a starting point this be accepted and possibly complemented by appropriate arrangements and, of course, by an appropriate procedure within the framework of the legislation as regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u161	All those of you who wanted it, you've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Monday, 8 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. It's the first time we're proposing a law on the establishment of lands. In the context of the regular procedure, a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a bill for consideration to the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to Mr Marjan Pojbic, the representative of the bill's proposer for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u162	Respectable. The aim of the bill is to divide the areas of the country into areas of the provinces as self-government local communities and to establish provinces in Slovenia, to identify their names and seats and to determine the number of members of the first provincial councils. The law is based on the principle of decentralisation of power as a component of the principle of the division of power of the people, which requires the decentralisation of the power of functions and the transfer of the management of an important part of public affairs and of public funds from the country to a local level. The proposed establishment of the provinces shall take as much account as possible of the results of the vote in the consultation referendum, which were found at the level of certain referendum areas proposed at the level of municipalities. According to the majority expressed, the proposal is open to voters at the consultative referendum of the regions in Slovenia, their names and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. In the case of the proposed southern coastal region, in which voters have expressed their majority opposition to the establishment and designation of the province in relation to the definition of voters in the proposed North Sea Region, the referendum outcome cannot be understood as a requirement for the establishment of a coastal province, which would cover the area of the proposed southern coastal and northern coastal regions, and therefore the proposed establishment of a southern coastal region, as proposed by the referendum question. In the case of the proposed Slovenian province, in which the voters have expressed their opposition to the establishment of this province, the opinions of the municipal councils and the mayors of the municipalities of the northern and southern parts of the proposed province are taken into account by proposing two provinces. Thus, in the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, the proposed 13 provinces and the Municipality of Ljubljana, which receives the legal status of the province. The names of the provinces are as follows: Celjska krajina, Dolenjsko-Belokranjska, Gorenjska krajina, South Primorska, Koroška, Kamniško-zasavska, Notranj-Dolenjska, Central Stajerska, Pomurska, Posavska, Savinj-Šaleška, Severnoprimorska, Eaststierska and Municipality of Ljubljana, which receives the legal status of the province. The proposed designation of the provinces shall take into account the historical, geographical and cultural characteristics of the area and the majority will of the inhabitants of the regions expressed in the referendum questions on the names of the provinces. The establishment of the county seat shall take into account the administrative, cultural or economic-central functions of the cities. We will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, since this law needs a two-thirds majority, we are already convinced in advance that we will not have support for the adoption of this law in the coalition, because it has already been very clear in the adoption of all these laws that we have discussed today that the coalition, as well as the Government of these proposals, does not support the law. According to my assessment and according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, it does not want to take this provincial legislation seriously and, in my opinion, it is completely irrelevant how regionalisation will be to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Stefan Tessel. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, it happens at many points in the agenda. You have the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for a law establishing the provinces was addressed by the Government, together with proposals for laws tabled by a group of Members at the same time, representing, in terms of the establishment of the landscapes, the whole. And it is not true that the government is not serious about the provinces, as we have heard now. The problem is that I am listening to the argument with which the Government will present its proposal - when it aligns it. However, we are now considering an uncoordinated law. You know well that this is the sixth attempt at regionalisation of Slovenia; you know well that the attempt to divide Slovenia already has a beard; you know well that many people involved were once on this side, once on the other side. Therefore, as I said in the introduction, the Government has approached this problem with experts, with professional grounds. In this way, we would like to create a basis on which we will communicate rationally. I have the feeling that we all have the same argument about the need to establish landscapes, but the debate itself is decorated with endlessly large decorations and is irrational in this context. The proposal for a law establishing the provinces proposes the establishment of 13 provinces and a specific status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The establishment of the provinces is the basis for the concept of the provinces of the former government, which, following an analysis of the provincial law, was professionally rejected. A key reason for the professional rejection of this concept of landscapes was the proposed separation of Slovenia. The consultation referendum was also mentioned. The interpretation of the results of the consultation referendum may be such or different, depending on who interprets it. What worries me is that participation was around 10% and the population expressed plebiscite not interested in creating a second level of local self-government. That's worrying to me. In addition to supplementing its proposal for legislation to try to comply with all stakeholders, the government will also try to interest the local public, i.e. the population, in order to know why the provinces need to. Because now, in the vast majority, if you ask them, they see in this only the additional costs of administration and no other benefits. In the event of the division of Slovenia in the proposed fourteen provinces, there would be fewer than 10 000 inhabitants. They would have a very modest regional, developmental and other potential. This requires, inter alia, a reduction in macro-regional competences, a fragmentation of regional development potentials and a limited capacity to compete with the strong and larger regions and cities of neighbouring countries. It is therefore questionable whether such regions can function effectively or are as financially autonomous and self-confident as possible in the development regions. Weak provinces, many with the predominance of developmental problem areas, would be uneven, a strong country still very subjugated. The pronounced regional fragmentation of Slovenia with many provinces would therefore continue to allow for the continuation of state decentralisation and regionalisation would not achieve what we want, it is the decentralisation of Slovenia. And such a concept of regionalisation of the government to support. In the current crisis period, there is a growing awareness that, in particular, the provinces with sufficient development capital can hope for a development breakthrough, a sustainable increase in prosperity and quality of life. Through regional policy and provincial legislation, it is therefore necessary to support the establishment of such mechanisms that will truly enable more coherent development within a larger province and prevent development concentration only at its centre. The Government considers that the well-founded establishment of large provinces, which must be ensured by the impact of the smaller internal areas of the provinces as regards the decision-making of the provincial authorities. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support further consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u166	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members! During the previous term of office, the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group prepared a draft provincial legislation, which was not adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. When we re-invest in the parliamentary procedure, we are counting on a positive shift. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will therefore open the Act establishing the provinces. The amendment of the Constitution was adopted at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 January 2006, in Articles 121, 140 and 143, which constituted the basis for the adoption of provincial legislation. In May 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduced the first package of provincial legislation into the national constituency procedure and in November 2007. 182 congregations, which means 86.7%, supported the establishment of 11 provinces, while there was no agreement for two. The proposal did not receive two-thirds support in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Act establishing the provinces was rejected at first reading. The introduction of the provinces will result in decentralisation of the country, more equitable development of Slovenia and more direct decision-making of citizens and citizens on the problem in their environment. The introduction of landscapes will provide a greater opportunity to acquire European funds for development even after 2013. The establishment of 14 provinces is based on the basis that in Slovenia we have more than a decade of 12 statistical regions and 2 so-called sub-regions. Although the regional division of 12 provinces was created in the 1970s, it was also taken over by the Statistical Office. It introduces and takes into account the main socioeconomic regions of Slovenia. On average, the province would have 132 000 inhabitants, which is still comparable to European membership. Thus, the population would have relatively close to the provincial centre and would mean administrative, economic, cultural, school and mainly health, at the secondary level, rounding. If we look at the proposed landscapes and their seats, because the seats of the provincial councils and the provincial administration are somewhere in the same city, if it is a centre that is more widely established, or at two different centres, that these regions are more connected or more well-respected. The mainland region has the seat of both the provincial council and the provincial administration in Celje. Dolenje-Belkoranska has a seat in the New Town. Gorenjska has the seat of the Regional Council in Bled, the seat of the Regional Administration in Kranj. The South Sea has the seat of the Regional Council in Sežana, the administration in Koper. Koroška krajina with the seat of the Regional Council in Slovenj Gradc, administration at Ravna, Koroškem. The Kamnik-Sava province with the seat of the Regional Council in Trbovje and the provincial administration in Kamnik. This may have been the least fortunate as rounded next to Notranj-Dolenjska, which originally meant central Slovenia. This Notranj-Dolenjska with the seat of the Regional Council in Ribnica and the provincial administration in Vrhnika. Central Styria Region with its seat in Maribor, Pomeranian Region with its seat in Ljutomer and the provincial administration in Murska Sobota. Landing of the province with the seat of the Regional Council in Brežice and the provincial administration in Kršek. The Savinij-Shale region with the seat of the provincial council in Mozir and the provincial administration in Velenj. The northern coastal region with its seat in Idrija and its seat in Novi Gorica. The eastern region with the seat of the Regional Council in Ormož and the provincial administration in Ptuj. 14th district is represented by the Municipality of Ljubljana. The municipalities located at the border of the provinces have the possibility by law to decide to join the neighbouring province in one year with a referendum. Such a decision requires the consent of at least half of the county’s municipal councils, the so - called hostess, to which they would belong. As already mentioned, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposal for a law establishing the provinces and we want the procedure to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u168	Nice greetings to all those who insist to the end, so do you, Mr. Vice President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! I continue to say where my colleague ended up, with the support of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. For as we know, it is a package, a package in which we have been very actively involved, and this package also definitively establishes these provinces to such an extent as has been previously presented. I am also firmly convinced that in Slovenia, as I said in previous presentations, we should take this path by the end of 2008 so that today these provinces will act to be active and to help Slovenia in further development; especially in those functions, because I also agree with many who warn that these larger development functions will become a problem if we have only this division in Slovenia and in 210 municipalities. It is also interesting what is presented in the explanation of this law, how we are in many ways comparable to someone else and also with the large country of Germany. It is right that we begin to compare ourselves with Germany, first of all with any of the country’s governments. Certainly the comparison with Bavaria, which is in here, can in some way also look at how things are going there and how they are at Bavarian level, then "Landkreis" and also the municipalities "Gemeinde", things are arranged. It is also interesting to see how, throughout the centuries since the founding of 240 such Landkreis, there has been a further division over a hundred years or in 1919 to 143 and then in 1972 to a smaller number 72. This means that such development is a local self-government process that has changed over the years. I am also firmly convinced that if the provinces, either in such a form or with complementary proposals, were to be established in further consideration, you could also see in Slovenia below whether something needs to be changed or whether any of the powers that we have previously dealt with should be inter-regionally linked. I don't know, maybe do it in the field of higher education, I'm back in my own case, some sort of higher education environment that would take over the whole Celje region, the Posavic region, as well as the Lower Region. In this way, I firmly believe that these regions would be linked quickly at a lower level and also to the allocation of resources, with only the allocation of the search for development opportunities and, above all, with the transfer of responsibility for development to a lower level, I firmly believe that Slovenia would make major developments. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, once again, we support such a proposal for a law establishing the provinces that we have before us today. Perhaps there are some areas on the border and it might also be worth trying in this procedure to adopt this law for any relocation or similar, if there was such a decision at the local level. Otherwise, I think it is a very suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u170	Metaphorically, we're where it all starts and it all ends. We are also at the end, and the whole story is and will be and will revolve around the number of landscapes around what these landscapes will be called, and then the circle we started this morning will end. Once again, I have been involved in the drafting of constitutional changes for the sake of regionalisation. At that time, the Slovenian National Party proposed that the number of provinces, then agreed before the constitutional amendment, be determined in agreement and introduced into the Constitution as a constitutional provision. That was not the case at the time, and I think that this is still being paid in a way that is powerful today. This is evidenced by the fact that comments on the number of provinces and on the names of the provinces gave quite a few more than 180 municipalities out of 210, which proves that all of us, including me, have different views, different opinions, different opinions. On the one hand, it was nice to chat about how we actually did - a concrete example I will say a little about the hack - the Stonemen and the Sausages were arguing, not about who didn't want anyone, but about who said from us that the neighbor didn't want to be around. So my respected colleague Smolnikar said, "I was the first one to say I don't like you." And I said, "We were the first to say we didn't like you." In fact, this is an example of an unfortunate connection created by the fact that the designers could not fit in a medium or by physical-geographical, socio-geographical or demographic characteristics. However, this specification has played its part in this, not in other cases - for example, in Primorskie and so on. In fact, 13 and 14 provinces, with this special situation of Ljubljana, are too large in any case for a two-million-dollar Slovenia. I understand the proposalers that if we were so far off, we would be united at that time, and if regionalisation were to begin to take place, if there was a lot of obedience to the chalice, we might be able to revive these landscapes today. I could. However, there will be a new provincial legislation that this or the future government will prepare to make some proposals, where we will be very close, will live, but it is unlikely that there will be complete satisfaction. In the Slovenian National Party, we told the Minister that at the time of the creation of NUTS levels, i.e. two provinces at the European level, and after looking at NUTS3 levels, we said that there were up to 3 provinces for Slovenia. So Western, central and east. These were then the first attempts of understanding. We have pointed out many times later that we see the only solution in the names and forms of the landscapes on solid historical facts, such as Slovenia was 100 years ago, and as it would have been historically and politically right for Slovenia to have 5 provinces. Gorenjsko, single Primorsko Koroško, Štajersko and Prekmurje, or central Slovene - not central Slovenian, Slovenian. These five historical landscapes, which, even if we increase or decrease them, have been the same in history. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that this would be the only real division, we have told the Minister, we have also made such a proposal, and our agreement is that in this case only we will cooperate and support the regionalisation process in this part of all complex laws. Finally, I think it has been instructive to deal with today all six laws where we have come to know this causal - consequent link. But we have learned perhaps something from what I think is also good for the government, that however from all these laws that are intertwined does not come out one that is easy to base. This one is the Law on Regional Elections, which can be completely independent, but is a law that is prepared when regionalisation, regionalisation or whatever you want will be said to do so, or provincialisation - that we will have provinces. It would be one step if we went phased and I thought that good, but I also understand this government if it wanted to work in a package, but this package would, in my opinion, be a completely well-intentioned warning, experienced - once again - the same fate as this package. [[...]] Because, finally, we will reach one of five or six laws that we will not be satisfied with and will be bound by all the other five or six new laws so that we will actually break everything again. It might be good to start by adopting a law on elections to the provinces, in general, and then gradually continue to adopt the law, even though we are immediately with the others, who are bound together. I think that most of the work will have to be done - if already in the part where the powers will be exercised, where it will have to be clearly defined, whether it will be a single or a two-tier system, whose administrative functions of the State will be fully and must remain fully - at least I think that the defence, the internal ministry, foreign policy activities, for the other things, I do not know, I am not so keen - but for all the other transfers should be very precisely defined. With a very precise definition, we can also draw up a law on the financing of landscapes and make a financial structure. However, I am sure that it will not be until 2013 when the economic, economic, fiscal and monetary policies of the Republic of Slovenia are crystallized. That is how I think that after today's debate we will find some kind of state-of-the-art solution, which will find a common solution because you have stressed and I fully agree with you: the only ones who have the right to decide whether to say so or not are Slovenians, and not Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the positions of the Members. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u172	Dear President! I should have said the following first. Mr. Minister, something has disturbed me in your debate, namely the following. You said you now have a group of experts preparing this legislation. That's what you said. So, if he understands you correctly, Dr. Ivan Žagar in the previous government and his group, I don't know if any of the people here today who worked with him at the time and prepared this legislation were experts. Because if you claim that you are now preparing legislation professionally, on professional grounds, that is, the previous government or former group, the one that drafted that legislation, I don't know what the basis was then. That's what I'm wondering. What do you think Dr. Ivan Žagar is less capable of than you, Mr. Minister? I think that's a little too much. A little too much. You said the referendum was poorly attended. You know very well, and we are all very well acquainted with how Slovenians like to visit and go to referendums. You know what's most important? It is up to those who come to the referendum and those who have come to the referendum to support the proposed solutions with a large majority. With a big majority! In most cases with a large majority. Well, this statement of yours certainly doesn't hold. I'm sure of that. And you know exactly that the referendum decisions are positive because the positive effect of the referendum decision is that of the voters and voters who came to the referendum, that is, those who reached the highest percentage. And in this referendum, it is certain that people have decided on the solutions proposed in this referendum. When I read your position, which is negative, which was logical, you wrote this, quote: "In the current crisis period, the realization is strengthened that, in particular, the provinces with sufficient development capital can hope for a development breakthrough, a sustainable rise in prosperity and quality of life. In the case of the division of Slovenia in the proposed 14 provinces, there would be fewer than 100,000 inhabitants and very modest development and other potential. This entails, inter alia, the need to reduce the expected macro-regional competences, the fragmentation of regional development potentials, the limited capacity to compete with strong and larger regions and urban neighbouring countries, and the questionability of the effective functioning of the region as a financially autonomous and self-confident European development region. Many weak regions with the predominance of developmental problem areas would likely be unequal, a strong country still a very subordinate partner, a strong regional development of Slovenia with many provinces would therefore continue to allow a more subtle continuation of state centralisation." A while ago, Dr. Chelan sent his vision of regionalisation to the National Assembly. This is a member of LDS and the mayor of the municipality of Ptuj. He wrote: "Membership of Slovenia to 14 provinces. The current proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was based on the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. The proposal reflects the most credible version of the state of play in the country. All 14 proposed provinces have long-term development programmes that are the basis for promoting more equitable development in Slovenia. There is virtually no political party in Slovenia that does not support the regionalisation of Slovenia in its own programme. A large majority of the parties have participated in the creation of a law on promoting coherent regional development, which has divided Slovenia into 12 statistical regions and two functionally final regions. In 2004, the current government amended the law on promoting coherent regional development and changed statistical and functionally completed regions into 14 development regions. Thus, the division of Slovenia into 14 provinces has become a political and at the same time an already functioning reality." Under Chapter 74, he wrote the following: "The size of the territory and its developmental efficiency. The hypothesis of some experts that size is a prerequisite for creative creativity is quite funny. If that were the case, then all small countries such as Ireland, Finland and so on would be the last place in the indicators of development and China should go far beyond the whole world by development indicators. And the picture is the other way around. Therefore, according to the logic of the size of the territories and the number of the population, Slovenia must be abolished as a country, because it is by this logic that it represents a medium-sized suburb of major European cities. Despite this, we have a country with all its characteristics and characteristics, which simply cannot be the same as the 100- and multi-million-dollar nations. Therefore, the claims of some experts that the size of the country is not important for economic development and the smallness of the province can even hinder development, which is ridiculous. I am even more surprised by some statements made by mayors and mayors who see the solution of Slovenia in the largest possible provinces, but at the same time their municipalities by territory and population do not even reach a medium-sized street in the larger city. Without great wisdom in Slovenia it is possible to prove that the size of municipalities has very little impact on development performance. In everyday practice, it is possible to see very successful cases of development in very small municipalities and many developmental deaths in large municipalities. Tomorrow will be exactly the same in the provinces. The ability of living people and their creativity will therefore depend on its development and not on the size of the territory." And I quote another paragraph: "The scope and borders of the future province must cover only those people who feel that they belong to this space and want to manage it. They must be able to respond positively to questions about why to participate in development, what to do and how to do this." And to conclude: "It follows from the above findings that it is necessary to establish primarily such provinces as will serve to promote development excellence. This can be optimally achieved by establishing at least 11 provinces with the central gravity centres of the city municipality. There are practically no political parties in Slovenia who do not support the regionalisation of Slovenia in their own programme. A large majority of the parties have participated in the creation of a law on promoting coherent regional development, which has divided Slovenia into 12 statistical regions and 2 functionally completed regions. In 2004, the current government changed the law on the promotion of coherent regional development to statistical and functionally completed regions, and amended the law on the promotion of coherent regional development into 14 development regions. With this, the division of Slovenia into 13 provinces has become a political and at the same time an already functioning reality. The division of Slovenia to 6 or 8 provinces causes many antagonisms, both in achieving developmental and political consensus. Having 4 municipalities and 80 smaller municipalities in the province, it certainly leads to the Lisbon paradox at the provincial level." So this was written by Dr. Chelan, Mayor of the Municipality of Ptuj. And, Minister, I'm sure with what Dr. Chelan wrote here, it's clear that what you're saying and the arguments you're using, that 14 provinces are too many, is not true. There's a lot to be said about that. It is also important that this country is divided into 14 regions, because it has also made it very clear why this is necessary and why this will probably be the optimal solution for us to be able to reach regionalisation in the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that, in order not to move forward in regionalisation, there is not so much on the government and the government coalition, especially in the lobbies that come from the background. And these key lobbies, of course, come from ministries, agencies and from where they do not want to decentralise the country. They certainly don't want to do a little work because they want to continue to enjoy themselves. Of course, the controls are very bad. Ask Slovenians and Slovenians who come to the ministries to solve any problems. Ask me a few questions, go to the people, and you'll see! People say it's a disaster. They just send them from door to door and if you don't have connections - that's the worst I've ever heard from most people - you can't succeed or achieve anything. This is this country's problem, and it's not funny. That's the big truth. These are the problems faced by most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have no connections, they have no friends who would allow them to have certain problems that are still exposed to the periphery, where development is very low, so that the situation could be as solved for them as it is in the city of Ljubljana, where development is practically 30% higher than in most other regions. I am convinced that regionalisation alone can lead to a more coherent regional development of the country in such a way that important powers, money and also people from ministries will be transferred from countries, and then there will be little need to speak and create a demagogy that I do not know how much resources are needed to enable regionalisation to come to life. In the previous mandate, the government has drawn up, I am sure, extremely, extremely good quality and good legislation in this area as well. It was clear from this legislation how that government imagined the decentralisation of that country. And believe me, for a long time we're going to draw this issue in a situation as it is now, there's going to be a greater difference between regions. It'll make a bigger difference. This is certainly not in the interest of those sitting in the National Assembly. He can't be and he can't be! You, Minister, come from Prlecia, if I am not mistaken, and you may ask what is the difference between the development of that region and the development of the Ljubljana Congregation. And already in this mandate a law has been passed that you forced Ljubljana to still have too little money and that more needs to be given from the budget so that Jankovic can laugh and do what he does. It builds a stadium and everything that belongs to it, some malls and all that and so on, which absolutely at this point in Slovenia, in this critical situation, when people have nothing to live on, is not necessary. It's a waste of money and it's taxpayer's, not his. If this could go out of his personal pocket, thank God he can do what he wants for me. But when it comes out of our pocket, from the money created by those who have 550 euros in wages, then we must imagine ourselves in the National Assembly. Then we have to think about it in the National Assembly. And this is all about regionalisation! If regions were established, a lot of resources would come from certain resources directly to the regions. We wouldn't need a Ministry Mediator, just like this is happening right now. These are the key problems that urgently need to be addressed and could be addressed at a second stage of local self-government, i.e. through regionalisation. And we don't want to listen to what people want. Of course, if you keep telling people that regionalisation will only bring costs to citizens and citizens, believe me, then surely they will never vote for it. It is those who are responsible, this is the government and coalition, that should tell people what they will gain from it - and I am sure that they will gain significantly more than they lose. But if you don't want to do something, then every excuse is right, everyone. And, Minister, believe me, there will be no regions in this mandate. There will be no regions in this mandate. The way you did them, I'm sure you didn't. I am also sure that those who propose today three or four or five regions will have to say which one of the regions you will exclude. You'll have to tell. And Mr Kontic will have to say that Savinja-Salech can no longer be a region. He'll have to tell his constituents and voters. And I hope, Mr Kontic, that you will have so much of yours that I will not say anything that you will be able to tell people. If so, if you are so eloquent and say that what the previous government has proposed is not normal and is not the right solution and the regional distribution of this country is too numerous. Also sitting here on my left side, Miro Friday, I am sure that he will be able to always tell his people, from where he comes from, that he will do everything the Slovenian Democratic Party will also - for Koroška to have its region too. Therefore, dear fellows, he can be smart when it is necessary to find concrete solutions and propose concrete solutions and then there will be a problem. And when you clear up this dilemma, within the government and the government coalition, whose regions are removed from the list, then, believe me, there will be no problems to establish a region. No problems creating regions! But just as this government coalition is now functioning, the next twenty years will not come to a solution. Even the most crucial things you can't agree on how we can still negotiate such important strategic things as regionalisation of this country or -- I don't even know if you understand that. In my opinion, some certainly, some of them do, but most certainly don't. I am therefore convinced that the legislation proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is extremely serious, very responsible and realises that we still need a second level of local self-government in order for this country to develop in a coherent manner. However, we do not need the solutions proposed by Mr Jankovic, we do not need those that operate stadiums and malls with tax money. If that money were to be channelled to those costs that urgently need to be covered in order for the regions to function, this issue would simply be a matter of resolution. But the priority of this coalition, the priorities of this government go in the wrong direction. Indeed, they are puzzled by the basic logic of life. And believe me, citizens and citizens are already assessing the ability and quality of this power by means of surveys, and look, you should imagine if you haven't. I hope that what we have proposed today, and this day that we have spent here today, will be taught by the Government and this government coalition. That's what I'm saying in good faith. We in the Slovenian National Party have never claimed that we are not ready to talk and together with the government coalition to seek solutions when it comes to strategic solutions and the future of this country. We have supported everything this government has proposed positively in this mandate. All of it! Everything for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What we have proposed, in addition to all the measures we have proposed in the past, this year and a half, this project is equally valuable and we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is absolutely necessary. That is why, of course, I expect from this government that you will only try to convince your Members and Members that this legislation alone would be wise to support or to take it as a sample that could still be upgraded and improved, which is why you may be assessing that it is not the best written in this legislation. But I am sure that this legislation prepared by the previous government is far more than any government could have done. Since 1998, virtually nothing has been done but some studies. Except for the previous government that came with all the laws and quality prepared. If of the 210 congregations around 190 congregations supported this proposal from the fourteen regions, then, my dears, there can be nothing wrong with this proposal. So the proposal was professionally, qualitatively and perfectly prepared. But it was the political setup of those lobbying and those structures in this country that don't want to be decentralised. This is a key and only question and when you answer it in this government coalition, then there will be no problem with regionalisation in this country. I hope you understand what we wanted to say to you today in good faith and for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u173	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members. I tried to understand what you wanted or told me. Although I sometimes lost a red thread between thoughts that were decorated with parables or not parables. At the same time, in three minutes now, when I listened to the debate, it was said once that the province would not be adopted in this mandate, but in two or three minutes that the opposition had all the good government proposals so far and would also accept. How do we know our proposal will be bad? How do we know your proposal is the best? There is always a dilemma here, a dilemma exists between two parameters, between the population and economic power of the province and while adapting the local and regional needs and interests of the inhabitants. With regard to the first point, we can indicate an even more modest state apparatus or the price of the state administration of the second level of local self-government and, under the second point, an even greater connection of land and a common natural rounding. However, how to find out what is the best option to offer to Slovenes and Slovenes, or the best option around which we will coordinate, because we need to make it clear that we are not coordinated around the proposal we are discussing today. Therefore, once again, I repeat that the current government has set up or acceded to this proposal on an expert basis, established a strategic council, set up by the President of the Government, a strategic regionalisation council containing members, competent members in this area in the Slovenian space. The Strategic Council met three times, debated, presented a starting point for the optimal regionalisation of Slovenia and at the same time found that the final division of Slovenia is a political process. He gave professional backgrounds and found that the establishment of landscapes is a political process, which has become a major experiment in all these years. And it has been clear that we are saying that the previous proposal or this proposal that we are discussing today is not technically justified. It's not! The Strategic Council found that the proposed allocation to thirteen or fourteen provinces was not technically justified. The fact that Dr. Žagar is a doctor of technical science, that Dr. Gjerkesh is a doctor of technical science, that probably doesn't potentise one or the other proposal, which is what we're dealing with today, and the other one that we're going to be on a professional level in a while. No! No! It is important for someone to make strategic decisions, so former Minister Žagar, with whom, by the way, I also discussed this subject and we came to some very interesting conclusions. We are coordinators to get as best a proposal as possible, as best a professional justification as possible, from separation, to funding, to the transfer of competences. And the expert, strategic council established by the President of the current government has found that the division we are discussing today is not optimal. The argument that we have listened to for a long time, Dr. Chelan, and was given an argument that she is a member of the LDS, does not yet mean that she is correct and professionally optimal. She's one of the arguments. And when we met with the mayors at the All-Slovenian meeting on Brdo, there were several proposals made by the mayors, and I don't think the two were the same. This indicates the difficulty of a political decision on the membership of Slovenia. However, it does not show that professional division is not so problematic. We just need to be aware of it, we just have to accept it and start negotiating and seeking political will on the basis of professional starting points. I'd like to mention the following. It has been said on several occasions that cohesion funds or European cohesion policy will be much smoother if we have provinces. The provinces are not directly linked to European cohesion policy. For this we have statistical regions, we have NUTS2 and NUTS3 levels, so that, not in this financial perspective, nor in the next financial perspective, for which negotiations will soon begin, there will be no significant changes, even if we reach the provinces at this time. Last week, however, we received an interesting letter from Eurostat, where we are invited or advised to reduce 12 statistical regions to 4. This was non-binding advice, but it follows trends in European countries. We haven't answered yet. Let me finish. The fate of the province's legislation, and I hope that, when we discuss a coordinated proposal here, the arguments on your part will be the same. And I believe that if, of course, the proposal is harmonised, it will be the same. I have said many times today that I was very happy or that there was nothing to repeat today to discuss a coordinated proposal. However, the fate of Slovenia is not sealed by the failure to establish the provinces. For the fate of Slovenia and its inhabitants, it is essential that we make a quality law on coherent regional development that can contain as development institutions both the development institutions in the present statistical regions or in later regions or regions, if we break the landscapes more. And this law on coherent regional development will in any way be, and it will be very short because it is very necessary, as we have also found today when we spoke with representatives of the White Country and Kočevska. The situation is harsh, not only with them, but also elsewhere, in some other regions in Slovenia, and this is a project that is a top priority for the government at the moment. And this is a project, i.e. a bill to be tabled before parliamentary holidays, and this is also a proposal or project that we will have to discuss first. It also contains elements that are very recognizable, which, at least so, will be included in our proposal for provincial legislation and where it will be very clear and explicit that it does not matter at all how many provinces we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u175	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all those who insist here. I haven't received as many phone calls and e-mails in a long time as when a map of Slovenia to the provinces appeared in the media. Three variants and there was no Koroška anywhere. Koroška was found in two variants in some strange Savini region, an historical region, a disabled region, a non-professional region, a non-professional membership. Before the elections with Mr Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, my colleague Irma advocated that Koroška must be her province, Ravne must be the capital of Koroška. Interesting. I thought she'd already joined our client. That is exactly the position we have - where are her views now? Sit in the government, sit in the cabinet. Our law contains this province of Koroška. Dear Minister, I think it is better that you do not go with any membership in this National Assembly if it is not on this map of the Koro region. True, Koroška likes to know when we bring some colossal Olympics or if there is an affair to be exported to Koroška, or if Koroška is somewhere on the edge of our country and few are interested in it. It is also true that Koroška is a small region, we have already heard that today. That's 74,000 people. You have to ask yourself why Koroška is so small. 90 years ago we lost one of the most beautiful parts of Slovenian territory with plebiscites, and this year we will remember these events, and it is interesting that at that time the Slovenians were mostly for Austria, besides the Austrians, because they were afraid of Serbs. The second time we lost Koroška in 1945. Allied forces and partisans were already in Koroška, and the winners, they said, gave this part of Koroška back to Austria, which did not exist in some way at the time because it was an occupying force. It was then because Yugoslavia decided to go along the path of communism, not some democracy and a free market. From the historical point of view, Korošk must be an independent region, not to mention other reasons such as geographical roundness, such as some geographical isolation from the Huda Hole, not to mention that we are living in a marked traffic isolation. And if Koroška is not an independent province, then we will only talk about Koroška about another Quarantine, a historical myth. But we'll have a Korean country, Koroška on the other side of the border. And something like this Slovenia can't afford. This would be violence against the will of the Korošci, who decided at the referendum that the Koroška Region should be independent. The fact is that with what is now occurring in the public, this government is simply ignoring this province. We have laws for Prekmurje, we are talking about the development world for the White Krajina, we are adopting legislation on the capital of Slovenia, and Koroška as a region is somehow being abolished. The consequences of this government's policy are very great for Koroška. In February 2008, 2,690 people were unemployed in Koroška. February 2010 is 4,092. I understand the radio mayor's not here today. I think they cut off one of the Prevention factories in Radljah near Drava yesterday, and of course he's going to have a lot of trouble there. I also understand the Slovenian mayor that he's not here today. It must prevent those barons who have created property in Slovenj Gradc and now move it to various places and send workers to the road. I mean, the situation in Koroška is extremely serious, and if we had a province, it would be easier to manage this situation on its own. The railway, as long as it remains in Koroška, is slowly being phased out. Today I was called by the Cororian railroaders to cut off the railway connection from Prevalj to Pliberk. Of course, these passenger trains to Pliberk are not full, they are very empty rather than full. But this link is also important for freight transport. Metal Ravne builds a logistics centre in Pliberk, because there it receives land of 3 euros per square meter and this railway is extremely important for this company. The first year of power came in Koroška to abolish notaries, which we received after very difficult fighting - I am talking about Koroška, that narrow work, that is the Mežiška valley, Ravna in Koroška, of course the notary were two in Slovenia Gradec before - and as a coalition you also did not allow to get their judicial authority at Ravna. You said it was unjustifiable and you could still list it. In short, my vote as long as I am in this House will not be for any division of Slovenia into provinces where there will be no region of Koroška, and I tell you that you can count on any civil disobedience in Koroška if the ruling coalition pushes this province towards Celje, Maribor or anywhere else. Therefore, a modest suggestion: The government should turn off that light because at least Korosks do not benefit from this traffic light. Let him arrange his own circle of incompetence, Rondo, because he's still spinning around in his own circle of incompetence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u177	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'm glad we're still insisting on some, but we're talking to some, and the others are doing auuuu, auuuu, they're working there on the opposite side. I don't know if they have anything to say or what? All right, let's go to the dark. It bothers me in some way that we have practically no one in this room all day. LDS, really - no one's here! LDS and really, you're not. Thank you very much. [[...]] So, you're from the middle, but you're not from LDS and Really, I was thinking about them. Why? Because of what they have in the government, as if they were SD - after how loud they are, but they're loud about where the money is. It's important, and where someone needs to be put away, it's important. They're not here today. All right! Darkness: Our theme is landscapes and I do not create any illusions by allowing you to accept it and accept it; nor do I create a illusion by convincing someone, because I actually have no one to convince because there are five of you here from the coalition, and we will not vote and there will be no problems. But my performance is for the record and the public, that's all. Above all, to the record and to those who, I believe, will study once, some form of provincial legislation in the Slovenian space. But this is a relatively simple matter, so I'm going to be brief. In the previous term, we have drawn up this provincial legislation. No one is with much support from the mayors, I don't know who, with that referendum support in the eleventh or as many as 14th, but with opposition from the political party and the then opposition of the SD to the conviction, as you said you would make such legislation, which will be significantly better legislation, which will be more appropriate. We said at the time to give our amendment and if we reach agreement on the ground, we will also support your amendments. That didn't happen, but you pressed "no." Of course, we were waiting for this provincial legislation to come within the time limit you set yourself. And this one was somewhere in November of last year. This beautiful smart and good product, acceptable to all Slovenes, was not within the time limit you set yourself, so we put in our package, even perhaps counting on you not to support it, because that is how it is done. Today we offer this option, today this option, legislation can be put into another reading and complemented there with all of the solutions that you intend or see. But I'm afraid you can't see the solution, and that's why I believe in the minister's idealism and political reality. This is that the province will not be in this mandate, as the President of the Government of Pahor has already said that this topic is not the most important or priority topic in this mandate. This is not good for all those ends of our country that are lagging behind on those tables since the end of 2007. We have told you very clearly that if the development of Ljubljana at this time, I am talking about 2007, completely ceases, which is not in the interest of anyone in Slovenia at all, I believe, then the outermost areas such as Prekmurje, such as Zasavje, such as any other area, perhaps mine, will take 30 years and more to get there. My dears, this is half the life of a generation! I'm not sure that we have the right in the State Hall or that you have the right to interfere with people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u179	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Milan Chaddez.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I listened very closely to the Minister, and I was disturbed by the fact that many people were involved in the government project and that the Government approached the provincialisation of Slovenia with experts, but we still have nothing concrete on the table. I'm surprised the minister noticed during today that the debate of the motioners was decorated with ornaments. And I am very interested in what are the decorations of our debaters that we have proposed this legislation. I believe, too, that the thinking of the rulings is that citizens see only the costs of provincialisation. However, I must say that we have not seen such a carefully worked-out income and expenditure on the provinces and on all other government expenditure and revenue. I would ask the Minister why he came to our Group of Members at all, given that he has presented something quite different than that stated by Minister President Pahor. And given that the views of the Minister and the President of the Government differ, we know that these things do not go together. And I would also like to point out here that, at the beginning of the term, the Minister stressed that he would talk to the mayors a lot. Is it possible that he forgot that 87% of the support for the provincialisation of Slovenia is by the mayors. But apparently this argument that the Minister is referring to is very difficult to hear. Support for provincialisation by municipal councils is also very high. Again, it is a very difficult argument, but I believe that the Minister and the entire Government are very, very hard to hear. Yesterday in Kranj, we had a council of Gorenje mayors to start a procedure for the establishment of a regional tourism organisation, because the Ministry of Economy is calling for 400,000 euro for the next three years. And then we need to call on the council of mayors, given that we already have LTOs, we have TICs, we have other development agencies that are very successful, in every way another organisation, so that after three years of tendering, we can get quite a few funds. I would like to point out that the approach is completely wrong. We propose for the economic field, when the tasks are delegated, the adoption of an economic development programme that plans a policy to promote the development of tourism and entrepreneurship. Planning means systemic work. If we had a systemic work already in place, it would not be possible to run for funds just because the funds are being tendered. We work differently in the congregations. We see the need for a local environment, we make a project and then we run for invitations. This is just as it was during the time of socialism when a request came to the company and on the basis of a request the job opened. It's different today. Today a new product creates the need for a job and only then is there a call for new jobs. And this is definitely the wrong world. If we had the provinces and we were working systemically, we wouldn't first run for the funds we see. But I believe that today some in this temple of democracy can be good will and also smile. When I looked at the NSTA website at 17.58, it said, "White Landscape and Kočevsky's Development with Systemic Law." This means, below, a special law to remedy the development backlog. Those mayors who are members of the coalition will receive special system laws. Now I ask myself, is this the provincialisation of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u181	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. If there was a smile, I can say that there were also some witty statements in the hall, so he was justified in smiling. But it was also a bit of a humorous thing, but good, about these other times. Mr. Gorenak, you've been rolling nicely, but you'll need some more practice if you want to achieve something more with this. You taught us about history. It is right that every so long we put it back on in this House but that someone said that in 1945 after the NOB we lost any part of Slovenia on the northern border, does not go to Mr. Gorenak on you, I apologize for watching you, but it is a lie, and it is a grave lie! In 1945 Slovenia lost nothing at the northern border, but gained much elsewhere at the time of NOB. Yes, it is, but one part, Mr. Tanko. One part of this territory we have received, a considerable part that was previously under Italy. But the question is, where would the border be if the patriots won? That's a real question. That's a serious question. But you have principles of this subject, this time it is not the principles of me, nor any of the coalition types. I'm listening all afternoon to how few of us are on this side. Today we are forced to listen to legislation, and the proposals that have already been presented in Parliament a year and a half ago, and we are democratic and we are sitting here, we are listening and we are also giving our opinion. But those of you who are interested in proposing should be here more than you are. And it's always the best way to point your finger at others not to notice your shortcomings. I was warned that it would be difficult for me to explain to the electorate why there was no Savinja-Salenia province in the marriage. This has been warned by those who sat here in the previous term and are now no longer in Parliament. They seem to have misinterpreted to their constituents what they have been doing here for four years in this House. But well, if you remember, and perhaps some of you remember, I was the only opposition Member who voted in favour of your proposal to establish the provinces. The only opposition Member, I'm sure, Mr Gorenak, is reliable. Because I felt that there was a need to move forward in this area. And I look forward to your support for this proposal, which will be prepared by the Minister this time. He's ready in the grave. He's been introduced to you. But somehow this is illogical, when you say on one hand that the landscape will not be, but you have not yet defined yourself before this legislation, but at the same time you say that you support all the good proposals of the Government in this Parliament. Let us first see these proposals from the Government and then decide whether the proposals are good. I will tell you that I will be just as critical of these proposals as I was of the proposals you have proposed or proposed by Minister Žagar. And it would be unfair and unfair to say that Dr. Zhagar's former minister did not do much in this area. He did, a lot of work was done. However, certain changes need to be made now that they have been added, I will not say that the profession was not involved at the time, but that the additional scope of the experts is invited to participate and will most likely improve this legislation. First, we need to see what they are proposing, and then we need to assess it. I have also heard that regional development is in many ways linked to investments led by Mr Jankovic in Ljubljana. In recent days, I have also heard tragic news of one suicide. I hope Jankovic won't be guilty of this suicide and this investment now. But you've brought the story so far this time. There's probably something else to say about that. With regard to the province of Koroška, of course, it is right that Koroška strives for what they want. Of course, then it is the comparability of the landscapes and I do not have the face to say in Velenje that the Savinja-Salenia region does not meet the conditions. And so the story continues until the 14th, 15th, 16th, maybe even more landscapes. But this is a matter of agreement that we're going to have to make in the next period. However, I have heard criticism from the Government that Slovenia would be different in this crisis if we had provinces. That's what I even think would be different. But linking this with European funds is not correct, because the minister also said that it has no direct connection with the use of European funds, readouts, funds from Slovenian taxpayers that we pay in the Brussels cash register. It is the success of drawing and it is the fact that we have statistical regions that need to participate more effectively. And this is the division for funds from the European Treasury. And it is true that the Better Regional Development Act needs to be amended. It must be changed urgently because we are facing great problems. I spoke of one of them recently here in the National Assembly, about the regional development agency in Celje and its privatisation or expulsion of the property of the municipalities within this RRA and the establishment or transfer of powers to others. It will indeed be necessary to examine very carefully what the competences of the RRAs are and what their role is. But as for all the comments that have been and some like to repeat, today I have heard new that the government is developmentally impotent. This was a new conclusion today in this hall. It's, like, one diagnosis of someone's medical condition. But believe me, I would leave this diagnosis to doctors, we even have one in our ranks, even today at this point. These diagnosises may also be different, but we should really leave them to doctors to deal with this. I am also quite a pessimist in this area, because let me not believe in these sincere purposes and predictions, and I know that the minister and his colleagues will have great difficulties when he represents his laws. And you're telling us to coordinate coalitionly. We are on track to be coalitionly coordinated if we are not fully coordinated in the coalition. But of course this is not yet guaranteed that Slovenia will receive the provinces. You, too, have been well-collective, except for two individuals. I think there was agreement in the coalition on provincial legislation. But it didn't work because we need 2/3 of the audience, because it's embedded in the security system in establishing the provinces that requires 2/3 of the Members present. This has been enshrined in the Constitution, realizing that otherwise we would not have changed the Constitution in this Article. And in this way we passed on taking responsibility for some other time, a slightly distant future. But the problems remained, as I said. And it will be difficult to reach consensus, because much broader than this coalition has, and it has had a previous coalition in its previous term. But I do want us here to overcome this political division and decide for a better regional development, for the good of the decentralisation of Slovenia, and I hope that we will find here a common denominator, or a minimum, that will lead us to really be able to establish the provinces. And talk about the costs of landscapes, landscapes, decentralisation. Of course it's a cost. Of course it's a cost. But in the past, I've heard that this is a financial neutral operation. Of course it doesn't. It is not a financial neutral operation and it is difficult to expect because additional costs will arise. But these additional costs will go into lease if the whole of Slovenia has more if we have better development if we have more consistent development. And I agree with you when you say democracy costs. Of course it does. The easiest and the cheapest would be if we didn't have a parliament, we wouldn't have a government, we wouldn't have anyone. But can you imagine living in a country without it? The provinces will also require additional costs, but these costs are justified if they bring added value. I agree with that, and we can share that knowledge. I look forward to a good proposal that will receive the widest possible support and, in this way, the possibility of moving something in this area. In 2006, we changed the Constitution, now is the time to introduce what we have written into the Constitution. For the provinces have been a constitutional category since 2006, a matter that has been enshrined in the Constitution, and this must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u183	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u184	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm a member of this government, and it's hard to talk about. But firsthand, I can say that this government is not indeveloped, not otherwise impotent, to the contrary. I don't want to hear from you anymore because we've said a lot today. I think we've said important things to each other, but at a time when I wasn't in the hall, there was an observation about today's meeting of the development world for the White Land. The title of the STA "To the development of the White Krajina and Kočevsky with the Systemic Law" should also be read carefully and read the content, where the third paragraph reads: "By Gjerkesh's words, they agreed that the intervention law, following the example of the special law for Pomurje, was not a suitable solution for the White Krajina and Kočevsko." He goes on to say: "We agreed that the new regional development policy instruments in the system law would be able to carry out tasks in the same way or better than any specific intervention law." And that is why, honourable Members, I have been gone for more than three hours today. Not that I was not in favour of adopting any special intervention law, but that I explained the quality and basis of the draft new system law on coherent regional development. And representatives from the White Land and Kočevský listened to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. It's not the sixth attempt to set up a system-wide landscape, but it's the second attempt. In the previous term, we had one comprehensive approach with a package of provincial legislation in a set, which was presented in two parts with a two-month delay. We are now dealing with this for the second time with one comprehensive approach and with all the material necessary to deal with it. As I recall, in the previous term this was one of the fundamental conditions, which was why the opposition was building its opposition to this province's legislation, which was submitted because it was not complete because it was not together because it was not in the package because it was not transparent. Today you have all the necessary provincial legislation on the table: from elections, the general law on the provinces, the financing of the provinces and also the entire package of all those powers, tasks that would be transferred from the state level to the provinces. The Minister said earlier in his debate, in the same way he is torn apart by neither, nor perhaps any member of ours, who had previously criticized him very much when he said he was waiting for the strategic world to tell its solutions. Yeah, look at the magnetogram. So the strategic world is meeting, the solutions are supposed to be proposed because they are not yet harmonised, and you are speaking at the same time that you have all the legislation prepared. You don't have one. You've come to our parliamentary group, the distinguished minister, to tell you that you have three options, I'll also deliver you, if necessary, the documentation you gave us, 3, 6 or 8. And you said that in the coalition about the number you are not coordinated and then you will go to other opposition parties to discuss the division of Slovenia. That's what happened. And from the responses of the parliamentary groups, including opposition groups, we see that these matters are somehow not harmonised. The national party has its own vision and its own view, and the Slovenian People's Party is in fact identical as proposed now in this package. Thus, it is necessary to be precise. As far as the law on coherent regional development is concerned, we have it. This marriage is also quite solid. I know because I was also mayor for a time, two terms, and I carried it out. However, the fundamental problem with this law is that it does not meet the financial conditions. Under this law, 1.5% of GDP should be allocated to coherent regional development. I would like to know the number of the Minister-in-Charge, but how much the Government is actually devoting to coherent regional development. Is that 1.5% of GDP or not? I'm sure it's not a few times less than 1.5% in marriage. And that's a fundamental problem. We can write any improvements, any substantive corrections, if the basic condition is not met, and this is the provision of sufficient funding for the implementation of the law on coherent regional development, none of which will be necessary. And there will still be a need for separate approaches, for different development councils and for special laws such as the Capital Law or the Law on Development Assistance to the Pomur region. It won't be any different. Without money, nothing happens in this country and elsewhere in the world. I ask the following question: If we had established provinces, for example, in the previous term, would we receive today such a letter from the mayor of Maribor? We've all received this letter. It wonders and protestes because the construction of the Oreh Economic Centre in Podravje is deleted from the resolution on basic development programmes for the period 2007-2023. If we had a central Styrian province, which is envisaged, with a seat in Maribor, this would certainly not happen. If they had a lower landscape, it certainly would not have happened that the southern leg of the third development axis would have been lined. I'm sure that wouldn't have happened. If we had another province, this would not have happened to the third A developmental axis, because this would have been the basic task of this province, this would not have happened to the fourth development axis, because this would have been a fundamental task of the primary interest of this region. However, since this is at government level because it is decided on Gregorčič, and the coalition is blindly following this, such deletions of basic projects are taking place. Even a large economic centre would not have been deleted if, for example, it were under the jurisdiction of a particular province, nothing fatal would have happened in this respect in Posavje either in Koroška or elsewhere. But because it's what it is, these things happen. And if we want to maintain or maintain coherent regional development, if we want to build around these cores, which are defined as basic programmes, the basic points of development of the entire province, then we need to introduce the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. Before we introduce them, we will stop dealing with such letters and problems that they tell us from the great Slovenian cities. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Not from the Osilnica Congregation, but from Maribor. [[...]] This is the fundamental problem of all these delays that the coalition has enjoyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u187	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u188	Let me get back to you last night. I must say that the experience in this House is very interesting and instructive. After one and a half years of this Member's office, I have noticed that these benches are very full when we are talking about same-sex couples, about these rights when we are talking about the rights of the deleted, these two topics will also be well filled in at this meeting, according to the February meeting of the National Assembly, which is now taking place in the first week of March. We were very loud when we were talking about the resolution in the European Parliament, we were talking about patriots, we were talking about post-war killings, about one other topic, about the Udba. We spoke very passionately about the compatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. I can say that these are topics that are truly ideological themes, topics around which, even today, the words of many Members of Parliament have been very quick to translate, and themes that are more or less shared by the Slovenian people into two genders, are getting deeper and deeper and there is an attempt to create a border between people. However, it is also true, fellow Members, that all these starting points and in some ways most of them are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty and also some of the solutions to be implemented in this mandate. It is very small and cheap in terms of regional development as well as regionalisation. Dear colleague, who is the leader of the largest parliamentary group! I'm afraid we don't all create together, k and here we should certainly do even more of the coalition than we do, some constructive atmosphere in the National Assembly, so that we can talk strategically about such topics. And the topic that we are talking about today is unfortunately very few of us interested in this topic, a topic that is very crucial for how Slovenia will develop further. I am firmly convinced that already in the use of European funds, it is very important if we had the provinces, especially the provincial mentality, we would have a group of municipalities, and even though it brings together 70,000 people, it knows what it wants and therefore wants to make effective use of European funds. It will be very difficult for you to convince me that the collapse of the third development axis project is not related to the fact that we have no provinces in Slovenia. I am confident that as long as the spatial document for the third development axis is adopted, it will depend on each municipality individually, ultimately also dependent on the Ministry of Environment and Space, such a spatial document in Slovenia will not be implemented. I have said it myself, this project crosses Koroška, Savinja, Celje, Zasavska, Posavska, Lower Region and in this part I would give a very clear recipe if we had the provinces. The province, which will be first able to prepare documentation, to adopt such projects at some regional level, would also be entitled to these funds. No one is likely to want too much to be spent on this axis, and in the end it will be a very convenient excuse to have no spatial documentation. Today, economic centres and projects related to the non-economic development of this country were mentioned here. I cannot agree with the fact that today we have heard that Europe requires four statistical regions from us. I come from one of the statistical regions that shares a similar fate, as already mentioned here by colleague Friday, Koroška. Also, Posavje is deleted on this map and simply is gone. Since I have been the mayor of the municipality of Krško for 11 years, which is the largest municipality, and we are also giving some kind of economic boost along with the other municipalities in this area, let me tell you that we have managed to bring the Faculty of Logistics into this area with our own initiative and resources, together with the Municipality of Velenje, together with the Municipality of Velenje to establish the Faculty of Energy, they are establishing the Faculty of Tourism in Brežice. Why? Because in this we see our fields, our fields of development, and we are aware that something needs to be done on this level. We have established the Scholarship Foundation, which is the first in Slovenia. Today, this concept has been taken over by the Social Fund and most of this scheme is implemented by European funds in Slovenia. In this space, we managed to get together when a sewage project was needed, that via pre-accession statements and ISPA resources we built a sewage network and a cleaning plant. We are now working together in the framework of cohesion for water systems and similar matters. I am convinced that at this size of Slovenia is certainly a place of such a landscape, that it can find its place on the map of Slovenian landscapeisation and that this development vision can also be pursued further. I hear several times from these benches that Posavje was privileged in the previous term. There are a lot of things flying around here at the expense of the former Minister of Economic Affairs. Let me put up a thesis, but maybe it was a privilege. What's happening to us now? What's happening to us in the last year and these days? In the field of energy, where we were a region that was able to adopt its own concept, which went along with the flood protection of Posavje to place hydropower plants. This week we received information from the Ministry of Environment and Space with the new minister, while some people in this ministry have been doing this persistently for some time now, I think they have finally succeeded, which is suddenly a hydroelectric project that no longer has a place, a project for which too much resources and similar things have already been spent in the past. It is interesting that at this time some other projects are placed very quickly in Slovenia in the field of energy and that projects such as the renewables project, which is already being paid for at a certain time, are now suddenly inappropriate. I'm talking about one case. I could count a few more. I think what I'm saying right now in the case of my own country, which, according to some people, was privileged at one point, I can now calmly say that at this point the stars are not showing us very well. I think that in the Slovenian space there should be some objective criteria, for example, in roads, by miles of roads, in some other matter by other objective criteria, criteria for development, to do what is necessary to divide this bargaining public funds into landscapes, and that these regions take over their economic development. Trust me, on the basis of the experience I have, I have been participating all these years, sometimes more successfully, sometimes less successfully with the ministry. I am firmly convinced, and with all credibility, I can say that these administrations, which are closer to people, the administrations, where you meet people every day and these directly without any blindness happening here in Parliament, as is happening through the ministries, are knocking on their sleeves and asking you where is the project, what is the life span of this project, when it will be done, so that these projects, which I have talked about and exceed the level of small municipalities, will be made more quickly in Slovenia and will make great progress. However, I am afraid, as I have already started this debate, that we have brought even Slovenia in Slovenia at this time, not only in this area, to a blind street, especially in this project, which needs the support of 2/3 Members and Members to come through. We all know how it went in the previous term. How many circles were made at the level of the coalition - the opposition. During all this time, I must say that it is simple, apart from this one visit that the Minister made after the parliamentary groups, to have some coordination, there were no opinions. And I fear that, in the end, this project will be doomed to failure because of any political account. Therefore, even after today's debate, after I know that this is a project that needs a few years of hard work and a great political determination to accept it, I am a very great skeptic myself. I have already mentioned several times that it might also be worth considering scenario and plan B. The Minister, your predecessor, at the hearing I asked if she also had a plan B, because my assessment was already in the hearing that the project of regionalisation would not be implemented in this mandate, because there is not enough political readiness for this project. That is why I think it would be very good for you to consider at work how developing regions should develop, how development should be done by those who have something to do with this development and have already contributed to the development of individual landscapes through their work so far. I'm afraid that this approach, when you probably need it for quite some time, I don't know how much in the coalition to finally present this project to us, given all the things that are clear to you, not just us, as regards the individual environments, where certainly also due to the experience with the neighbouring environments that we have, some other concept, such as that of seeing certain landscapes on the map, will be very difficult to accept. That is why I must say that, at the conclusion of this session today, I am a great pessimist for the landscape project and I hope that I am wrong in this pessimism.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The minister, Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš, asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you. Dear President! Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I didn't mean to call back, but I have to respond to a statement that was made a little earlier. It is true that with the multitude of thoughts I have spoken today, the incorrect use of the finisher may have sneaked away, but the strategic world has completed its work with its third regionalisation meeting. I think that's what I said, but I'm allowing the possibility of lapsus. And so the expert bases are ready. I have also shown these professional backgrounds in the first-round parliamentary groups. And it is true that I also showed the SDS Group, as you said, a variant of 3, 6 or 8 provinces. But I did propose six provinces at the end. And I also said that the coalition was coordinated on this. Because I didn't go to see you before the coalition. You know very well that there was an interval when I was on the last Coalition Group of Members and when I came to the Group of Members to see you. The reason for this interval was that we waited for the coalition to be harmonised. So it is not true that the coalition is not harmonised on the proposal. And it is not true that there are no professional grounds. Another claim was that the law on coherent regional development was solid and that it was good. I don't know if we're talking about the same country, but if not the other country, we can say that the law on coherent regional development that we have now is not optimal if I gently express myself. And this has been taking place especially now in a time of economic and financial crisis, because the differences between the provinces or regions, we do not yet have the landscapes, I apologize, once again the lapsus, have increased. This is why we have an intervention law for Pomurje, which is why I have been talking today and we have set up a development council for the White Country, which is why we expect an initiative from another area where the situation is poor and the differences are increasing. According to the government's assessment and the objective observer's assessment, the law on coherent regional development, which we now have, is not optimal and needs no amendment, but needs completely new instruments of regional policy. And these instruments must be dynamic, these instruments must adapt to the situation, because the situation is also dynamic. We will not be in crisis all the time, there will not be a province under the gross domestic average of Slovenia, not some province will have an average number of unemployed all the time, but these parameters will change. So regional policy measures will also change. These are the designs of the new modern law on coherent regional development. The claim that the third development axis has failed or is exempted from these development plans is not true, as we were talking about it today. We have just adopted today a decision to prioritise the acceleration of activities in this project. However, if space takes so long and so long for us, if so long and so long as it takes to acquire construction permits, to acquire land, we cannot do so. The government cannot promise that the third development axis will be built there in 2012. However, it can promise to speed up immediately those procedures that are already in progress and have already accelerated or begun those procedures that have not yet begun. The same is true of economic centres. These economic centres are not the victims of this government. Economic centres are the victims of the crisis. At the time the economy overheated, there were many partners for a public-private partnership in economic centres. Now that there's little money, she's not ready for that kind of cooperation. It's a good idea, but it's a bad time. And I think that healthy cores, even if not in the form of economic centres, will survive. Those who are not healthy will not be healthy under better economic and economic conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Would you like a word as a proponent, Mr. Marijan Pojbič? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. All those you want to discuss, sign up. Both reported have 5 minutes of time available. Milan Chad, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Since it is the debate that has brought them to the development axes and on the proposal to delete development projects, we know that there are also four or five to delete in this proposal. The fourth development axis itself has only €100,000 in the development programme plan by 2013. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister: How do you now look at the fourth development axis, this connection from Ljubljana via Medvod, Škofje Loka, Poljanska Valley and further north Primorska? I wish you'd answer that one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u193	Mr. Minister, you have five minutes to respond. But I, my respectable colleague and cousin Chad. But, well, I can't. Please, Joze Tanko has the floor. [[The ad in the hall.]] The Minister will answer if he wants to answer. Please, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you very much. All right, well, let's make it official.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u195	It's nothing arbitrary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u196	In fact, we keep asking ourselves whether the project is a political project of the province, whether it is a professional project or whether it will be a project intended for those who live in these rounded areas and want to do something about it. This is a fundamental question. If this is just an expert project, then one plot of Slovenia, if it is a political one, can be another, but if we are working on a project in order to have something cohesive, connected in a circular area and to try to make something happen, then it is necessary to look at this project slightly differently. It is not just a technique, it is not just a vote, it is not only a political interest and so on, but it is necessary to look at the matter slightly differently. And all this process of checking how many provinces were also carried out in the previous mandate. We have come up with a number higher than what you have proposed, you speak on the basis of professional proposals. We have not only taken professional proposals into account. We have also taken account of others, including mayors of municipal councils, including other institutions that perform in these environments. Once again, if I had the provinces set up, then there would not be a protest letter in the National Assembly, such as today's protest letter from the mayor of Maribor, protesting against the risk of deleting the Oreh development project in Podravje, which is linked to some EUR 100 million of development funds or landscape funds. Nor would they have faced the problem of the mayors of Bela Krajina and Kočevska, that some of the projects included in the resolution on the development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2007 - 2023 would have been preserved in some way, if not in the resolution, in some other special way. This translation of projects, when things move, are deleted from a system act, and then after some bypasses with some parallel solutions they try to keep alive, it's not a concept, it's not a solution, it's not an approach that inspires some hope and gives us that we're accompanying, and it's also an opportunity to say that it's a systemic solution. Look, you said earlier that you were at a meeting of an area. I also asked you why one part of this area fell out. The three congregations visited by the Government during its visit in February have fallen out of your call. You have visited the Ribnik-Kočev region and the White Krajina, February of the month, and then you are in Semič, if I am not mistaken, is the President of the Government, and perhaps even earlier in Kočev, said out loud that he would take some step forward in this sense. And from those you've visited, you've written off some of them. There are also development problems and problems. And such an approach is certainly not comprehensive. In fact, it is also a major problem in this country that, for various reasons, we adopt some laws, systems and special, we devote some budget to these laws, such as the Harmonised Regional Development Act, which should have 1.5% of GDP in financial resources, and then we do not realize this through the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. The same can happen with the Law on Development Assistance to the Pomur region. The only untouchable thing in this concept is the Municipality of Ljubljana. The municipality, which has far the largest per capita budget, which has far the most concentrated infrastructure per capita, is far from the largest recipient of funds from the state budget beyond the call for proposals. The state buys him castles, gives him funds, the coalition makes amendments and so on. This is not a systemic approach. [[....]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] I think it would be better if this law of ours, which provides for 14 provinces, 13 plus 1, were adopted in the form presented and that I was then possibly trying in this process. [[...]] [[....]] [[Digging up the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-05-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'm afraid the time has run out. Minister, is there anything else you'd like to answer? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. That's what everybody got their word on. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision as to whether a proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Monday, 8 March 2010, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 14th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 8 March 2010, at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
