ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Urh, Andrej Vizjak by 2 p.m. and Iztok Podkrižnik. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. POINT OF THE DAY - OTHER REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CAPITAL INVESTIGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Are we expecting the Minister of Finance or are you going to explain? I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u2	Your Honor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. By July 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had adopted a government-owned enterprise management policy and had started the process of reshaping the existing corporate governance system of state-owned enterprises. The weakness of the current management system is mainly in the large fragmentation of investment management across different ministries, where sectoral policies are formulated and ownership is managed, which causes conflicts of interest, intransparency and inefficiencies between individual investment managers, inefficient and under-expert management and complex decision-making processes at multiple levels with regard to the exercise of ownership rights in companies. The proposed Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia removes these deficiencies. The purpose of this Act is to establish an investment management system in accordance with the principles of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability without the influence of policies and individual stakeholders. Regarding the proposal for a law, a public presentation was made of the opinions held on 19 March 2010 and presented the objectives and basic solutions of the proposed law. In its public presentation of the opinions, the section clearly drew attention to the open dilemmas and answered questions about the purpose of setting up an agency that was appropriate in the event of a clear definition of responsibility. The proposed law follows this and clearly lays down the responsibility of the National Assembly as the substantive creator of the Capital Investment Management Strategy, the Government as the creator of its implementation and the Agency as the technical contractor of the decisions thus taken. Capital investment management methods are clearly defined and a clear and transparent country capital investment management system will be established. The result of the public presentation was to supplement the draft law with additional amendments, by which the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy formulated an additional proposal for a law. On the basis of this, we believe that the objective of the proposed law, which is to separate the performance of the ownership function from other functions of the State, has been achieved. In managing investments, it is extremely important to manage them economically, in the public interest, on the basis of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability, and to pursue objectives designed in line with sectoral policies. And the responsibility for these remains with the departmental ministries. The bill before us is not important because of the need for better regulation of the area concerned, but also because of the efforts of the Republic of Slovenia to join the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The OECD principle of corporate governance and the OECD Guidelines for the Management of State-owned Enterprises have been very important and taken into account in the drafting of legislation in this area. Your Honor! Allow me to focus before the end on the amendments that you will decide on today. The key red thread of the proposed amendments is the deletion of the provisions on the Agency and the transfer of competence to manage capital investments at the Ministry of Finance. The proposed amendments have a significant impact on the basic concept and have already repeatedly highlighted the purpose of the law, which is a consistent separation of ownership from the governance functions of the State. The adoption of these amendments would mean a departure from the objectives of transparent and independent capital investment management and the Government does not support the implementation of these amendments. We propose that the National Assembly support the proposed law in the form set up by the Home Committee in the amended text of the law. We also propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Bogdan Čepič for presentation of the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you, President, for your word. Greetings from the Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and fellow Members. The Committee considered the draft law at its 15th session. 3. 2010 and 16th session 8. 4. 2010 The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to each article and most of the comments are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The proposed law was also tabled by the SDS Group of Members. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the State Council and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which, due to some concerns of the law submitted, do not support. At its 15th meeting, the Committee decided, before the second reading of the draft law on a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, that a public presentation of the draft law should be carried out. The most important question was whether the proposed establishment of a capital investment management agency was indeed the most efficient and cost-effective solution or how capital investment management would be best suited for Slovenia. The public presentation of the opinions took place on Friday, 19. 3. In addition to the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance also participated. Mitja Gaspari, Minister without Resor, Dr. Rajko Pirnat, Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, mag. Marco Pogačnik, mag. Marjan Cerar, SDS expert council, and Bogdan Čepič, Member of the National Assembly. In a public presentation of opinions, the Section did not, in any event, participate and publicly present the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Group as a proposal for a presentation, highlighted the dilemma and answered the question of the purpose of setting up an agency that is appropriate in the event of a clear definition of responsibility. And some of the findings were taken into account and incorporated into the law. The second reading of the bill was carried out by the Committee at its 16th session, on 8.4.2010. In an additional explanation for the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service specifically pointed out that the comments to Article 37 of the law concerning the Human Resources and Accreditation Council as a body whose establishment and powers are not governed by law, but by a sub-law, the decision of the Government. In doing so, the Service drew attention to the legal system’s dispute over the regulation in order to raise the law’s individual decision to the level of the legal provision. The representative of the service further presented the position on several issues already raised regarding the application of the term "agency" to the body established by the law. According to the current regulation, there are at least five different types of public-law entities named by this concept, whose use would be uniform in the long term due to the legal system problems caused by them. However, this can only be addressed in the context of amending the legislation of public administration, not in individual laws, such as the proposed legislative proposal. This defines the purpose of setting up an agency and the issue of its legal personality is resolved already in the event that it is identified as a direct budgetary user. In the debate on individual articles, the Committee first drew attention to the provision of Article 1 of the proposed law and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to delete the establishment of the Agency. The Committee also discussed the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to Article 11, on the basis of which it is to be clearly stated in this Article that the Agency is an independent and independent State body which, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, corresponds to the National Assembly and that it is subject to public financial rules unless otherwise provided for in this Act. On the basis of the proposals put forward in the debate, the Committee adopted its amendments to the amendments of the coalition groups by 29, 30, 31 and 37 in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the framework of the definitions for the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors either did not accept or did not define themselves because they had become irrelevant due to the decisions taken by the Committee. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted are included in the supplementary draft law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee which you have received as material for this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 13th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a new review of the amendments tabled on 19.4.2010. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Anybody want to sign up? I'm guessing there's no desire to discuss it. Since no one wants to debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 21, for 26. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 9, since the amendment to Article 9 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Articles 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 25, to the amendment number 1 to 29, to Article 35, Article 36, Article 37, Article 40, Article 42 and Article 43. So I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the following substantively related articles and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Yes, please report. The word and Franco Yuri. Please. He's checking out. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! I also support the objectives pursued by this proposal, which is in particular the principle of transparency. The question to be asked is whether the agency is a suitable status form. I have to say that I have not, either from the public presentation of opinions or from the general debate, found or answered the questions or why the establishment of an agency is the right solution, what are the advantages and what is the added value. In our view, the establishment of an agency would only transfer the responsibility of the owner, that is, the state or government, to the so-called independent institution. The debate said that if it is no longer possible for the Prime Minister to come to the director of this agency. Say, and he says, now we're going to sell this and that property, but he's going to decide on it by a so-called independent body or world that has, I think, five members, and an accreditation council with seven members. We ask ourselves, I ask myself, who is actually the Prime Minister. Isn't that the person who is supposed to have the most confidence and who has a competent team in his office? Isn't that usually the president of a party that won a relative majority in the elections? No, in your opinion, this is not independent and cannot manage the state's property. They should be independent of the experts who run this agency. I imagine it about as if I were to put my assets in the hands of someone else, but I would not have a decisive word in my possession. I am of the opinion that only the owner is responsible for his assets. Otherwise, it can be placed in the management or disposal of someone else, but of course it is solely responsible to the owner. I myself will support the solution proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, namely to manage and dispose of capital investments in the Public Property Directorate within the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, this property should be the responsibility of the Government, which is committed at the same time to respect all positive legislation in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u8	Today's law, I hope that we will finally adopt it today, represents the first step, the first stage of corporate reform, the reform of corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. As a social democrat, you are much more promising than this law, precisely because of the dilemma created by the amendment, which we are now discussing with all the link to other amendments, which in fact point to this fundamental dilemma and the difference in views between the Government, the coalition and the opposition. Why is the Agency as an independent public authority and not the Public Finance Directorate within the Ministry of Finance? If we can't find any other reasons, let's say that the head of the directorate for public property with a simple decision is named by one person. On the other hand, the Council and the three-member administration of the Capital Investment Management Agency shall appoint this National Assembly by a minimum of 46 votes. Such a concept of appointing the Agency's authorities clearly points to our ambition to prevent such or other political purchases of political influence on this agency from being employed in the capital investment management agency. Another time. For the reason that this agency has very clearly defined powers in the law, it is primarily preparing a capital investment management strategy, which will then be dealt with in a democratic and transparent manner in the National Assembly. Through this strategy, the State, as owner, must finally define the answer to that question, which has remained unanswered for 20 years, and that is what the State, the Republic of Slovenia, wants to achieve as owner with some of its assets. Of course, not only do we want to pursue some financial gains in the form of dividends to fill the state budget, but we want to pursue what development, economic, social and environmental impacts as a community in state-owned enterprises. The absence of adequate strategic governance of state-owned enterprises is evident. Hours and hours could be discussed today in cases of businesses which are precisely because the country as owner was anemic throughout the whole period, but we have greater or smaller exacerbations during this period. Personally, I am deeply convinced that these exacerbations and some escapade of poor management cases have taken place in the past mandate and have been addressed by a number of state-owned enterprises, including those that have been the recent example of good companies, and today we are accompanying them with bold letters in the headlines of the articles on criminal investigations into the management and management of these companies. In this respect, it seems to me that it is crucial that we really answer this question with soundness of mind. As a social democrat, I want this law to realize ambition and prove that the country can be a good business owner; that privatisation of state-owned enterprises may be better only if the state cannot manage its assets well. That is why it is so important that, through this law, by consistently implementing the principles enshrined in this law, we prove that the country can be a good owner of businesses. And to this end, in the next debate following the adoption of the strategy, we make clear what we understand as the strategic investments of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian economy, what constitutes that development backbone which must also actively draw the economic circle forward during the crisis. In this respect, in my firm belief, the Agency is ensuring the independence of management, while the Directorate is under the influence of every single minister, subject to a wide-ranging political influence. I think it will be very important for the success of this law that we all integrate and apply together the principles and values enshrined in this law. And in this respect, it seems to me that someone may oppose the agency and the concept, as pursued by the coalition, because he knows that the new way of corporate governance of state assets in state-owned enterprises prevents cases that we have clearly seen in the past and where an exposed political influence, which has not been followed by political responsibility, has represented a place of severe weakening of these companies at the end of a severe weakening of public interest as well. This is precisely the question that sets out the framework that we must give today's final weight. I am going to vote against all the proposed amendments, because I think that the law, as it has evolved through a very dynamic debate, is also a good law at the last meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy; but now it is in the National Assembly to exercise this political responsibility and to remove the policy from the economy, but at the same time not to remove the country from the economy, but to make the country through the agency, through the expert opinion on what is smart governance, what are the objectives of an individual company, what development ambitions we want to achieve with state assets in state enterprises, we are shaping this. Political responsibility has so far been understated, even in very clearly demonstrated cases, when important companies representing a sales policy for Slovenian goods throughout the entire Western Balkans have very, very clearly avoided political responsibility. Today, the National Assembly has the opportunity to show, by the establishment of an independent capital investment management agency, that we are serious about withdrawing policy from the economy, but - once again - not at the same time from the country's withdrawal from the economy. As some will certainly have a long and wide discussion of how the capital investment management agency represents the expansion of public administration in the future, it is appropriate to clearly reject this at the outset. Our government has already followed the concept that such new agencies need to be filled with existing human resources within the public administration. This is also a concept for this agency: without expanding the public administration to achieve better focus and synergies among employees who are already in charge of capital investment management within the public administration. I myself will be happy to support this law with pride that we come to this important milestone in the time of our government, and not least because I firmly believe that in all of the much stigmatised debates in the national interest in this country, one of the key interests of our national sovereignty is also the issue of our economic identity, and this economic identity must again be protected by the country as responsible owner of businesses during this difficult time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is not possible for the President to say very clearly at the outset that we will in fact discuss only one amendment, and this is the amendment to Article 9. I would suggest that this part be clarified before the debate continues because I believe that the last two amendments have nothing to do with Article 9. I think that the amendments to Articles 42 and 43 should be discussed on their own. So this law, which we have for some time on the agenda of the National Assembly, is the final conclusion of the so-called 'admission', which began somewhere in 1992 and continued intensively throughout all the following mandates. It is now necessary to have the final ownership of those who have lost power in one transitional period for four years, even what remains. It is true, however, that what remains is not so small and that it is mainly the fundamental strategic investment of this country, that it is a huge asset, but, of course, because of the economic and economic conditions of the last year and a half, the value of this property has decreased significantly. And if some in recent years have already owned individual systems, let's say that I should mention only those in the media field, the Work, the Evening, now some others in the same political field will do so again on the basis of this law or on the basis of any other law, but at a significantly lower price. And because I know that in today's debate it will also be mentioned about the shares that have been sold by the Soda and Kato in the past years in a food chain called Mercator, this sale will now take place at a significantly lower price and will obviously come into the right hands this time, so that there will be no need to discuss this in this National Assembly, not elsewhere. Because in this law it is only a matter of policy appointing agencies, both the world and the administration, even the National Assembly, and then they will decide independently from the sales policy. On the basis of the strategy, where it will not be specifically defined, how, how and by whom and on the basis of the Government's plan. For this reason, we have proposed that this story should at least work transparently, if it is already done, in such a way that those who make decisions - in any event, these will be political decisions, not blinded, the strategy will be a political decision - to take responsibility as well. In this case, there will be no responsibility, for those who will be placed at these responsible places in the agency will have extremely broad powers and no political or other responsibilities. The law was initiated because it was found in the OECD that Slovenia does not have the most appropriate means of managing assets, because the management of this property is alloted at several levels: Kad, Court, Ministry of Finance, Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and so on. The OECD recommendations or principles speak of countries having to ensure that the management and management of this property is transparent, predictable, efficient and responsible. Nowhere is it written that a state must set up an agency for such a purpose, a parastatal institution, even more. It follows from the Government's comparative review that this model, which is proposed here in Slovenia, is rather unique as a rule. And that many countries that are already part of the OECD have these things arranged in a different way, in such a way that the principle of responsibility of every political elite entrusted to the administration of the State and thus the responsibility to manage state assets is fully established. And for this reason, of course, we have proposed a solution; it could also be another one that, in our view, would ensure that this responsibility would happen in an appropriate manner and follow all these principles that international organisations require of us. During the period of this government, we are witnessing that red tape is growing in various segments, that the cost of managing the country is increasing rather than the opposite. And one of these cases is this new capital investment management agency, and it has to be said that the term is misleading, of course, because in this law it is very clear what management means. Managing means everything, exclusive availability of sales, so to speak, sales, purchases, exchanges will take place within this agency based, of course, on a general strategy, but it must be said, those who say that we have this strategy for quite some time. The previous government has set up these things and has divided all the investments it has as a country into, simplified, three: one has handed over those that are not strategically important and which are wisely sold when the maximum price is reached, the other has handed over those that are not, but must wait for the sales to be improved. And the third drawer of this investment is one that speaks of what is important to the country so much that it is not wise to sell it. This strategy has been adopted since 2005, at the time of the Janša government. So I don't know what some people here are talking about today that there was no strategy, that it was done domestically. Nothing was done at home during this period! It was very clear the rules of the game, but indeed in some times when one of these para-State institutions was headed by the Management Board, I think that Slovenian compensation companies, your new European bureaucrat, Mr Milan M. Zvikl, sold several things under the table, without some stable ones, would call it, the ways and methods that applied to such sale. And a few companies were sold during that period, so that the public didn't know, not at any price, not at any price, not at any time, not at all. And something similar is about to happen to this agency. The public will not know about the actual sales of anything, not at any price, or why, not where the basis for the decision was: the public will only know what it knows now in the framework of this strategy that we already have. If decision-making were closer to the Government and closer to the executive branch of the policy, then I would also know details about each individual business, which would be necessary in terms of ensuring the principles required by the OECD: transparency, predictability, efficiency and accountability. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we argue that this law does not guarantee these principles and that this law is in exactly the opposite of what the OECD expects of us. While declared yes - normal but not in practice and content. These investments are numerous. This agency has a total share in Novi Ljubljanski banka, 33.1% share, In Novi Kreditni banka Maribor, 41% share, total Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance, Slovenian Compensation Company, Aerodrome Ljubljana, Air Traffic Control, Luka Koper, Dars, DDC, Slovenian Railways, Holding Slovenian Power Plants, Elektro Slovenije, all electricity companies that are 100% state owned, Telekom, Postage, etc.; in short, state assets are transferred to this agency as a whole. And let me remember, with one explicit article, this agency is also receiving the share that pensioners have chosen even through the 2007 referendum, i.e. the share in the Triglav Insurance Fund, which was transferred to the pension and disability insurance fund by special law after the referendum was held in 2007 in this regard. In short, all this property that the three-member administration will manage, which means that it will be able to sell it on the basis of a national strategy, as it wishes and wishes, is within the scope of this agency. For this reason, we considered that this was not good, and we proposed to ensure on the one hand efficiency, rationality, economy and, on the other hand, transparency in the management of this property. For this reason, we propose that these amendments be adopted and that the damage to state property be avoided in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Just as it has been said that paragraphs 42 and 43 are not related, they are in fact linked to the amendment to Article 9, because adoption constitutes an amendment to the rules which expire and the same applies to the question of repealing the regulation. This is how this amendment is linked and will be voted on as it is. Please, Mr. Blackach, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u12	See, the President-in-Office, paragraphs 42 and 43, on which rules shall cease to apply in the event of the application of this Act. In the amendment to Article 42, we propose that this Article be amended so that only certain provisions of the Regulation cease to apply. This Article has nothing to do with whether the Agency will operate for management or will be administered within the competent Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. Article 43, however, repeals certain articles which have no direct link to this law, irrespective of which version will be adopted, whether it will be an agency or a Directorate of Public Property within the Ministry of Finance. And let me tell you just one example, this article abolishes Darsa's supervisory council, Darsa's supervisory council, Article 8 of the Dars Act. There is no need for this, because Dars is still a company and will continue to operate, I think that even this article is contrary to the applicable legislation because it heads one of the organs of a company operating under the Company Act. And something similar is the article on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund, where all bodies are disposed of by this Article, even though the Court remains a legal person. Interestingly, this is not the case with Kadu, who remains as a legal person. It is interesting that this article does not happen at the DSU - at the Consulting and Management Society, this is the company that builds a building for the police within 100% of the state's property, now this company is transferred to the agency and the authorities of this company are not expiring with this law. This Article, at the very least, is non-consistent and, in particular, contrary to the legislation in force. Therefore, we believe that these two articles need to be discussed and decided independently, of course the amendments adopted and, in the third reading procedure, finalised in such a way that the law itself is consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u13	Yes, it was now clear that without my assistance, it would be explained that the debate on these amendments is substantively linked, that the articles are substantively linked and that, of course, if the amendment to Article 9 is adopted, the two articles will also be voted on. There's no dilemma here. We've also cleared up our jobs professionally. It's a connection. We'll discuss it together. If the amendment is adopted, of course, these articles will also be voted on separately. That concludes the matter. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. I'll push it again. I do too many things at the same time, I'm sorry. The word is Radovan Žerjav, please. I suggest we proceed with this list, and then we'll make another application. Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, I support Slovenia's entry into the OECD. We have already begun to do so in the previous term - so that there will be no dilemma. At the same time, I am absolutely against the establishment of new agencies, because this simply means an increase in public administration, means a new, additional administration, means new, additional costs. In fact, at least in this case, we're not really stopping anything. In my opinion, it is absolutely unnecessary to establish a new artificial creation and a large power centre, which this agency will certainly be. I agree with those who claim that all state property should be managed directly by the Government. So I'm speaking directly, so directly and not through some para-state agency. Of course, in what form is another question. In my opinion, it would be best for the matter to be directly under the President of the Government, as is the case in Finland. Otherwise, I also agree with the proposed solution proposed in this amendment. When we talk about the Agency, we are not talking about special political independence, nor are we talking about special expertise, because we simply cannot ensure this with the Agency. What political independence if, for the first time, we adopt here in the National Assembly a strategy on the availability of this property, and, secondly, that the Government will also add to the agreement on individual sales. That's not even possible. Well, I guess politics in elections takes responsibility for having state property too - or maybe not?Oh, my God! Maybe the kind of political independence we have in the KAS case. I was woken up this morning by a 7 a.m. report. I listened to the President of KAS, Mr Bogomier Kovac, who explained how such a KAS works. We have heard many words about political independence in terms of staffing. We heard this morning that this is not the case. President Bogomir Kovac himself said that there are many cases, more and more where the opinion of KAS is not taken into account. I knew in the beginning that this would practically be nothing and that it was sand in the eyes. And today we have a similar case. Big words, really big words, but unfortunately there won't be any of them in the future. And what special expertise should we at the same time say that we will hire people from ministries or other agencies and so on? In short, it will be the same people and some new special added value or expertise cannot be expected. At the same time, past experience shows that such political independence cannot even be. We have no good experience with Kad or with Sod. It has to be admitted. All governments have so far been more or less successful in hiding behind these agencies, if we call them, for their leadership, for their supervisory councils and for their congregations, even when it comes to such or other sales of state property. This is very convenient at the time when it is necessary to take responsibility for someone else, and of course the policy is clean and it is done as if it knows nothing as if it were from another planet and companies are sold. That's not good. Those who claim that management of state property is not a political issue, I ask you: what is it? Definitely professional, but also political. Who will actually manage all the property of the country? Agency Management, Agency Supervisory Board? So here we're going to adopt a strategy in the National Assembly on the management of state property, and then we're going to be monitoring what some director in this agency is going to do with that property. That's what I think is unacceptable. Each of the political parties has a specific attitude towards state property. Some parties would simply sell everything we have, some customers, such as SLS, would not do so. And we are against the sale of state property, especially some important financial institutions, infrastructure companies and so on. An interesting conflict in the government itself is between the two ministers: between Mr Gaspari and Mr Križanič on the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Are we really gonna sell our biggest bank? First-class scandal! I guess the Slovenians have one of their own banks and one of their own insurance companies, or are we gonna give everything to others to have our economy as an X-ray?Oh, my God! This is why it is an important responsibility, especially for the Government, including for the property of this country, and this responsibility has been assumed by the Government in the elections and allocated to it in the elections. I don't know if the electorate just imagines that the responsibility for managing state property will be given to someone who doesn't really care what happens to key economic operators. We already have examples of good practice today. Some ministries directly manage certain state assets. I have an example from experience, where I used to work, with Nafta Lendava. As long as it was owned by Petrol, the majority owned it, I call it a 10-year-old developmental death. Nothing was going on in the company, and he was the owner, as I would say, not the state. A 10-year developmental death, nothing should have happened, no development project should have happened, nothing, because it was the owner's policy. Only when the company came back to 100% ownership of the country began to develop did investments start. Thank God! We've kept some more than 500 jobs. Otherwise, they would probably be gone today in Lendava, but it is the direct management of the Ministry of Economy with this company. So we have an experience and an example of good practice. I said on the Finance Board, and someone already took me away today, I see this agency about as if I had put my own assets, my savings in the management of my neighbor, and then I should practically not ask him what he's doing with my assets, with my savings. I don't think we can afford that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is Renta Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. Dear Mr. President, all present! Yesterday and today decisions are being taken and decisions will be taken, which are crucial for the further development and work of the Republic of Slovenia. As someone has already said today, voters are sure to ask themselves, especially from the Schengen border area, this is at the border with the Republic of Croatia, from where I come from, questions about some of the decisions made yesterday by those who, although they were given confidence, decided otherwise, decided not to support the draft law on ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today, the adoption of the current Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly crucial, especially due to the entry and efforts of the Republic of Slovenia to join the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD. On the basis of the debates that were presented today, I hope, because the word "misleading" was expressed, that those who discussed the word did not themselves realize when they threw in the same basket the word "management" and "possession" not even to say "authority" in connection with availability, as well as "sales". I think that these matters are clear enough and that we know that the capital investment management law of the Republic of Slovenia will regulate the stock management system and the shares of the Republic of Slovenia managed by the agency, but will not have just that, on the other hand, without the decisions and authorization of the government. There was a lot of debate at the Committee on Finance. I believe that's true today, but let's be correct. And let's not forget that - someone even said earlier "in connection with the KAS and in connection with this government". I am confident that, when the National Assembly expressed its confidence in the President of the Government and gave him the mandate to form a ministerial team, the entire National Assembly, which agreed to this, also realized that it had given a mandate in respect of the recruitment of people who would have this great responsibility to lead the work of this country as it should. The assessment of whether the work is good or not will show the re-election. This has always been the case in the last parliamentary elections in 2008. I will personally support this Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. I will also support amendments that define work in such a way that, for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia, it will also contribute to the further development of the country, but not as someone has said, "or everything that is state-owned will only be sold out." Where's he going? I am convinced that we must take matters in the right direction, not just selling them out, as some say, probably judging by past actions, perhaps by some of the most untrue decisions. However, I believe that nothing will be done to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The Slovenian National Party is convinced that the complementary proposal of the Capital Investment Management Act does not have any key, life, state importance. We are also convinced that this agency is not necessary because this agency does not change anything. Because the objectives say: It is important that the country starts to act as an awareness-raising, active and exemplary owner. What hasn't she done this before, or how? Yeah, well, then there's something wrong with this government and this country, if she didn't do it that way. This agency is unnecessary. We have already raised a number of important issues in the Slovenian National Party in January, namely the total value of the shares to be taken over by this agency. Nowhere is it explicitly stated how much investment the country has, how much in KAD, how much in the SOD and so on. In short, a lot of ambiguity, a law with a lot of regrets, complete imperfection. And lastly, once again, why the agency? Isn't the country capable of this? Isn't the Ministry of Finance capable of doing this? Is it not, as stated in Article 9, that this is managed by the Directorate of Public Property? You won't convince me. I'm not gonna say it the way my friend did before. The Slovenian national sheep party will not allow the wolf to be guarded. And that's the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Of course, I would like to highlight in particular what the OECD Guidelines on the Management of State-owned Enterprises say. This law is not only important because of these guidelines. It is important for our conduct, how and how we will deal with our common assets, and how we will try to elevate it, or how we will make the most of the investments we have. This is the objective of managing each capital investment wherever we have it. But let's go back to the guidelines. The guidelines for the management of state-owned enterprises define and indicate how to strike a balance between the responsibility of the State to actively exercise its ownership functions, such as the selection and appointment of supervisory boards, while refraining from carrying out illicit political interference with the management of companies. I think it's extremely important. Indeed, we have so far had the practice that sectoral policies, which were mostly part of some of the policies of some parties – because individual resources have been allocated within the parties. Very political, not only sectoral or developmental, but very political. And such cases could probably be listed in quite a few words. The guidelines also propose that the State should exercise its ownership functions through a centralised ownership unit which must act independently and in accordance with a publicly disclosed ownership policy. And what do we propose to do with the establishment of this agency? That's it! We want, of course, to concentrate this governance and management in one place, to have a clear vision, adopted also in the National Assembly, which means, of course, a policy - the National Assembly is a political body - and this means a policy that will be more strategic, which will be longer-term, so that other stakeholders in the ownership of these companies will also know what our policy is in this area and at the same time the government's responsibility to prepare sectoral policies, coordinate them and propose them to this agency to dispose of this asset. We have also heard today in the debate that the agency means an increase in the apparatus, etc. and, at the same time, denial of this. We all suggest or suggest that this be concentrated in some way; one as an agency, the other would give it to the Ministry of Finance as a certain office for the management of these investments and the third as a body to the President. So, here we are united that this needs to be concentrated, only in the way that we concentrate and where we are not fully in agreement. In any case - and those who have read this law, I fear that many in this House have not read it to the end - we do not increase or at least not foresee an increase or a new agency, but a pool of these people, these powers, this knowledge of managing across different sectors in one place. And in this way, of course, allow this to be slightly more transparently guided. We all find that the agency is some kind of power center. Would it not be such a power centre either with the Ministry of Finance or with the President of the Government, with this difference of course so that we would not have the possibility to influence the management of this agency, the Council of the Agency and the policy. This would be every time a policy or a finance minister or a government president or a government as such, but not of course a National Assembly. And this practice, of course, we knew. We had that kind of decision-making power. Kolga Černač spoke earlier about the ownership of certain media houses and some things, and he skillfully avoided the ownership of Mercator, the ownership of the Slovenian steel industry, probably the management of the Drava power plants, where the Supervisory Board allowed a private company to receive a loan to buy the shares of the state oil company. This, of course, was then management or direction, how and how it would be done. He was also talking about whether there were high enough purchases or not. Now, by law on the Agency, we determine exactly how and in what way. There is no longer a possibility of sale here for the Prime Minister or the Minister to call anyone and order him to do so. The procedures are clearly set out in the Agency Act itself, including on heights and also when a thorough review is needed and when the Government’s consent is needed. Unfortunately, for many who have had this practice in the past, it is no longer a sales system under the table, and this is no longer because we want to avoid it. We do not want non-transparent sales and we do not want any other Slovenian steel industry to happen where it is said to have been sold under book value and even with Slovenian banks' credits, so that a foreigner could buy it. In short, it is of course that we need the capital investment management law of the Republic of Slovenia not only to enter the OECD, but because of our behaviour and our behaviour in terms of the availability and management of state assets. However, as we are also talking about Article 43, which, of course, repeals certain provisions of existing legislation and so on. Of course, it removes, in particular, those articles or only those that have so far been laid down in different laws, how and in what way are called supervisory councils and management bodies in these companies. And, of course, it is also necessary to see Article 44, which states that, in the 6 months in these societies, where there would be an accidental conflict, to harmonise legislation with the Company Act, and in this way it is possible that by the end of this year, if we adopt it today, and I am sure that we will adopt this law, we will have a completely different system of management and management of state property in companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Brada Pecan has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much. In one of the discussions of the predecessors in the previous round, it was very clear to understand what the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party were actually disturbing in this law. They are disturbed by the fact that, in the event that they are able to regain power, they will no longer be able to implement their policies, their way of understanding victory in elections, as a carto Bianca to take ownership over the whole country. Therefore, if the State is the owner of the assets, if the State is the owner of the capital investments, this does not mean that the winning party is also the owner of the capital investments owned by the State, but only manages them. And because this management is as clear, clear, transparent as possible, it is necessary to withdraw from the winning policy the management of these investments into the hands of people who are not bound by the current policy. This, of course, made it very clear at the committee's own meeting what the objectives of these amendments we are talking about today are. And because of this, it is not possible, logically, to agree to such an attitude towards state property, whether in capital investments or in anything else. We were about a year ago, four years ago, says now five years ago we had a chance to see how this country works when a winning party thinks it's got a country to own. And that is also what we want to overcome by this law and also prevent ourselves and all those who will come after us. That's one. Second. When we speak, otherwise, Comrade Cappič has already explained about the drawing up of individual legislation on special laws that speak of the composition of supervisory councils and the appointment of supervisory councils, but I would like to read this further. The 28th Article of the proposed law, which has not been amended on the Committee, speaks of how the Agency exercises the rights of a shareholder or a member of a company by exercising voting rights in the meetings of companies, says that the Assembly of the Society also appoints the Supervisory Board, says that, on this principle, companies operating in 100% or in part of the country, by monitoring the performance of operations on the basis of the company's annual plans adopted and achieving a targeted return on capital, by cooperating with the members of the company's bodies, by taking part in the acquisition proceedings, by taking part in the proceedings before the courts, by carrying out assemblies in one-person societies, is a specific example of Darsa. The real agency basically represents the owner or manager of a single company and therefore organises the assembly with Dars. As a result, these articles, which speak of this in individual laws, which say that the National Assembly appoints members of the Supervisory Board of Darsa, are no longer necessary because the Agency will take over the role of the State, the Government and the National Assembly in this case. We heard how terrible it was, because the agency's office is going to call it the National Assembly. For God's sake, then it's even worse if he appoints the members of the supervisory boards of the National Assembly for individual companies owned by the State. That's even more political. I think it is better if we appoint and also monitor the functioning of the Agency in the National Assembly, so that as a constructive opposition wishing to help this country out of the crisis, you can actively participate in the management of state assets when you, together with us, adopt a three-year programme to manage this property or capital investment. I am glad that you are willing to participate in this, but of course your amendments in this case are somewhat flawed, and in particular the intentions that are hidden behind them are too clear to be supported by man. I won't do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I cannot support the amendment to Article 9 of the SDS Group because it is aimed at managing the agency, which is supposed to be more independent than it has ever been, with state property. The establishment of the Agency does not mean that what has been said today is that state assets will be sold headlessly and the country will lose the possibility of drawing on the relevant income from this title. I do not think that the money from the eventual sale of property will be intended to buy any work, as it did in the previous mandate, so that a certain policy option can have a significant impact in the public, but that money will be spent for other purposes, in accordance with a programme that will be prepared and in accordance with the transparency required by the Agency, because the agencies cannot lead the policy and therefore be more confident. However, the new fifth paragraph of Article 29, which relates to this same matter, I see as a bad conscience the applicants who, for example, sold in the previous term under the price, so the former authorities sold Mercator headlessly and at a price and thus robbed Zpiz over 20 billion Slovenian tolls and spent it on buying the works. And now they probably want to return this money to Zpiz's cashier through some other sale or other successful investment of this state property. It is necessary to understand the efforts made by the Agency not to come to this end, that policy will always have a big enough or dominant impact on what will happen to state property and therefore propose these changes to the law, which, otherwise, is well prepared for my conviction and will have to be supported without changing with this amendment and with those associated with this amendment. As far as property is concerned When the second question is whether it should be the same subject of agency management, I have certain concerns there, but it is not the subject of this law, but of one another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At that stage alone, when this proposal for a law had just begun to be discussed, I also had some concerns. Mainly, my concerns went in the direction that a very narrow group of people actually had great power in terms of handling state assets. In the middle of this process, certain amendments have also been adopted on the Committee on Finance, namely the proposal for a law supplemented by what we are talking about today has gone in the direction that I myself thought would be the right one. So if I support this bill, then it is clear that we cannot support the amendment, which in fact changes the law itself in the concept. What remains as its main task is the need for the best possible management of state assets, namely by acquiring and having at its disposal and by needing to be satisfied with some of the OECD principles that we can list as we can talk about transparency, predictability, efficiency and accountability, but if we accept this amendment in my judgment, it is missing what is very important, the independence of the one who exercises this state property. If it were a Directorate or some other sectoral body, it is clear that this is a fairly dependent body on current, that is also on daily policy. If we are dealing with an agency, but if not fully, at least it is significantly more guaranteed than ever. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the government has taken responsibility in some areas, and in some areas it has no power to have a direct political and very operational influence in terms of current governance. The responsibility for which the applicant fears that he will be missing from the government has already been ensured by the fact that the Government must take part in the preparation or adoption of the strategy, both in the annual plan, and must participate in the recruitment process and, of course, must be subject to a certain responsibility. However, it would make no sense if, as it now does in this bill, we had the incompatibilities of individual functions with former political activity and interference to carry out state property at any department, one of the ministries. Therefore, because I think that the principles for which the OECD also makes its word very clear are more satisfactory in this bill than is now being supplemented, I suggest that I cannot support an amendment that would dramatically change the concept of this bill itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I suppose you'd like to discuss it further. I'm asking you to sign up. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we have before us this law, which is said to be due in some way to our desire to become a member of the OECD, it should be stressed that the principles of the OECD are also a guide to the management of state assets, it is said that predictability, economy, principle of responsibility, principle of transparency and so on, those principles that, after 20 years, should not be discussed, doubt whether or not they are being realized. In twenty years, your option had power for at least fourteen years, unconditionally, unconditionally, and even in other years, it had a total primate over the management of companies. And what happened? What is now proposed by law, the agency, we already had, because the SRD was actually the predecessor of this. There are very few of us who have been in the economy, which we have dealt with as engineers in the industry. But there was one of those who went to the TGA Kidrièva, today's Talum, to the SRD, from which we employed, even technical intelligence, expected enormously that this transparent management would be to give something to development. It's gotten worse. Since then the Talum - today - has been a transmission of state money, which has been used for political purposes. And from there, most of the money went out in Slovenia, and certainly no one did. In this review, Talum is not specifically indicated whether it is under Elektro Slovenije or what options are there. I don't think there are any companies in this review directly under Forum 21's intervention, but they should be on the list. When I listen to these puffs today by the ruling option, how now the influence of politics from governance and later from privatisation is finally withdrawing, I am actually going to vomit. It's the other way around, it's the legalization of looting state property, only in a different way. And here you are the original and consistent heirs of Cardel. Every four years a new solution, a bone-throwing to the people, how things are going to get better, just because they're as blurry as possible, it's easier to prey in the fog for the benefit of the power centers that control this option. When I listened to Mr. Frange, I must say that he is an excellent successor to Cardelian thinking. He spoke so strongly about the reform of corporate governance on the prevention of political buying, etc. With this agency and this reform everything is now finally becoming transparent. With such a rush, he spoke of it, and now I began to feel that some of it even believed that it was not just a fluke. But in fact, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about the independence of this agency from politics or about complete independence and full responsibility, which will appear in here at once - what are you talking about?Oh, my God! If there is still some co-responsibility before there is any minister, there is still some possibility of some control, because political, it is said, an objective responsibility is an institution, which in certain situations also works with us and has taken away, say now, Minister Pogačnik and is an example, pressure and fear of politics. In this way, however, it is left to the will or to the conduct of those who have just written such a law and done so. And now the cover is, of course, a desire for OECD membership, and that's a cover, which sounds high. Why have you reformed so much that we do not have an optimum condition today, why is it so imprudently owned? Why did Mr. Korża, who was the director of the SRD, become synonymous with the looting in Elan? These are your personnel, and you're going to put them back on these agencies. Stop this deception of the people. The economic situation is so severe that you must not go such a deceiving and showing a pigeon on a roof that is very far away. Of course you can say it. We need to convince people and force you to cease to own Slovenian property in this way. This is to cover property for the benefit of the power centre, the political centres that have become capital centres. So let's at least keep a small lever, I'm not an idealist, that I'm going to say that even in such a form through ministries, you can't do that by doing exactly what you want. However, this agency is also a mechanism for any five-year mandate to place its people who will be able to do so in favour of the option, even after you inevitably lose power in the next elections. It's actually a fear of the next election you say. Because you've pushed the country so far that you can no longer get rid of this situation that the government's support has gone. It is therefore necessary to amend the possibility that it is at least a fraction [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u29	Comrade Jerovšek, if you would return to the amendment gradually, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u30	Where this will be managed, from which centre. That's the essence of this amendment. I support this amendment because I do not trust the structures that have exploited the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Already Churchill, I think he said that if you want something not to be investigated, he'll set up a commission. But obviously, we have this new family of agencies, not just this one, but others. If we want something to be done in a non-transparent way that can be marked as independently managed by property or by some resources, the Commission is to be set up. Here, too, a number of illegalities that have been present and will continue to be reflected in the true purpose. We are saying that this commission or agency should now be called independent to be established by independent experts. Who can guarantee that? Or this statement in the law that he cannot be a member of the Council of a person who has been a Member for four years. Are Members the most problematic? But the ministers? Or anyone? Coalition. See the key people you are recruiting, of whom many have never sat in the National Assembly, and some are also, for three times, four times, ten times the salary, working in the background and robbing the state of Slovenia. That's what's worrying. And this agency is either a path or a way to rob what is left of the country or of the people. You are reading for the previous mandate Mercator, various institutions, that all have received numerous investigations. It is normal for them to receive these investigations. Who's directing them? An independent Home Secretary with a team on the phone directing the police, who and how to investigate. Is it possible that there has already been some sort of complaint, concrete with some evidence? Why don't you continue to investigate those affairs that were already in the process in 2008, and now they've gone under the rug and you're chasing those people who were trying to expose them at the time. How are you going to frame these people? We know that, first of all, he's looking for political affiliation, political competence. We are witnessing right now, at least this is how it was seen in the media that the so-called KAS expert body, which, based on expert references, proposed people who were supposed to be appointed to jobs for these key functions, is said to have proposed three, but Minister Zalar did not choose any. Why? Because it probably doesn't suit him politically. And here you are going to spend our stories now that experts, independent people, who will take care of the welfare of Slovenia will now be in charge here. You see that we now want to ensure that, after the next elections that you are confident of, it is more than obvious that you will lose them, that you will have people in these institutions, who will also manage key resources after the elections. Look, this isn't the right way. If this were indeed a wish, then one way or another, it could be to replace people like you. You have replaced the Director of the Telecommunications Agency and the post office in an illegal manner, and the European Union is already reminding us of this. Now, with all your strength, you are looking for a way to replace probably the only bar that makes it impossible for the prosecution to work exclusively on those cases that you will direct, namely Barbara Brezigar. That's what this is trying to accomplish here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u33	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Apparently, they're nervous in the coalition because that's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u35	You, Mr. Grill, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u36	I will, because it's obviously salt for the painful bleeding wounds the coalition has. And about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u37	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u38	the so-called independent institutions that you are establishing in this mandate, the independent investigative office - tomorrow we will very much expose the coalition, and the question is growing to me whether this independent investigative office has been set up to provide independent funding to some people who belong - we know what political option. [[...]] And such independent people can be under this law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u39	Buddy Grill, come on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u40	and even in the world [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u41	Really go back to this point, because tomorrow will be an opportunity. [[...]] I mean, come on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u42	I will. I want to say, look, that such a person who, for example, is now certainly involved in such affairs, under this law, it will be possible to refer to him as a professional reference to the world of this agency. And five, six of these people - "the real dicks" - will then run such an institution. Look, this amendment that we are proposing - to return to this amendment - is certainly at least trying, in part, to correct this law in order to be acceptable and as credible as possible. That's how I'm going to support this amendment, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A kind greeting from the Secretary of State and co-workers and, of course, a desire for good cooperation and a successful work. What about an important bill in view of the previous debates that have been heard. On the one hand, a person goes to laugh, on the other hand, with so much blackness, there are other emotions that are so perplexed. In the countryside, in the farmers, we have one simple proverb that says that "better than one bad master than two good" in the future, I want in this Agency a good, right master, but the reason why we enforce this agency by law is that we have so far had the availability of state property in a large part of this story fragmented that each ministry had its own feud, domestic governance and that is why we have had stories like this. And say, at Drava power plants, the Slovenian steel industry, and in Luka Koper, Intereuropa, Mercator and elsewhere. And that's what we're about to focus on, and we're going to set up a group of people there, and their responsibility and responsibility to the government is clear. If they manage this asset poorly at the agency, I do not want it as a citizen, then it will be a link and responsibility every time, not this government, clear and indisputable. That is why this amendment, which we are talking about, demolishes the essential context of this law and undermines it, and that is why I cannot and I do not want to join these efforts, and that is how we will also act in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. By centralising the management of these investments through a designated agency, we want to achieve the desired objectives, which are, firstly, efficiency, secondly, transparency, responsibility, predictability and as far as possible, separation from the various policy impacts. However, everyone sitting in the National Assembly knows that complete separation from politics in this area is simply not going and cannot be, for we are talking about the role of the National Assembly and speaking in the role of the Government, both of which are politically appointed. It seems important to us to tell and realize that the agency has great power, but also responsibility, so we expect our voice of support to finally establish in Slovenia a system that will allow for capital investments, which we will manage with the highest degree of caution and also with due diligence. In particular, we believe that this agency will be able to manage strategic investments best, for which it has built-in additional protection, which will be linked to the acquisition and the consent of the Government. The fact is also that when we talk about policy connections in the management of state property, it is certain that the management of state property is, by definition, completely political. However, this agency is certainly a positive step that will contribute to the comprehensive treatment of this issue, and in particular by adopting this law - and this amendment - it breaks down - it creates a clear structure of responsibility, as this is precisely the flaw that has proved to be the greatest difficulty in managing state investment so far. In view of the wrong decisions, not in this or in past governments, no matter who led them, of course, no one was specifically responsible. However, it is important that the system of corporate governance in Slovenia, that it is more than necessary and the right time to modernise and bring it to a higher, more appropriate level, because for many investments, a number of decisions to return to Intereuropo, Luka Koper, Drava Power Plants, Slovenian Steel Industry and Mercator were, of course, significant that this was done in such a way, I would say, according to the domestic principle and optimal economic and economic indications were not essential. These are the key arguments for supporting this law. And this observation was that power would be concentrated in one, two, three people. Of course it doesn't. Right at the time of the coordination, our initiatives, the LDS Member Club and the professional services, went in this direction to appoint the Director of the National Assembly with an absolute majority and not on the Government's proposal that the Council of the Agency expand to five members, we have previously considered a solution to three and that the Director's function should be extended to the three-member administration. I think that these are all appropriate fuses, which, of course, provide the highest possible fuse and guarantee that the management of state property will be carried out in a more transparent, transparent, more responsible way, and above all that it will achieve greater economic effects and that it will be more justified. Of course, since the previous discussions were rather pessimistic, someone also said that certain ministries manage matters in certain bodies via telephones. This is a normal means of communication, but certainly better than in those times when the Ministers of the Interior made order on the spot with the megaphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you. The substance of the amendment to Article 9 and, of course, of the amendments to Articles 11 to 43 is, indeed, that the context of the law is fundamentally broken or, in other words, the essence of these amendments is to express by them that this agency is not necessary. And this has also led to our Slovenian National Party to support these amendments. The only reason we could see him for setting up this agency - I said - would be that it would really be such a guidance to be included in the OECD. But it's not like that. In order to fully justify the correctness of the amendments to the 9th and the other articles, let me just tell you the following, in fact, I will read. Recognized economic and political analysts have studied academically some time ago the final tycoon sale of the most opulent state assets and have also highlighted the following statement: "At the sale, all those who want it will refer to the OECD guidelines, which are nothing more than instructions on how to make rich individuals richer." I think that sentence says everything. I still trust the government because most people called it. I am convinced that the Ministry of Finance is competent and that this government is able to first register its assets, take care of them, prevent the sale of these assets and monitor their assets. No agency is required to do this, and no one at the OECD wants this agency. The government is politically structured and the agency will also be politically designed. Nothing in this world is apolitical. Nothing! It is better to remain as it is that the government and the ministry are the ones who will know what the state has, where it is and how to protect that greatest wealth. Otherwise it will be so - the OECD guidelines will be guidance on how to make the rich even richer and how to steal what is left. That is why we will support these articles, from 9-11 to 43, in the Slovenian National Party and thus destroy the desire to re-establish one of the agencies which, once again, I say, is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much. In this debate, we can decide, as always, whether we will try to hold on to reality or we will try to have the form, as professionally as possible, as Members can, a debate. Are we going to talk on average and end up risking smiling? For example, some of my predecessors spoke of solutions that had already been amended by the amendments. For example, reference was made to the restriction of the election of former Members to certain legal places of these agencies. A problem that's already been solved. Apparently, these colleagues don't know exactly what they're talking about, and then we're risking us all being a little funny together. I can't guarantee myself that the agency is actually the best solution. However, it is better than the others we have at our disposal, at least in my opinion. Because by setting up an agency, we have two important impacts. The first is that the National Assembly can play a significantly more influential role in determining who will manage the technical part of capital investment. With the technical work. And secondly, in this connection, we create three levels of governance that very clearly divide, which are the competences of one, other or third body. The first level is the strategic level in which the main word will be the National Assembly, as they will adopt a strategy on the basis of which the assets will be available. The second level is the operational level and relates to the sales programme accepted by the Government. And only the third level is purely technical. This is a very important part of the technical implementation of asset management. And that's what this agency is gonna do. Of course, it is very important because we know that the devil is hiding in the details of how this technical level is implemented. This could also be done by the ministry, but we know in what way in which a non-defined relationship of responsibility is deemed to be an overriding one. In this way, this transposition will not actually be possible. It will be clear to the Agency who is leading it, how it is managed and who is responsible for such or other technical decision in the management of investments. And these people can be replaced. Once again, the main word will be the National Assembly, for the National Assembly will appoint the leadership of this agency. The issue of investment management was said to be political. Depends on which level, depending on the level on which level we're thinking. Indeed, the strategy is certainly a political issue and political parties are also happy to share. Some believe that everything needs to be sold out as soon as possible, and some others feel that it is necessary to keep state-owned strategic companies because we adhere to the principle if something is bought and managed by others, why should it not then be paid to the state. But this is the political part. The Agency will not carry out its political work. She's not gonna decide what she's gonna sell, she's not gonna decide when she's gonna sell. It will only decide how it will implement the sales decisions to be taken in the National Assembly and in the Government. As a result, the solution is significantly more transparent than it is now, and I hope to say with optimism that it will also be in action, what we are talking about now, a revolution in the management of state property in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u50	In this debate, many governments have attributed ambition to sell state property. They talked more about availability than management. You may be interested in the mood, you have proved this in the past. Let's say when you adopted a strategy for privatisation of Slovenian public energy in the previous term. At that time, I collected signatures on the streets of Maribor against such ambition. And I am pleased that today, more or less in the political space, there is an awareness that at least this basic infrastructure is being maintained in state ownership. I think that the country can also be the responsible owner in other companies. Even in those where we are not talking about infrastructure, we are talking about a purely market-based approach. The fundamental requirement for this is that we clearly distinguish the function of the regulator and the function of the active controller. And with the agency on the one hand as an administrator and on the other hand, for example, the Ministry of Economy as a regulator, which has specialised market regulation institutions, we also achieve this. Some of you have made very inappropriate comparisons. It's about as if we'd put our assets in the neighbor's management. The agency is still from the state. Moreover, it is a state body that will specialize in finally achieving smart governance of state assets in state-owned enterprises. Therefore, a function that is at a systemic level in 20 years could not be achieved. I agree with the distinguished Mr Žerjav, there are several common views on the future of the economic identity of the Slovenian people on this subject; there are also examples of good practice. But in the past, examples of good practice were lonely in cases where companies were run by responsible people, with some ethical and moral attitude towards property they had in management. I have no doubt that this was also the case in his time of Nafta Lendava. And in this respect, I would like to ask what you are actually afraid of in this debate. So far, the model has clearly proved to be wrong. In the 20-year history of the Slovenian state, we can count long and wide the cases where the country has proved to be a bad owner. And the model so far is exhausted, we need a new one. We have been very creatively co-formed by a law that has, I think, good prospects for having, in a thoughtful way, a clear sharing of responsibility to achieve good governance. By the way, in individual cases, when an assessment prevails that a property must be resold, that a country in a company does not have a broader function and that it is irrelevant that it retains its ownership stake in that company, Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the proposed law very clearly define how a sale can be made. Moreover, at the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the 29th Article of the bill, we wrote an additional more stringent limit, which reads: "With an individual investment, whose total book value exceeds EUR 20 million," which is on the list that some of you mention, practically every investment. And with strategic investments, the agency has the prior agreement of the government. This also clearly points to the fact that, in this system, we also have an instrument of this political responsibility in the proposed system, when the Government, as the holder of the executive branch, has to say whether or not it agrees with the sale of the individual capital investment. In this respect, all those reflections are immediately overturned that a group of interested people will decide what to do with state property in the background. No, in this mandate, and as long as we rule in this country, we will not do so. If you give us bad intentions at this point, I cannot understand otherwise that you are incapable of looking at one policy of good intentions, that we really take a step forward here and that in our intentions you see only your reflection in the mirror. By the way, I also proposed to the committee the designation of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. That's a long name. I proposed that, when registering this independent state office, the authority should apply the shortened name, A as an agency, U as management, RE as the Republic and S as Slovenia, AURES. AU is a chemical symbol for gold. Indeed, the Latin word for the thing, the gold thing, the national gold, is something that we manage in this National Assembly by adopting the strategy, because we are only holders of what is owned by citizens and citizens. The last thing I want to do is to continue with the poor management of this property many cases of bad practice that we have witnessed in the last 20 years and are still our own, I will say, the top management of the poor has been experienced in four years by the government of Janez Janša. We don't need this marriage because of the OECD. We need this law because we are responsible for the good management of their property to our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Please, for your application. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u52	At first glance, it seems that things are quite simple and that we are arguing about who is responsible for selling state property or who is the one who is the greater guardian or more concerned about it. But that's not even a question, it's not a dilemma. After all, the country - it has always been known - is the owner that can be good and can be a bad master. These opinions are very different, and in this case, luckily, we are not talking about whether the state will continue to own or not and whether we are deciding whether to sell the state property immediately. It is clear that the distinction between governance and ownership is also a great embarrassment for many discussers or a conceptual confusion. I am convinced that in this Article 9 and this amendment, which is envisaged, is a step back to what is set out in the Guidelines, regardless of how we can manage state ownership. At home, however, it is reasonable and right to follow the OECD guidelines, which eventually eliminate some of the bad practices, show better examples and, after all, it is also expected that this will be taken into account in some way in all those, such as in those countries that are members of this club. After all, I believe that this is in our interest and that 15-year efforts are not just for that purpose, but they are for some purpose and that this will benefit the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that in such decisions it is also necessary to look at how these other countries are regulated. The comparison, which is very clear in the explanation of this law, is from countries such as Germany and France to Finland, which is somehow the most comparable to Slovenia, to compare such that they show us to go this way as it is already stated in the amended Article 9 of this Act. This amendment actually complicates the matter, and so on, responsibility spreads so far that it is not detectable at all. As we will also have, you will see, in two days or when we have a discussion about the annual highway construction programme, how much you will tell about that point, I am sure, even in the light of the latest stories about cartel negotiation. But I have argued this for at least 10 years that it is impossible, in May, June, to adopt an annual plan for the construction and restoration of motorways for the current year, but all works are, in fact, ready for the show or are already committed and managed by it as if the annual certification programme in the National Assembly is only an alibi for the responsibility of all those who should be responsible for each matter. Here, if you look at this structure that you want to bring into government property management, it's exactly that kind of thing. First, it is certain that the agency and the management authorities will have a word in hand and will draw up some basics, given that they will manage this property, then this programme will be done by the finance ministry, which will be provided by the government, the government will confirm it and then come to the National Assembly, where we will receive some reports and, after the political majority, decide what is right and what is wrong. Approximately as with the 2007 final account, where it was evident that some of the figures, some of the things identified by the relevant institutions, by voting in the National Assembly or even at the correctional exam, were to match this result and find out how successful we were, even though we were not. Therefore, this amendment, as set out here, is in fact leading in a direction where the proponents obviously want to dissipate responsibility on the one hand and, on the other hand, they expect to participate in this decision, i.e. because they are now so widely predicting changes in this Government that it is necessary to make the law so that, when they get there, they can manage it further, if possible, as with certain investments that have been dispersed, split or redeemed, donated or usurpated, whatever the case may be, from Mercator further in the previous term. This can be understood from this amendment, at least that's how I see it. Responsibilities must be located on those who directly control, must be control mechanisms and must be control mechanisms so far as to bring about every responsibility. That is why I am amending this article, which in fact provides this very basic function, but which is management planning and contains everything when it comes to management, from investment to sales and anything else, I simply cannot support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u54	This last observation is indeed ridiculous, but it has been made earlier in the debate by one of the Members - that the opposition is working with these amendments on the basis of when it will rule. Hello?Oh, my God! I mean, seriously, please, come on! So we want to make this a transparent and responsible matter. Who currently has the highest responsibility for state property and governance in this country - the Government and the National Assembly, but not a parallel institution, which will be set up to even blur these. It is true, however, that by creating this institution with relatively long mandates of the world and administration, you want to take the path to manage the entire financial assets of the country even when you are no longer in power. So, according to you, it's better to have different brothers, nephews, running state property, I don't know who else is located in one way or another in these institutions, than some who are sitting here today, but the Government, who has been given the mandate to do so, and thus also the responsibility. And it cannot be blinded to the public that the opposition wants to exercise this responsibility to the full. Today, the whole debate did not hear one argument why the agency, as an institution far from political responsibility and far from the public eye, is suitable for managing all this property. Except for one, and this argument is called independence. It was said, the agency will be independent. Please. In the National Assembly, you will name all the organs. The law states that it is an indirect budget user and so on, and the agency will be independent. He won't. It will be highly dependent and subordinated to individual political interests, both of them and of other interests, which will not necessarily be at the same time the interests of the policy given to it by the voters in the elections. And that's what's bad about this marriage and it has to be prevented in every way. As this also detracts from these principles, which are based on the OECD's management of the investments of a country that talks about transparency, predictability, efficiency and accountability. Nowhere does he mention such a famous independence that you mention because in this case she is not. It's a responsibility. It is the responsibility to manage this because it must be political if it is to be fully established. Because to those people who will be your satellites in this agency, you won't have to account to anyone. The law states that if there is more than €20 million in assets available, it is necessary for the Government to agree. Here today we have a meeting point, not today, where we will decide to have more than €300,000 available to the state. It is said that various relatively small matters will be decided by this National Assembly in the context of this meeting, because such a law is such a procedure and because you have destroyed this regulation in this law. In these provisions, you say that the provisions of this Regulation on sales and other forms of disposal of financial and other assets, in order to delete this Regulation, are no longer deleted. Thus, on the one hand, the National Assembly will deal with a relatively small amount of value and will decide on it every time. On specific issues, there will be no misunderstanding, not on strategies, on specific issues. On the other hand, in the management of enormous amounts of state property, which is owned by all citizens and citizens, as important shares in financial institutions, in energy pillars and so on, by a handful of people. And only when it's worth over 20 million euros to the government. I don't think that's right, it's also conceptually wrong and it's saying that it's actually just a sheet covering compliance with the OECD principles in this law, but the actual purpose is something completely different. And that's exactly what we've been talking about since this law came into procedure. There has been a lot of debate on this subject and a lot of suggestions that everyone has spoken in this direction, that the law needs to be improved, because it is also conceptually weak and ensure that, on the one hand, the principle will be fully respected, that political responsibility will be established in this area and that transparency in the availability of the country's large assets will be ensured, even if you wish. We must be aware that it is only a large asset, because in fact all the biggest investments currently made by the State are being transferred under this law. One of the largest shares of PPIZ in the Triglav Insurance Company is where you delete the provision of the law adopted in 2007 and 2008 on the basis of the expressed will of the people in the referendum. With this, I think, you also derogate from the referendum will of people where it is written that funds from having these shares, with shares held by ZPIZ in the Triglav Insurance Company, are intended to continue managing the financial assets of ZPIZ. The net annual income from the management of the assets referred to in this paragraph shall be transferred to the account of the SPIZ. This money is directly retired, and of course the management is delayed, and then - remember - the main problem was that it was originally intended to be managed by Kad and the pensioners were raised - they were not satisfied with it - and then this change was to be directly carried out by the PIZ. I think this part is also conceptually controversial and should be rejected for this reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u56	Mr Chernač's statement is wrong and needs to be corrected. Mr Černač, I have spoken of the fact that it is certainly as the law foresees and are stated in such a way that it will enable effective, transparent, responsible and predictable governance, separate from politics, from those who make daily simple decisions about what they would do and also recklessly. And if the chain is the Ministry, the Government, the National Assembly, this responsibility dissipates against what this law wants. So, of course, you can't understand me saying anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Respectable, colleagues and colleagues. Usually, those who are the highest representatives in individual departments or even the President of the Government are involved in some of the important matters that we are dealing with in the National Assembly. Today, we have before us a law that transfers the powers of administration and other procedures relating to the property of the State to another institution, and there is no one here, not the Minister or the President of the Government. When we had a discussion a while ago about whether to buy one or two Hummer, the Prime Minister of the Government came to the Defence Committee. When we discussed whether two Patria vehicles would have to be purchased more or less, the Prime Minister of the Government also took part in this strategic decision in the discussion on the working body. Today, when we discuss how this property will be managed, there is none of the most responsible who are proposing this point and have also taken decisions on how to act on this matter. Regrettably, it should also be noted that the National Assembly in this mandate is in fact becoming a mere protocol body. While the European Parliament is gaining power and power, the Slovenian Parliament is losing them thanks to this government coalition. In fact, at each meeting of the Government, at each meeting of the National Assembly that we have, something happens that is transferred from the power of the National Assembly to the Government or even to some other institution. Two sessions ago, we had a debate on the agricultural land and forests fund, where the powers of the National Assembly were abolished in an important part of the control over the work of state property. Today we have another law, where it happens exactly the same. The National Assembly as a key supervisory institution over the work of the executive branch is in fact losing its powers. And here we will deal only with whether we will vote that some military property, for example, a military apartment, can sell, transfer or whatever it is done with it, but we will not be able to vote on what will happen to the capital share, say, the Insurance Office of Triglav or the New Bank of Ljubljana. These strategic decisions will virtually not be able to be discussed in a qualitative way by the National Assembly. As far as transparency is concerned, it is already completely absurd. We have very serious difficulties in requiring references to meetings of working bodies or to plenary meetings of the National Assembly. Some are proposing that certain specific decisions or events that have taken place be discussed either on purpose in this Chamber or on the working body. The services of the National Assembly, with the strong support of the coalition, will do anything or pressure the coalition to avoid or very much after difficult matters and demands and battles. In this way, it will be difficult for us to ensure that the National Assembly and the State, the Government, actually, will act transparently. Even more so, when we ask the question of what contracts are related to state property, what contracts do state-owned companies have with private-law companies, the Government is wrapping it up under a level of confidentiality. Under the level of confidentiality. Even those demands or things that are actually connected to the work of ministries. This means that in this case, with this reorganisation of state property management, everything will actually be placed on a foreign branch, on some side track and parliamentary section, the parliamentarians will not actually be able to ask the question of the Member State in order to get an appropriate answer, nor will it be possible to do so. The government is not obliged to report and so on. In short, the problems in this case are being pointed forward, and all those who talk about transparency, you have a fig in your pocket, so far as this legislation has allowed, it has not been because these matters have been hampered. Now that this is put into another environment, not some agency that will withdraw from all the interferences of the National Assembly will make it even more difficult to talk about it. That's a fact. No fundamental conditions are given by this law to ensure that the management, sale or anything with this state property is transparent. Forget it, it won't happen. And this law once again puts in place some cartel form of government property management. This is gonna be a cartel. This will be something that will be placed somewhere, where something will be hidden, and because it will actually be decided in a very narrow closed circle. There will no longer be any authorities appointed by him, such as the National Assembly, to report to the National Assembly, as they have now been in some cases, etc. And that's what you call transparency. Dear coalition colleagues, you've been talking about a lot of things, too. And all I'm talking about is why we're proposing that things come back or change with this amendment as the amendments are written, and not that management and management of these matters take place in an agency that is placed in any sphere. If you want transparent governance, if you also want this to be done on some appropriate democratic principles, then these amendments need to be adopted, as they are the basis for these things to happen in a transparent and transparent way. In the event that this is not accepted, this means withdrawing from the visible field of the National Assembly and withdrawing from the visible field of citizens. This will all take place under a certain name of expertise and so on. We have and already have experience, you, how these things happen in such cases. After all, some MEPs in this reference to the National Assembly were directly involved in various forms of property sales, for example, Mr Rob for a decade supervised, managed, supervised and operated in those companies which were established and managed by state assets, was in Kad, including in the Court, including in the Agency for Restructuring, was the State Secretary for Privatisation, practically the whole process was with which Mr Rop managed, and Mr Swickl was in a slightly smaller but similar role. And now this system is being built on a similar basis, in a similar way, when everything moves away and happens on the basis of an agreed economy. This will be exactly the way you have experience, and it will probably be what will allow these things to be regulated in the most competitive way. You will probably have this experience, and you will also have it through the space that you are likely to demonstrate, consolidate, declare, and practice will take place in a completely opposite direction. None of this will happen, and what remains of this property will be distributed and distributed according to some agreements on certain key issues, as they were developed in previous mandates at the beginning of privatisation. And this last step is likely to be taken in such a opaque and untransparent way. I will support the amendments that we have proposed because they are fundamental or fundamental if we are to ensure transparency, transparency and accountability in this area. Otherwise, this will all take place under the table and in the ways you have implemented in the past periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you. Since I see a desire to discuss it, I'm opening a report. A representative of the Ministry made a statement. Mrs. Roach, a moment. Here you go. Will you be at the end? Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you. Article 26 states: the Agency shall, by 31 March of each year, prepare a report on the implementation of the annual capital investment management plan for the previous year and submit it to the Government and the National Assembly. The Agency shall publish the report publicly. It means he's available. There's nothing secret. There's nothing hidden. The whole of Slovenia, the part that is written, the illiterate people cannot read it, but the whole of Slovenia can read a publicly published report on the management of the country's capital investments managed by this agency. The same report is given to the National Assembly and the Government. It is not true, then, that this is alienated from the public, and it is not true that some individuals will be able to work with government property just as it will be for others. Not to mention this, by the way, around Triglav and the referendum, I would like to remind you why it happened at all - because the then government wanted to privatize Triglav. And that's why the pensioner's rebellion was organized. Fortunately, because today, Insurance Triglav would be managed by God know who. As was the case with the public sale of shares in the New Bank of Maribor. So we've seen how different societies are from, I've already forgotten how they're called, because experts know that, these, from the Cayman Islands and similar magical lands, how they bought and then sold immediately with a very good profit of this stock in the name of God, take it to someone, in fact, quietly. I don't think this agency will be, as we've heard of nephews and brothers. Some seem to regret that, while they are in the very limited potential of this country, but the brain is concentrated in some families, I am sorry that some of them feel affected by this, they may already have to make their family circle more successful and with more knowledge in particular. I would also like to say that the constant repetition of the same mantras, while it is very clear that the greatest pain of those who oppose this law is, in fact, the possibility that they will be able to sell under the table a variety of very interesting and very good investments, as they have done so so far, is of course very significant. I think there's another reason why the amendment should be rejected and why the law should be upheld.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u62	I ask the proponents whether the intention of the amendment is to move away from managing the state of property efficiently, transparently, responsibly and predictablely and whether it is for Slovenia not to pursue the objectives which the previous government has also sought to finally join the OECD organisation?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you. There's still a desire to discuss, so I'm opening, again, an application. Check-in is on. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u64	About the last one first. In all the debates we have held so far in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have stressed that we do not want what has now been said at the conclusion of this debate. All our efforts, when we have proposed different solutions, have gone in this direction to ensure, to the maximum extent possible, these principles, as foreseen by the OECD. At the last meeting of the Committee, we also said that we do not want our opposition to these solutions to occur anywhere in the way that it has now been said that we want to hinder Slovenia's entry into the OECD, far from that. But this is clearly a political folklore, and some will continue to abuse the matter. However, we have also said that, as established by law, it is almost uniform in comparative regulation and that it does not guarantee these principles, as it is conceived in its essence. I have before me this law, which speaks of the share of the Triglav Insurance Company, and it does not hold to what was said by Mrs Breda Pecan, that the former government wanted to privatise this matter. I have a law here. It was the decision of the previous governments to transfer a certain share of the Triglav Insurance Company to natural persons. This was referred to in Article 21, paragraphs 6 and 7, of the Act which provided: within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act, the specific law shall lay down the criteria by which natural persons will be entitled to the shares of an insurance undertaking, pension vouchers or pension insurance policy. In view of the fact that, following expert analyses, it was found that insurance companies could not achieve this because of insufficient records, it is recalled that an amendment was adopted whereby the capital company operated this share, Kad, therefore, was registered in the law that the Capital Society must exercise the rights arising from the ownership of those shares of the Insurance Company Triglav, which it received under this Act, with a view to providing funds for pension and disability insurance. Thus, it is solely in the interest of the pension fund that the law was adopted and the management entitlement was granted to Kad. Nevertheless, your member, Mr Zlatko Jenko, as a member of the Council of State at the time, has launched an initiative in the Council of State for a subsequent legislative referendum, which was also held in 2007 with the election of the President of the country in which you have politically declared what this is all about. The law was rejected and then amended in 2008 only in this part to directly manage the record. And now you're taking this share away from Zpizu, you're taking this portion that people decided at the referendum that they had to be in direct management, you're taking Zpizu. That's what you say you overstepped people's decisions. For this reason, I ask you not to speak falsely in the National Assembly, because there are verifiable facts here, I have a law, I have a request from Mr Zlatko Jenk, your member, on the basis of which this subsequent legislative referendum was launched. This law, however, is now actually taking this share of pensioners and also the financial impact of this share. And interestingly, no one opposes this, not Mrs Matei Kožuh Novak, who was very loud in the previous term with every change in the pension area. Now the pension cuts, it's quiet. Now taking this share, it's quiet. In line with this evolution, I expect her to slowly become the president of a party. Because it's quiet. All references are likely to be answered for this. It is said that in this law, what was voted in the referendum is somehow alienated or alienated from their decision-making. And one more thing, for all the other investments, even smaller ones, all who exceed EUR 300,000 must make decisions in this National Assembly, and here is the limit of EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I heard earlier from the previous debate one matter that actually surprised me very much when Mrs Pečanova said about who would lead these agencies and how this would be transparent and how the report would be. Now, if you tell people that transparency will be ensured on the basis of the annual report, then this is misleading a couple of excellenceWe know what these reports are, and I don't know which body will review this report. It's not control and it's not responsibility. But, Mrs Pečanova, I wrote down, and I hope I understood everything because you said "with the limited potential of this government, the brain has concentrated on one family and Slovenia's nephews and brothers and so on. It looks like you already know how to write the board, the people who will be in the administration, whether they will sign the Caveman or the Jamnik or maybe Jaklič. Jaklič is also such a promising name for this coalition and so on. You know everything. Sometimes you get away with it, but they're not brain trusts, as you say, they're more capital trusts, here connected in these directorates. And in these capital trusts there are some families and some individuals also from this Parliament, a very important honest man from your congregation said to me last time: "You know, in these cartel arrangements and capital consequences, individual Members from this option were also present and are still sitting in Parliament." And I believe, just on the basis of the parliamentary salary of becoming a co-owner of the SCT or something like that is not possible, it is virtually impossible. It is necessary to have some better connections and some better details, but these are not brain trusts, these are capital trusts and the capital trusts are tied to this agency. And thank you for telling me that you feel part of the concentration of the brain trusts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u68	Mr Jerovšek, I have been challenged by your colleague, who is very clear and very transparent, of course, with his own personal and well-known malice tried to malign people around him again. But don't worry, you're going after him anyway, Mr. Jerovšek. You don't understand anything from what's said, and that's why replicating you doesn't make any sense, because explaining to you that you'll understand something is wasted time and good will.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u70	Although we are already used to the previous mandate to listen to the harsh insults of Mrs Breda Pecan both on the committees and in this National Assembly. For one thing, she was even able to justify herself in some slightly distorted way in the previous term, but she was able to do so. Here, instead of apologizing for what she used to say, she has further maligned two members of this National Assembly, accusing one of being limitedly employed, accusing the other of something similar, that she has some evil intentions, that I do not know what it is. In short, we keep listening to these accusations, these low-level instigations, when we haven't said anything other than what it is, and what my colleague also said is that obviously in some families, not only is there a lot of intelligence united, but there is a great, or otherwise capital potential that wants to control this Slovenia and nothing else has been said. Mrs. Pecan has recognized herself here, this is her sovereign right. However, I think that you, honourable Presidents, should give her a reminder in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because we have recently received this from the President of the National Assembly, that one of our colleagues, who is not here today, for significantly more minor matters, I think he has even twice or three times reminded him that he has taken the floor and prevented his further implementation. So I expect you to give a reminder in accordance with the provisions of Mrs Bredi Pecan's Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you. I see nothing terrible in this debate. She's a little more lively. Mr Jerovšek, you will get the debate, and Mr Žerjav has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have already mentioned in my debate that we are against this solution, i.e. against the establishment of an agency. We are also constantly opposed to the sale of state property. And stop, please, throwing everyone in the same basket because it's simply not true. Even when it came to Triglav, we resisted it. You must remember it very well. And it's not right and it's not fair to operate on it, but the opposition is all the same. That's not true! We have always opposed the sale of state property, especially financial and other institutions and infrastructure companies. And we have this attitude now. However, we are truly concerned about the presence of a minister in this government who advocates the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Thank God that in this same government there is also Minister Križanič, who is obviously fighting against it, and at this point, of course, Minister Križanič has our full support. Thank God he's in this government, because we'd obviously sell it all out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you. I'd like you to calm down and listen to the speaker. There's still a desire to discuss it, as I can see. I'm opening the application. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I have to answer my colleague, Brady Pecan, that I really don't know the meaning of cheating and greed. I don't have that, and here you can blame me for not understanding you, which was your property center when you were mayor of Izola, when state secretaries bought two hectares of agricultural land, which was then converted to construction land and so on, and so on, that was difficult to track. And I probably don't have that sense, and I don't have that brain. But we studied at about the same time. I finished chemistry and I was a good student and was considered a little harder to study than biology. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u75	Mr Jerovšek, this is not an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u76	Yeah, when he makes me feel bad for not understanding anything like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you. Anyone else want an amendment to Article 9 and the others that are connected? I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss Article 9 other than Montenegro? Nobody. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Among the provisions that have been repealed by this law - and this part seems particularly important to me, because we have always said that autonomy should be maintained to the greatest extent possible - you have also said this when you were in the opposition, the pension institution and the pension fund - are 246. and the other members of the law. By this law you repeal the provision which states: "The Capital Fund is a legal person established to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance." This fund is hereby terminated by this law with this agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the first related amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. As the amendment to Article 9 is the first of the related amendments, I inform you that, if the amendment to Article 9 is not adopted, the amendments to that article will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47 members.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to Article 29. Since the amendment to Article 29 under Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 31, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 29 and 31 and the amendments of the SDS Group to these Articles. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I think that the purpose of good governance of state property in state-owned enterprises is to make this property noble first by making state-owned enterprises for good companies that will be proud of the state, citizens and citizens and from which the state can offer environmental, social and environmental benefits. The first principle must be the nobility of this property. In the second paragraph of Article 29, the applicants propose that the purchase be made from the sale of state property as an additional source for the payment of pensions or the addition of transfer revenue to the account of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. This would mean that the state property is automatically invested in the current expenditure of the social treasury instead of buying from such assets in those selectively defined cases where it would eventually be decided to sell state assets in state-owned enterprises - so this is an immediate expense - instead of placing this state property in a new investment that would provide better returns to the state and so on. And in this respect, I find this third amendment to Article 29 particularly harmful. In the second amendment, they obviously want to re-alphatize what is the boundary of the property for which the disposal must give consent to the Government. If we look at the list of assets for all key ones, we see that the limit to 20 million of the total book value of the assets and not necessarily the share of the state in a particular company is a well-defined limit, which we have substantially reduced at the initiative of the coalition parties on the Committee. As far as the first amendment is concerned, the story that we have already discussed continues about the agency's purpose, yes or no. It seems to me that while some people have many national interests in their mouths that they do not trust in this country after today's debate. I trust in the country, I want this law to improve the management of state property, and I will therefore vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u82	It is interesting that in the days when very big struggles are taking place around the so-called pension reform here, in the National Assembly, there is a law that could ease these fights a little bit and the ruling coalition opposes it. Where, though, will the pension money come from if not from effective management of state property? It is one of the sources, if not, but the missing part will have to be made available somewhere from budgetary resources or what you are doing now by debt. For you once there is no problem because you have a good legacy, a 21.5% debt rate relative to GDP, now you are somewhere at 45%, by the end of your term you will reach about 70 and then you are not very far from the Greek script. But this term will not yet be on the Greek script, because the legacy was so good. And one of the motives for this amendment was that the efficiency of managing this property is seen directly in the pension register. This does not prevent the availability, the management, the exchange and so on. By the way, the public will receive a report on what will happen, of course, after completed procedures, after transfers, one or the other, have already taken place in a relatively narrow circle. And only in cases where a share worth more than EUR 20 million is involved will the Government give its prior consent. In all other cases, however, you have a regulation of EUR 300,000 for all minor matters. And one of the points in this meeting is this, this same National Assembly, is saying, here, when it comes to large shares, the huge asset is the value that is decided not by the National Assembly, the Government, 20 million euros, in another case when it comes to some parcels and I don't know what else, cars, but the value is 300 thousand euros. And that is why we propose that because the amendments are linked, at least at this point, this should be corrected and that we put these things in some normal context. What is essential and what I do not want to happen is that the intention of this law does not prevent it, but it is that you will be able to make the share given on the basis of the referendum expressed will in 2007 in the law of 2008 to the pensioners in the insurance company Triglav, now that it has been transferred to this framework of the agency, for example, theoretically, for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank in order to be able to grant a loan for the financing of the Sožice project. This is what I fear, and this is what we fear in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that you will actually be pouring money from pensioners to some of these or other modern-day tycoons. We should not have allowed this in this law, which is why we have proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Yeah, I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Luka Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u84	Well, you have to repeat yourself because we obviously don't listen. The question of transfers to Zpiz; it was already said that it was open when a property was being tried to privatize. In this case, it is not a matter of any privatisation, but it is a matter of clearly laying down certain criteria so that such privatisations do not take place. So that the country will not have to intervene tomorrow to resolve and seek solutions to imported concessions where citizens of other countries want to buy us, for example, the Postojna Cave concession. The imported concessions that have been awarded, we know when and we know in what way - very wrong. Now it is interesting that those who have contributed to this talk today so vehemently about investment and about wrong investments. Also in order to avoid the Mercator cases again, since, when the minutes were properly drawn up, shares under the table were no longer recorded or recorded as agreed. To avoid this looting sale of property under the principle "as long as we're in government, we'll pick as much as we can", but to manage it further according to the principle that "what we have now, we did not get from our predecessors, but we borrowed from our successors." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u85	Yeah, I can see the hands. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you. Why is this amendment so important and why would it be worth supporting the SDS proposal in order to strengthen the cash register of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia? Simply because the coalition in meeting its political interests, its strange, in my firm belief, the wrong priorities, this cashier has seriously damaged. What did the coalition do? It has adopted a special agreement signed in Belgrade, on the basis of which the funds are being disbursed, according to an estimate of one of Slovenia's central logbooks - it is interesting that the only one has published this estimate - at about €5.6 million per month, which means €60 million per year in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, while at the same time asking Slovenian pensioners to extend their working time, to tighten their retirement conditions and to reduce their pensions. And you're sending money south, just like you used to, because it's the only thing you know. Moreover, in these very days the next proposal for an agreement has already come to Parliament, and this time with Montenegro. In these circumstances it is again foreseen, and this is also stated in the explanation of that law, again a net outflow from the pension register, because the difference will be covered by those who were once servants in the territory of Slovenia and those who live here will be paid the difference. Again to the detriment of the Slovenian pension fund, at a time when it is sharpened for Slovenian pensioners, money is sent to the south. These are your priorities. And if at least a part of this, I am firmly convinced, would compensate for the wrong conduct, it would be good for it to be cashed up in such a way that it is earmarked for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u88	This money, which you will in some way withdraw from the pensioners, despite the fact that people have clearly defined themselves around this; by the way, we have again listened to lies about some privatisation of Triglav in the previous term. The point was that this portion was intended for the pensioners, and now you're taking it. And this amendment is intended solely to direct this money back to the pension box, especially when we hear large debates almost every day about how those who create daily bread and payment with their hands must work even more, for years and contribute to this pension box so that it does not run dry. On the other hand, you are taking the state property that should have resulted in the strengthening of this pension fund and that property that has already been provided to them and which they have also secured in the previous term by participating in a mass referendum at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you. I can still see the hands for the debate. I'm opening the application. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u90	I am happy to live in a developed world where some things apply to the principle of reciprocity. And as for our foreign nationals, we receive pensions from other countries, so for the citizens of other countries, on the principle of reciprocity, we need to ensure that they get work done in Slovenia and were provided with pension insurance in Slovenia, their share of the pension. On the one hand, we do, and on the other hand, we do. If we agreed on the concept that purchases from those potential and selectively selected sales of state-owned enterprises were to be made automatically to the Retirement and Disability Insurance Office for the current expenditure of this treasury, this would therefore mean that we are regularly squandering state assets and that this state property will continue to decline. On the contrary, we follow the concept that we want a pension reform, no matter what form it will eventually be proposed in the National Assembly, to follow that we make this system sustainable and that the state will not have to intervene every year with a billion means to actually offset the loss of the pension fund. On the other hand, by smart management of state assets, by good corporate governance, and by bringing in dividends from this management, which the State collects from the division of profits in these companies will, of course, fill the capital path of this country, so that more and more resources will be allocated to the smart management of this property and return to the state budget. This is our ambition, this is sustainable governance and we have good cases elsewhere in Europe, which are responsible for their property, but not for selling it away, so that nothing is left of it in the end. Such a concept will always be proudly resisted by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u92	Just for a little while. I would tell Mr Grimes that he's obviously only having problems with Serbia. But we never have a problem when, say, our pensioners who worked elsewhere, Austria, Germany, Italy, receive their pensions. Only Serbian workers should not receive our pensions or have settled social security matters that they have not had in over 20 years. So this is a special hatred for these pensioners. Then the representatives of the Serbian state come to Parliament for a friendly visit, and Mr Grims speaks to them kindly and says nothing when they thank us for signing the social agreement and so on. These are, my dears, duplicity. But I am happy and proud to live in a country where we respect international law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you. I propose that the opening material be distributed to everyone in the Chamber to the draft law, which is currently in the procedure governing the releasing of Slovenian funds, this time to Montenegro, will be clear on what this is about. After the break-up of Yugoslavia, the whole area was governed by the principle of permanent residence. All these contracts are in some way superstandard, they are a Slovenian free decision, but to make such decisions at a time when all Slovenian pensioners and pensioners are injured, when conditions for all Slovenian employees are tightened and funds are diverted to the south, this is a completely wrong policy and are wrong priorities. From this material, which I propose once again to be put on the table now, this will be crystal clear as to what this is - because it is a double outflow. We hide all those differences that live here, and at the same time send money south to all those who were once employed here. And, of course, it's not about any construction workers, it's about the employees of the central federal authorities, the community, the JLA and everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u95	Well, I will not put this motion to the vote. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Chappitch has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Of course, the debate that has now become heated about the amendment to this article speaks of completely different things, not those which are supposed to be the subject of the amendment. When we are talking about the availability and the funds allocated to the pension fund, it is, of course, very clearly stated here in this law, who will manage the management of the management rights and from whom they are transferred, not the funds, that is, all the funds remain, both in the pension register, but only because of corporate governance, due to the full management of the assets, the management rights are transferred to the agency and only this part is withdrawn from the law or from the Kad, which it has now managed. As for the property that is managed by Kad for the purposes of the pension fund, we will be dealt with in another law, not in this law. And that marriage is still waiting for us in the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see the hand. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. We're talking about paragraphs 29 and 31. Mr. Luka Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. There is only something else that needs to be specified, because sometimes this debate reminds us of family divisions, and when the interviewer loses all arguments, then opens something else. Yeah, but, two years ago, you weren't here. Then I was, but you didn't clean the tables yesterday. This is how this debate develops here. Then when we answer that question, we find something else. I'm just asking, let's stick to the argument. This amendment or this arrangement, as proposed, does not deprive anyone of anything but merely a much more transparent, clear and predetermined rule lays down the conditions for managing assets that no one is taking. Let's just leave the family debates somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision: we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 29 under Article 2. Since this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 31, I inform you that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 31 will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under Article 3. I'm opening an application for discussion. Check-in is on. There's no sign-in. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision: we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 29 under Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to Article 32 and am putting to the debate the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Of course, only those of you have a chance that you still have time. Mr. Potočnik, please. He's quitting. Mr Posedel. He's quitting. There's no sign-in. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment of Article 32 of the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Please explain your vote on behalf of the Members. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u100	We will vote against the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In our view, the adoption of this law will further distance us from those principles advocated by the OECD, which are principles of transparency, predictability, efficiency and accountability. Contrary to some of the opinions expressed today, this law also distances us from what is called independence. How this agency's organs will depend. They will depend, not on those who have been entrusted by voters in this country and entrusted with the mandate and responsibility to manage the country, but on individual or different spheres of interest. This is why this law should be drafted in the manner shown in the comparative review at the time of the introduction of this law into the legislative procedure by the Government. And that we are right, we are also visited by the transitional provisions of this law, which speak of management taking place through the Ministry of Finance, Directorate of Public Property, in the interim period until the establishment of the Agency's bodies. It means that this will be possible during this period, but otherwise this would not be possible. We cannot support the law either because it is inconsistent because it brings some unacceptable solutions and because it interferes with its provisions in the matter which has been discussed by a referendum and because it does not allow for the provision of an additional source of pension money, which we think is particularly important during this period of very painful discussions on pension reform. We believe that by listening to the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Government could give a very clear signal on this area and by directing the effects of managing this property to the pension register also showing that it is willing to contribute in some way to ensuring the long-term stability of this treasury. One of the provisions that is distinctly out of the others is the one that speaks of the consent of the Government and not of the National Assembly, as in other cases. At this meeting, we will decide on the availability of assets worth more than EUR 300,000, in which case it will only be necessary for the government to agree on investments worth more than EUR 20 million. In short, we're before the final sale, and that's what I'd call the "acceptance" of the rest of the state's assets. These are enormous investments that will be sold at relatively low prices due to the period in which only individual elite groups in the domain of the ruling coalition will be allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u102	Social Democrats want to enforce the conditions by adopting this law so that we can prove that the country can be a good owner of businesses. We want to ensure transparent, efficient and cost-effective management of state-owned enterprises, where the country will define by adopting a strategy in the National Assembly what it wants to do with an investment in an individual company, how it wants to develop this company, in order to ensure the development backbone of our national economy, which will at the same time be the economic essence of our national sovereignty. With a new, clear management model, which also brings a clear system of responsibility, we want to prevent any interference with state property, which we have witnessed in the past. Tomorrow, the Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development will be sitting to assess whether Slovenia has made progress in joining this distinguished international organisation. By adopting today's law, we will do another hook on the list of things Slovenia must do in order to become a member of this prestigious development club. In this respect, we would like to stress, however, that we do not adopt this law because of the OECD, we accept it from the responsibility of the country and to the property of citizens and citizens, in order to ensure responsible and economical management and management of state property. That is why the Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I will support the law, in particular because it has a number of positive effects, and in particular it increases the efficiency of the availability of state property, transparency, responsibility, predictability and, last but not least, the separation from daily policy as far as possible. If we go back to the amendment to Article 9. Here the most vocal critics and the amendment's proponents propose the establishment of a Directorate. But that would be what would depend even more on the day-to-day policy, on one ministry and on one minister alone. On the other hand, on the other hand, we do not accept the law due to Slovenia's entry into the OECD, but it is precisely such solutions as are contained in this law that this important community requires and imposes. And to those who have seen that marriage solutions introduce and potentise wild property, the rhetorical question: Do you think that wild ownership is one of the goals advocated by the OECD? I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 24. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PAYMENT SERVICES AND SYSTEMS LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Please calm down and leave the hall quietly for lunch!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u106	Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is discussing today the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which was transmitted by the Government. Allow me to present briefly the main purpose of the bill and its essential content. The main purpose is to transpose the European rules adopted or published after the adoption of the Law on Payment Services and Systems, in July 2009. Thus, for example, a regulation on cross-border payments in the community was published in September 2009 on the basis of which Slovenia has to lay down sanctions for infringements of the provisions of the Regulation by 1 June this year. The Regulation also requires Member States to designate bodies for the resolution of disputes out of court and appoint a body responsible for the supervision of the implementation of the Regulation. Thus, the law provides that the provisions of Article 218 of the Law on Payment Services and Systems shall apply to resolve disputes under the Regulation and that the Bank of Slovenia shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Regulation. In view of the fact that, following the adoption of the Law on Payment Services and Systems, a revision of the Internal Market Payment Services Directive has been published, which was implemented by the Act, the proposed amendment is taken into account. The proposal for a law in this regard provides for the possibility that a payment service provider and a non-consumer may agree that the user cannot revoke the consent given for the execution of a payment transaction or payment transaction set. In accordance with the amended Directive on the finality of settlement of securities payments and settlement systems, the proposal for a law defines related payment systems. These are payment systems that, on the basis of an agreement between payment system operators, enable participants to carry out settlement orders in another related payment system. The following is an amendment to the Internal Market Payment Services Directive, where the bill extends the range of payment service providers where banks are located at branches of banks from third countries. Finally, the draft law also transposes into law the provisions of the Regulation implementing the Regulation on payer data accompanying transfers of funds to be abolished. The reason for regulating this area in the law is the Offences Act, which provides that only a law and no regulation may authorise a criminal authority to impose a higher fine than the minimum prescribed limit. In practice, the need to impose higher penalties than the minimum laid down in certain cases, due to the nature of the infringements or repeated infringements, has been demonstrated. In addition, the bill provides a higher quality of data in the transaction accounts register, allowing the beneficiary user of the data contained in this register to clearly identify the holder of the individual transaction account. For banks only check the identification data when the transaction account is opened, and therefore further correct processing data on the holders can only be provided with confidence in the register by comparing and coordinating the data with the data in the home registers or records. Thus, the data on the holders of the transaction accounts in the register will be consistent with the business register, with the central population register and with the tax register. Dear Members and Members, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the vice president of the committee, mag. Radovan Žerjav for presentation report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. At its 16th meeting, on 18 April 2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with the legislative and technical view and on it in the context of business-specific tasks, has no comments requiring amendment. Otherwise, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, some minor editorial corrections are required in the text, which the service will be able to carry out in cooperation with the proposer when preparing the publication law. In the context of the supplementary working material, the Committee was informed of the comments submitted by the Agency for Public Records and Services on Article 146 of the basic law to the Committee by the amendment proposal by Article 13 of 18 March, and by an analogous proposal from the amendment of the Association of Banks of Slovenia to the definitively modified attached text of 1. 4. 2010 Not on this basis have the four coalition groups tabled an amendment to Article 13 of the legislative proposal. The amendment of the coalition groups to Article 13 in the new paragraph 5 of Article 146 proposes that banks, the Republic of Slovenia Public Procurement Authority and other payment service providers be given access to and use of the transaction account numbers of natural and legal persons from the transaction account register in order to verify the existence of a transaction account in the performance of payment services and the effective delivery of payment services. Access to other data on the transaction accounts of natural persons for the purpose of managing payment services shall be made available to providers if they have already had a certain combination of information on the holders of the account. This improves the quality of the delivery of political services to users and also to providers. In its consideration of the individual articles of the amendment, the Committee adopted four coalition groups on Article 13 of the legislative proposal. The Committee, under Rule 128 of its Rules of Procedure, voted on all the articles of the legislative proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which that amendment is incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting. It's all in the hall. The DeSUS Group will support the amendment under consideration. It does not introduce any new system solutions, nor does it significantly interfere with the existing system of payment services and payment systems, but rather with the implementation of European rules. A major change concerns the definition of related payment systems and the transfer of provisions relating to the jurisdiction of criminal authorities, since, on the basis of the last Bank of Slovenia and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering, they will be given the power to impose penalties appropriate to the nature of the offences, which DeSUS Members consider and to be positive and necessary. The other changes included in this amendment also relate to ensuring greater competitiveness between payment service providers, equalising the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments to other payment service providers with regard to access to data on transactions accounts of natural persons to the implementation of the rules on penalties for infringements and the like. It is prepared professionally and correctly, which is also reflected in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which did not have any comments on the text. However, we have listened to the comments of the Association of Banks of Slovenia in our Group on the access and use of the transaction account numbers of the persons in the register and we have signed the amendment that was adopted on the home labour body, as we have estimated that the quality of payment service delivery for users and payment service providers will be better by this definition. The number of errors of payment service users will be limited and additional information will enable the verification of the payee's identity and the existence of a transaction account. Members of the DeSUS in support of the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Payment Services and Systems do not have any reservations, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much. In fact, in the Slovenian National Party, we do not like to adopt a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which entered into force on 1.11.2009, says four months ago, and clearly stated that access to data on transactions of natural persons in the Register of Transaction Accounts has been discontinued for banks. After four months, who knows for some reason, we change the law in a diametrically opposite way — a four - month - old marriage. It's too bad to say that someone didn't know what they were doing before, or now someone doesn't know what they were doing. I really don't get it. It has been four months since the access was clearly withdrawn, but access is now needed. We also do not like in the Slovenian National Party that for a long time and a while criminal authorities are becoming all those who have five minutes of time and can determine and share forgives or misdemeanours, however they may think. The Bank of Slovenia and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia have now even been given the opportunity to impose appropriate penalties in view of the seriousness of the infringements and so on. Both of these content are not serious for the Slovenian National Party. And once again, whatever you think, on November 1st last year, we broke something off, and on April 20th this year, we're putting what we stopped back in place. The infractional organ will soon be every chancellor. He will be able to do what he wants on behalf of a certain Europe's request that a country should introduce something by one day. I don't know if the demand for these changes, which I mentioned, so these two, was not clear as early as November last year; I think it was. In the Slovenian National Party, there are attempts to change the law as it once seemed, and if it was a little bit missing, then the second time it will fix a little bit - we object. We have too many important laws that we should coordinate, rather than play with directives, directives, on the basis of our own ignorance and incompetence. That is why we will certainly not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State and co-worker! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems. The proposed amendments transpose the provisions of the European Directives and also of the European Regulations into Slovenian legislation. This is the implementation of the solutions for the equalisation of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments with other payment service providers with regard to the eligibility of data on transactions accounts of natural persons. Amendments to the law will also provide for the possibility for both criminal authorities, if the nature of the offence so requires, to impose higher fines than the minimum prescribed, because fines for offences under the European regulation are set out in the range. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are also of the opinion that the proposed solutions, which are linked to allowing more payment service providers, to determine the powers of the Bank of Slovenia as well as the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering for Sentences and further aligning the Administration for Public Payments with other payment service providers with regard to data access, are appropriate and appropriate. That is why we will support the amendment of the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greeting from the secretary of state with the coworkers! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems. Our support is mainly because we are aligning our legislation with European legislation with the amendment of the Law on Payment Services and Systems in the vast majority of the changes. In particular, the implementation of the Regulation on cross-border payments in the Community and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council are regulated in more detail in our legislation. The amendment sets out the competent authority for the supervision of the implementation of the Regulation, the criminal authority, the appeal procedure for users of cross-border payment services and the procedure for the peaceful resolution of disputes between users and providers of cross-border payments. We also consider it important to amend the law that is necessary to transpose the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, which regulates in more detail the role of banks that depend on central institutions, certain own funds items, large exposures, supervisory regimes and crisis management. In addition to the provisions relating to the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with the EU acquis, changes relating to the functioning of payment systems in our internal market are also important. The proposal for a law to enable the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to benefit from data on the transaction accounts of natural persons and compares it with other payment service providers, since there is no reason in this respect for a different treatment of the public authority responsible for the provision of payment services to direct users of the State budget and the budget of the self-government local communities. Amendments to the Law on Payment Services should be underlined by the amendments laid down in Article 13 of the Act supplementing Article 146 of the Act. Under the Payment Systems and Services Act, which began to apply on 1 November 2009, access to data on transactions accounts of natural persons in the Register of Transaction Accounts was discontinued for banks. Banks are like that with 1. 11. have lost information on where the bank has an open transaction bank account and where these banks are subject to an enforcement decision. As a result of a change in the law, the individual bank does not know which bank is subject to an enforcement decision, in the event that, as the primary bank, due to an inactive or closed transaction account, returns the enforcement decision, it only informs those banks that are aware of it in the enforcement decision. However, in view of the fact that the primary bank has not been able to inspect the transaction accounts register, it cannot inform the other banks which have received the enforcement decision for the purpose of extending the enforcement of the debtor’s money to payment organisations with the new transaction account and thus have been given an opportunity to those who have been required to execute the money by means of enforcement, to carry out, on a skilled evasive basis, that the route has been much longer to be executed or might not have been executed at all. For this reason, the coalition parties, on a proposal from the Bank of Slovenia and Apes with the amendment in the new paragraph 146 of Article 146, proposed that banks, the Republic of Slovenia Public Payments Agency and other payment service providers be given access to and use of the transaction account numbers of natural and legal persons from the Register of Transaction Accounts for the purpose of verifying the existence of a transaction account in the execution of payment services and the effective execution of payment services and possible executions related thereto. The proposed amendment, which will allow payment service providers, which is in accordance with Article 140 of the Payment Systems Act in Slovenia, to carry out an enforcement decision allowing access to data on the tax accounts of natural persons from the Register of Transaction Accounts, will ensure easier and more ongoing implementation of enforcement decisions. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems, and I hope that this will allow for a slightly easier payment traffic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and everyone else! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which was tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure following a reduced procedure, will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the Parliamentary Group. In fact, there are minor changes in the context of the transposition of European rules into the Slovenian legal order and some other changes in the provision of payment services. The amendment of the law will thus make the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia equal to other payment service providers with regard to the eligibility of data on the transaction accounts of natural persons for the purposes defined in Article 145 of the Act. Furthermore, the Bank of Slovenia and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia will be enabled to prevent money laundering as a criminal authority on the basis of powers in the event that the nature of the offence so requires, to impose appropriate or higher fines than those prescribed. This has not been possible so far, since the fines were set within the range. By extending the range of payment service providers to branches of banks from third countries, greater competitiveness will be ensured between payment service providers. It also makes sense to supplement Article 146 of the Law on Payment Services and Systems in order to allow all payment service providers access to transaction accounts data in order to verify the existence of these. This will reduce the number of payers' errors, reduce the costs of complaints and thus increase the effectiveness of payment services. Access to data will be provided to payment service providers in the event that they already have a combination of data on the tax number and the name and surname, or a combination of the name and surname and address of the natural person's residence. This bill is also intended to improve the payment insurance instrument, that is, the currency. According to Ms Kamnar, at the time of the public presentation of the opinions, in the role of the Secretary of State, this amendment should prevent the owner or issuer of the currency from unilaterally withdrawing this, while the current system has made this possible. I must say that this cannot be clearly understood from the proposal, as the amendment is only in this part to delete Article 139, paragraph 3, which states that the Bank of Slovenia lays down uniform rules for the execution of payment transactions on the basis of a payment order for the monetaryisation of the dominant currency. These changes and anticipated changes in the field of menu law are expected to improve the situation in the area of payment non-discipline. As stated in the introduction, we support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Amendments to and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems adopted last July are necessary in order to bring the law into line with the amendments adopted after this deadline. The deadlines for the harmonisation of national legislation with the amended European rules shall expire in different periods within the second half of this year from 1 July to 31 December. On the basis of the proposed amendments to the law in line with the amended European rules, legislative changes define related payment systems and allow participants in related payment systems to carry out settlement tasks transmitted to the relevant payment system in another related payment system. In the criminal area, legal changes allow the Bank of Slovenia and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering, as criminal authorities, from punishing the nature of the offences committed. The above-mentioned criminal authorities had no legal basis for imposing appropriate penalties in relation to the severity of the offence. In addition, the proposed amendments to the law provide for an appeal procedure for users of payment systems and other interested parties or for an out-of-court dispute resolution procedure. In addition, the expansion of the payment service provider circle will ensure greater competitiveness between payment service providers. However, from the point of view of access to data on the transaction accounts of natural persons, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments shall be equivalent to other payment service providers. The amendment adopted on the home working body on access to natural person’s transaction accounts for the purpose of providing payment services on the basis of the available combination of account holder data provides for conditions to improve the quality of payment service delivery. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Amendments and additions to the Payment Services and Systems Act are prepared in view of the fact that several European rules have been published since the adoption of the basic law, which, according to the applicant, should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. Thus, the basic law is in line with the three European directives and the regulation. It also contains some non-problem adjustments to provisions that are not subject to the requirements of European rules. There are no reasons for not supporting the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on the transfer of the deceased's rights. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forwarded to the National Assembly a law on the transfer of pension rights, the key purpose of which is to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the requirements of the EU acquis. Only through the adoption of that law will it be possible to directly implement the provisions of the EU Regulation which provide for the right to transfer pension rights to all employees in EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. With Slovenia's accession to the EU in 2004, the provisions of the Staff Regulations, which are the basic act of employees in the EU institutions and bodies, also entered into force for our country. That act sets out the rights arising from employment, including the specificities of pension insurance relating to the possibility of transferring the capital values of pension rights from the pension system of Member States to the EU pension system and vice versa. The Republic of Slovenia will have to guarantee the right to transfer the capital values of Slovenian insurers employed in EU institutions from 1 May 2004, but actual transfers of pension rights to today could not be realized because there was no possibility of converting the rights into capital amounts which could then be transferred. Similarly, the legislation in force does not allow the transfer of the actuarial value of pension rights from the EU pension system to the Slovenian pension system, as there is no legal basis to convert such values into pension and disability insurance rights. The law that stands before you solves this particular problem. The law establishes a legal basis for the conversion of rights to capital values that will be transferred to the EU pension system and vice versa. The legal basis for determining the level of entitlements according to the transferred actuarial equivalent for the Slovenian pension and disability scheme is laid down. Finally, let me point out that transposition is already possible under a regulation of the European Union that is directly in force and that this law governs only the legal basis for calculating the level of rights. At the same time, it must be clarified that the calculation takes into account all the fundamental principles on which the applicable pension system is based in the Republic of Slovenia. More specifically, this means that the calculation takes into account the principles of reciprocity and solidarity, the responsibility of the State, employers and the personal responsibilities of the insurers who are provided with the necessary financial resources to implement this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u126	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered the proposal for a law on the second reading of the transfer of pension rights submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. A representative of the proposer, Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was also informed of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The comments of the PSC were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the SD, Ares, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 22. The Committee also received the opinion of the Council of State of 17.3.2010, which supported the bill and expressed some concerns in its opinion. The Committee was informed of the Government's written position on this opinion. It explains that the pension scheme for workers in EU institutions is regulated by the Staff Regulations and their implementing acts. They thus set out the conditions for obtaining the right to a pension, the transfer of pension rights, the amount of contributions and the calculation of pensions. In the introductory explanation of the bill, the State Secretary presented the reasons, objectives and principles that led the Government in the drafting of the bill. The aim of the proposal for a law on the transfer of pension rights is to realize those rights arising from EU staff rules. The bill provides the legal basis for the transfer of contributions paid to pension insurance in the Republic of Slovenia prior to the entry into the EU's pension system. However, in the event of termination of employment with the EU institution, body, office or agency and return to the Republic of Slovenia, the possibility of transferring funds from the EU pension system to the pension system of the Republic of Slovenia is provided. The proposed law ensures the realization of all the principles enshrined in those provisions and, most notably, the principle of reciprocity and solidarity. The transfer of pension rights to the Slovenian pension system may, however, require a person who has ceased to work with the institution, body, office or agency of the EU and is required to participate in pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Slovenia. The necessary financial resources will be provided from the contributions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, but if expenditure exceeds income, the necessary resources will be provided from the State budget. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups to Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 22. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Only this is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The law on the transfer of pension rights actually implements the Slovenian acquis by requiring European Union legislation. In accordance with the Staff Regulations, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to provide persons who have already completed the period of pension insurance in the Republic of Slovenia or who have acquired other pension rights and, in the case of employment with the EU institution, to regulate the possibility of transferring these rights to the European Union pension system. In addition, the situation of those persons whose working relationship with institutions in the European Union has to be regulated and returned to the Republic of Slovenia should also be regulated. The adoption of the law on the transfer of pension rights will thus regulate the right of employees in the institutions and bodies, offices of the European Union, who already have, directly under the Staff Regulations, the right to transfer pension rights to the European Union system and the transfer of funds from the European Union system, to the pension system of the Republic of Slovenia on the termination of employment in the institutions of the European Union, as has already been said twice today. It is therefore also a way to calculate or calculate the amount of pension rights and the valorised sum of contributions for persons employed in these institutions in the bodies, offices of the European Union and will be entitled to transfer the capitalised value of pension rights under the Staff Regulations. Many things have already been said today that I will not repeat, mainly everything is justified and we agree with this in the Slovenian National Party. Otherwise, we support the bill, but we could in some way attach to the opinion of the Council of State and their members that such a way of regulating the pensions of employees in the bodies of the European Union should also create a layer of privileged bureaucrats, which is not in accordance with the constitutions of individual European Union countries, which defines equality before law and pension laws on the principle of solidarity and reciprocity. There are certain reservations, reservations, concerns about this, but this harmonisation is necessary and we must accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the adoption of the Law on the Transfer of Pension Rights. With the entry into force of our country into the European Union, the 1968 Council Regulation laying down the Staff Regulations and Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Community has also entered into force and it is necessary to ensure consistent implementation of the provisions. Slovenian legislation currently does not allow the implementation of the provisions of the Staff Regulations relating to the transfer of pension rights. In accordance with the Staff Regulations, Slovenia is obliged to regulate the possibility of transferring these rights to the European Union pension system to persons who have already completed our pension insurance period or who have acquired other pension rights. In addition, the situation of those persons who cease their employment relationship with the European Union and return to the Republic of Slovenia should be regulated by law. The proposal for a law on the transfer of pension rights regulates this situation and gives the legal basis for the transfer of contributions paid to pension insurance in the Republic of Slovenia prior to the entry into the European Union's pension system. However, in the event of termination of employment with the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the European Union and the return to the Republic of Slovenia, the possibility of transferring funds from the European Union pension system to the pension system of the Republic of Slovenia is open. The principles on which this law is based are not different from the Slovenian pension system, but the most prominent are the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. The necessary financial resources will be provided from the contributions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, but if the expenditure exceeds the revenue, the necessary resources will be provided from the State budget. As I said, at the LDS Club, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Marijan Križman will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good day to you all! Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is another law before us that is not politically particularly interesting, but it is still important. The law on the transfer of pension rights means the transposition of European Union legislation, more specifically the Staff Regulations into the Slovenian legal order. At the moment, Slovenian legislation in this area is not regulated by the acquis of the European Union, as it does not allow persons who have already completed an insurance period in Slovenia under pension insurance or other pension rights to be transferred to the pension system of the European Union. From the point of view of the recognition of pension rights, the situation of those persons who cease their employment relationship with the EU institution, body, office or agency and return to Slovenia is also unregulated. The current legislation does not provide for a way of converting allowances into capital amounts that would be transferred to the EU pension system. Nor does it allow the actuarial value of pension rights to be transferred to the Slovenian pension system, as there is no legal basis to convert such values into pension and disability benefits. All this proposed law is properly regulated and it is therefore necessary to adopt it in this respect. There were no comments in the process of adopting the law on its contents, and we also fully agree with the content of the law in the Group of Social Democrats, and we will therefore also support it by voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u134	Your Honor! The title of the law suggests very important matter, but the content shows that it is only a matter for transposition of EU legislation. The financial implications are not known either, as the bill states, and I quote: "The necessary financial resources will be provided from the revenue from the institution's contributions, but if the expenditure exceeds the revenue, the necessary resources will be provided from the state budget." A comparison with the functioning of the current government is offered on its own. Ambitious forecasts, but content becomes empty, unacceptable for a large majority or, as in this case, implementation of the EU Regulation. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments and opinions to a third of the articles, also points to the current functioning of the Government: quick but confused decisions without real effects. That's too bad. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr. Svetlik is one of the most active ministers who is trying to prepare positive proposals, but practice shows different guidelines as they are envisioned at the Ministry, and the voice of the people too often shows red light, which the Government often overlooks. Finally, I would like to point out that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal for a law and we call on the Government to listen to the people's voice that social dialogue remains not only in words but also in actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, chairman. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, different situations have arisen for individual citizens of the European Union as well as ours in the integration into the regular working relationship. With our active membership, a large number of Slovenian citizens have also received regular employment in the institutions of the European Union. The regulation of their status and the transfer of certain rights is governed by the Council Regulation laying down the Staff Regulations for Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants in the European Community and the introduction of specific measures temporarily applicable to Commission officials, together with the Common Name of the Staff Regulations, as already mentioned today. According to them, Slovenia is obliged to regulate the possibility of transferring these rights to the pension system of the European Union to persons who have already completed our pension insurance period or who have already acquired other pension rights. It is also necessary to regulate the situation of those persons who end their working relationship when they carry out their mandates with the European institutions and return home. Slovenian legislation for once transferring these rights to the pension system of the European Union does not allow, nor does it allow the transfer of rights to the Slovenian pension system, and therefore the adoption of this law is an urgent one in our parliamentary group. The substance of the proposal is, in fact, to determine how to convert rights into capital amounts that would be the subject of a transfer to the European pension system and to allow the transfer of actuarial value of pension rights into the Slovenian pension system. It is based on a written, so-called "pay as you go" system and therefore the transfer of rights is only possible on the basis of the flat-rate value of repurchase, which is one of the options offered by the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. In doing so, it is not possible to mention that if the solutions set out in the new pension reform will be introduced some fictitious accounts based on Scandinavian examples, this conversion into the future could be easier, more transparent, more transparent. In the Parliamentary Group, indeed, we stress that the introduction of the possibilities for the transfer of pension rights is still based on the principle of reciprocity and intergenerational solidarity, which are the foundation of our Slovenian pension system. Perhaps even if a similar law had been in force in the former federation, then today we would not have heard the debates that the previous agenda had been heard from the opposition's bench; the lack of understanding of the rights arising from social insurance and the obligations that individual countries and individual pension systems have had on people who have worked and contributed in the area where these schemes cover social security. However, with the implementation of this law on the transfer of pension rights, it should be noted, of course, that only one transfer to the European Union pension scheme and one transfer of pension rights into the pension system of the Member States, i.e. Slovenia, is possible. For all of this, we will truly support this bill in the Group of Members - a new policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the bill does not interfere with a very sensitive area, as we are aware that the transfer of pension rights from our pension system can further weaken the already empty pension allowance. The proposal lays down the legal basis in accordance with the Staff Regulations for the transfer of contributions paid to pension insurance in Slovenia and provides for the calculation of the resources of the individual transferred in the pension system of the European Union. Any beneficiary of the transfer of pension rights may also decide to transfer funds held in the account of supplementary pension insurance in the Republic of Slovenia. After the transfer of funds in Slovenia, however, it can no longer exercise the rights of compulsory pension and disability insurance. While the Government argues in its opinion or response to the State Council that all the basic principles on which the pension system in the Republic of Slovenia is based are taken into account when transferring: the principle of reciprocity and solidarity, the responsibility of the State, employers and the personal responsibility of the insurers who provide the necessary financial resources for the implementation of this system. Furthermore, the Government argues that the proposed law ensures the realization of these principles and their consequences and, most notably, the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. However, nowhere does the Government explain or substantiate how and how the implementation of these principles in the transfer of rights is ensured. In our opinion, the law should also make more specific the content of the administrative agreement on the measures necessary for the implementation of this law, such as the forms, confirm, and in particular the importance of identifying liaison bodies and other details as regards the exchange of information necessary for the implementation of this law. On the other hand, the law also regulates the possibility of transferring pension rights from the European Union system to the pension system of the Republic of Slovenia for persons who have ceased their employment in the European Union and who are involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The law in our legal order implements the rules of the Staff Regulations, which are the basis for the realization of the rights relating to pension rights of officials employed in bodies, offices, agencies and other institutions of the European Union. In accordance with these rules, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to regulate the possibility of transferring these rights to the pension system of the European Union to persons who have already completed the period of pension insurance in the Republic of Slovenia or who have acquired other pension rights in the event of employment with the institutions of the European Union. It is also necessary to regulate the situation of those persons who cease their employment relationship with the institutions of the European Union and return to the Republic of Slovenia. This should enable them to transfer pension rights from the Union system to the pension system of the Republic of Slovenia. The Staff Regulations have entered into force directly in the Republic of Slovenia with the entry into the European Union, but transfers of pension rights due to the lack of legal basis have not yet been actually realized in specific cases. The Republic of Slovenia has therefore already been warned by the European Commission that a procedure for infringements of the Union's legal order will be initiated if this area is not properly regulated. As these officials are not subject to the same practice of recognition of the pension age as between Member States, as the status of employees in the institutions of the European Union is not linked to the free movement of workers and are not subject to the rules on the application of social security schemes, it is clear that this legal fact is also the reason why the area is regulated as proposed. Of course, at the initial stage our budget will also be burdened, as it provides for coverage of the difference between revenue and expenditure of the PSI. In the coming years, however, there is an increase in the flow of financial resources from the European Union to our pension fund. Thus, the difference between the outflows and the inflows to our cash flow will gradually decrease dramatically. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the amended bill is adequately prepared and will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gardens, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Alenka Kovšca, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the law on kindergartens, changes and additions. I would only like to draw attention to the key solutions proposed. The first concerns the provision of kindergarten facilities, namely the new 10a. And a new 10b. Article 1 10a. Article allows for the accommodation of kindergarten facilities in non-purpose buildings without altering the purpose of the facilities. 10b. it provides for all stages of spatial planning in the municipality as well as funding for the construction of kindergarten where the investor is private. A six-hour simultaneous presence of the educator and the assistant educator shall be determined in the dislocated units of the kindergarten, with one section, adding new value and new quality of work in distributed units. Third time. The process of including children in kindergartens is simplified in the event of under-inclusion. It is easy to complement the role of parents by e-mail, telephone or even oral, publication of the priority order and waiting list on the kindergarten website. The delivery of notifications and other decisions of kindergarten to parents, regular mail and e-mails is simplified. However, for municipalities that are the founders of several kindergartens, such as a large city congregation, the course of the single entry into all kindergartens is determined. Fourth time. Public publication of data on preschool children's guardians is determined on the Ministry's website. Fifth. It is simplified to keep records of children in kindergartens in view of the principle of proportionality in the collection of personal data. Six. The Act summarises the provisions of the Law on the Financing of Education and Education, which definitively regulates the position of professional workers affected by the new school legislation of 16 March 1996. We also say that representatives of the Community of kindergartens of Slovenia and the Association of Directors and Directors of kindergartens of Slovenia and of both representative associations of municipalities, the Community of municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia were always involved in the preparation of the law. The unions also supported that proposal, and we expect Members to support it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I give my word to the president of Mrs. Mag. Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on kindergartens on a regular basis at its 16th session on 8 April this year. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and, from a legislative and technical point of view, made comments to Article 12. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, in its opinion, supported the proposal for a law, and also supported the Community of kindergartens in Slovenia's view that a regulation on normative and minimum technical conditions for kindergarten space and equipment and the comments of the Municipality of Domžalje on the inadmissibility of reservations for children who will meet the conditions for entry into kindergarten only during the year. The Committee also received opinions from the municipalities of Domžale, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the municipalities of Gorenje vas-Poljane and Community proposals from the municipalities of Slovenia. The amendments were tabled by four parliamentary groups, namely the Social Democrats, Zares, DeSUS and LDS, to the eight articles of the law and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to two articles of the law. The committee was attended by representatives of the proposer, namely the Ministry of Education and Sport, on his behalf Minister of Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšič and Director of the Directorate for kindergartens and primary school Boris Črnilec, and representative of the Law and Legal Service of Nataš Voršič. The representative of the proponents presented an additional explanation for the bill in the introduction, said that the adoption of the amendment would improve the quality of the admission and admission procedures for children to kindergarten, that municipalities would be able to provide more effective facilities for the needs of kindergartens, that the records led by kindergartens would be simplified and that a public-private partnership in their construction would be possible. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of their comments were taken into account in the proposed amendments to the coalition and that minor corrections and substantive considerations were noted in the individual articles. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 2 and 6 of the novel and to the amendments tabled thereto. The discussion focused on the issue of kindergarten facilities in unintended buildings and the way in which the child is received into kindergarten or placed on the waiting list. With regard to the provision of additional premises, the solution to the use of unintended premises was supported. Other discussers felt that it was necessary to plan kindergartens early enough, but of course they were also interested in the costs that parents have with the protection of those children for whom there is no room in kindergarten. In the course of the debate on the method of service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the amendment provided for a different method of service of the decision, as provided for in the General Administrative Procedure Act. Some of the discussers supported this solution, while another part of the debaters felt that the recommended mail would be more appropriate for sending the decisions than normal and that the procedures should continue to be followed by the Administrative Procedure Act. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments: the first amendment to Article 2, Article 3, the second amendment to Article 4, Article 5, Article 6, the first and second amendments to Article 8 and the amendment to Articles 9 and 11. He did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group. Two amendments were withdrawn. The Committee has also adopted three amendments and, on the basis of the debate and amendments adopted, a complementary draft law has been prepared and is being forwarded to members and Members of Parliament and recommended for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye again! Today, there is a generally accepted professional view that quality preschool education has a positive impact on the development and learning of preschool children. A spinner offers children experience different from that of a family or unorganized private protection. One of the more important objectives of organising preschool education is to complement family education. As parents become increasingly aware of the importance of their children’s involvement in kindergartens, the vast majority of them want to be children in kindergarten. Without false modesty, we can also say that our kindergartens are human, professional and substantively one of the best in the European Union. The proportion of pre-school children involved in various forms of organised protection and pre-school education programmes has increased in recent years. Thus, according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the school year 2008/2009, 70% of children of the relevant age were enrolled in kindergarten. Slovenia is also approaching the Barcelona targets, which is 90% of the children involved in the second age period. Slovenia's legislation has already followed the objective of 1995 to allow families with a wide variety of offers to choose between different kindergartens and programmes, as the 1995 White Paper says. It is also important to ensure a democratically organised system of public kindergartens that are accessible to every preschool child and to maintain and, where appropriate, expand a high-quality network of public kindergartens. The amendments to the law before us are aimed at further achieving the objectives of pre-school education and are therefore supported by the LDS Club. As the number of births has increased in recent years, changes have also resulted in free kindergarten arrangements for another child, and in many local environments there has been a shortage of free places in kindergartens. Therefore, the amendment seeks to facilitate the situation of local communities in the search for new facilities for kindergarten departments. Thus, the new municipality will be able to provide kindergarten facilities in buildings which are not built for the purpose of kindergartens, provided that they have already been granted a valid permit, nor will these premises need to be modified to carry out preschool training activities. A maximum of two wards of kindergarten will be allowed to be opened in them. Two sections in the building mean that they do not need to be operated largely in the area of installation, there is no need to provide additional parking spaces for parents and others, which means that there is still an acceptable impact on the environment. More than that, it could lead to some problems; according to a certain impact on the environment, a change in the destination of the facility should be obtained and the substance of the solution proposed by the Ministry would be undermined. However, the easier possibility of obtaining locations for new departments does not mean that local communities can avoid responsibility for the construction of new kindergartens. The amendment of the law imposes on local communities that in the implementation part of the municipal spatial plan they must identify areas for pre-school education activities and further build new capacities according to needs. At the LDS, we would like to highlight other good solutions in the novel. Article 3 thus ensures the effective implementation of the 1999 kindergarten curriculum in a shorter programme that can be implemented by the child-breeder, and also ensures the simultaneous presence of the teacher and the assistant educator for at least six hours of the kindergarten department located in a separate location. The priority is also given by the more clearly recorded provisions regarding the admission of children to kindergarten, as well as the placement of children on lists and the communication of parents. It also partially simplifies the communication of parents and thus reduces the costs of kindergartens, while not reducing the legal certainty of clients in the proceedings to a new procedure. We support the solution that the congregations have been expecting for some time. Thus, the law introduces a system of uniform enrolment of children into kindergartens performed by public services, i.e. kindergartens where the founder of the municipality is and where it is a kindergarten with a concession. Today's amendment to the Kindergarten Act finally regulates the status of some of the professionals in kindergartens who, under the old legislation, have reached an educational level for each job but not according to the new legislation. In order to ensure their employment position, a change to the Kindergarten Act is now introduced, as it has been arranged for teachers with a provision, into the ZOFVI. In the LDS Group we will support the proposed coalition amendment, but we do not support the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. We do not support the marriage solution for children who do not have a place in kindergartens to receive monetary compensation from local communities. Since pre-school education is the responsibility of the local community, of course it is up to them to decide whether or not to make such a compensation, the state cannot impose such a solution on the local community. However, the solution is particularly controversial in terms of the importance of institutional education for children. The municipalities could use this to discourage the construction of new kindergartens, since it would be easier to give parents money than to build new kindergartens. This is contrary to all the expertise and knowledge of the importance of institutional protection. We do not support such an approach in LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Mr Andrej Richtar on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u148	Nicely greeted! Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new law on kindergartens. The main objective of the proposal is to create conditions for the inclusion of as many children as possible in institutionalised pre-school curricula. Many domestic and foreign experts have found that the inclusion of children in kindergartens has a positive impact on the development of social competences, improvement, commitment to compulsory education and impact on achieving better results in further education. Visiting kindergartens can also replace any development and knowledge deficits resulting from a less stimulating environment from which these children also come. The number of children involved in kindergartens has increased in recent years. Thus, the proportion of children enrolled in pre-school education increased by almost 14% between 2000 and 2009. Unfortunately, the investment activities of some local communities associated with the country have not been followed by an encouraging trend resulting from an increase in natural growth and positive measures by the State. Spatial pressures in kindergartens proved to be widespread in the past autumn, when, after the first entries on waiting lists, there were still a few thousand children left. The problem therefore requires rapid action, which must not be a reason to deviate from the established quality of preschool education in our country, so the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law that will allow preschool programmes to take place in housing and other facilities without having to change their destination. In doing so, it should be emphasized that these dislocated units of parental kindergarten with a maximum of two departments, which will operate under the same staffing and spatial requirements as for any other kindergarten. The aim is to avoid inappropriate planning of the spatial conditions of pre-school education in the future. The proposal also requires municipalities to provide spaces for preschool education in preparation of spatial plans, so that we will no longer witness the long-term search for suitable placement of kindergartens in the local community’s environment, since kindergarten will already be provided for in a spatial act of the municipality. Creating a legal basis for greater involvement of children in preschool education is only one of the important innovations brought by the novel proposal. Among them, it is certainly necessary to emphasise an even simpler and more transparent process of admission of children to kindergarten. In this way, a shorter deadline is proposed for deciding on the complaint and for assessing the costs incurred by kindergartens in relation to registration procedures. The proposal also follows the aspirations of increasing the quality of preschool education, so that only the tutor, but not the assistant tutor, as has been the case so far, will implement the new shorter kindergarten programmes. Therefore, as it is said, the Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for amendments and additions to the Education Act as well as the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, as it allows for further growth in the participation of children in kindergarten, while ensuring quality implementation of preschool education programmes in our country. For reasons likely to be mentioned in the debate, however, we cannot support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Menich has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u150	Dearly beloved, all present, a very nice greeting! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens [[EPA 882]] - The law was adopted in 1996 and has been amended four times. The shortcomings proposed by the congregations as founders and the kindergartens themselves have been addressed. The main objective of the proposed law is to ensure further quality of pre-school education in public education and to increase the accessibility of pre-school education, which is particularly difficult in environments where they encounter increased immigration and associated demographics. The law therefore contains a specific chapter defining the provision of facilities for kindergartens. The bill makes it possible to provide more effective facilities for kindergarten purposes, for a maximum of two children's departments can also be organised in simpler facilities, buildings such as by classifying a type of facility as a group of administrative, office, general social, cultural and entertainment buildings and health buildings for which a useful permit has already been issued and therefore no change of destination is required. We suggest that more departments than two can be organised according to their needs. In the proposal for a law, municipalities are required to plan the spatial planning of kindergartens in the area, which ensures timely planning of kindergartens. In particular, the procedure governing the admission and admission of children to preschool is defined when there are too few places available for all children in kindergarten. The practice has shown that the implementation of procedures should be simplified, reduced and cheaper, while ensuring that the legal certainty of the rights of parents is ensured. Records kept in kindergartens shall be simplified so that data are collected in terms of respect for the principle of proportionality, i.e. only to the extent necessary for the process of enrolment and inclusion in kindergarten. The spindle shall establish a record of the entered and the records of the children involved. Data is collected by kindergarten on the basis of parental consent. The age condition for admission to preschool is changed, which is now at least 11 months. The new decision allows the kindergarten to adopt the child immediately after the expiry of parental leave or any subsequent leave for the protection and care of the child. The law does not bring essential characteristics and does not solve the fundamental problem of effectively providing free places for children in need of kindergarten, since it does not oblige the municipalities in any way to implement their spatial plans and build or otherwise provide space. It is strange that the Ministry of Education and Sport did not include a subsidy measure to those parents of residents who did not get a place for children in kindergarten because the municipality did not provide enough vacancies. Such a solution introduces the principle of equality, for now some municipalities that cannot provide enough free places in kindergartens, parents whose children have not received a place in kindergarten, have already offered a monetary compensation in the amount of the congregation’s contribution to this child in kindergarten. The Law with excessive hospitality only extends the existing articles relating to the registration procedure, since the existing law already contains all the basic and necessary provisions. Thus, only a copy of the Administrative Procedure Act has been laid down, in accordance with which entry is also maintained or the provisions governing social security and the situation of the family are being revised. This is pointless because the Education Act will always have to follow the changes to the rules cited. It also refers to the central entry with excessive hospitality, although it is already resolved in the amendments to the 2008 Act and is part of the amendment to Article 20. Despite the rejection of the SDS amendments, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We adopt the fifth amendment of the Kindergarten Act primarily to remedy the shortcomings that make work difficult for both the municipalities and the founders of kindergartens and kindergartens themselves. The proposed changes include an optimal framework for solutions within the current provision of preschool education in kindergartens. Of course, the biggest problem they face in the congregations in recent years is the shortage of places in kindergartens as a result of the introduction of free kindergarten for others and all other children, and perhaps even for a handful of higher births. Therefore, we are asked to allow the operation of no more than two kindergarten departments in a one-bedroom building or building for which a usable permit has already been issued and therefore no change of destination is necessary, it seems appropriate and necessary. If more than two sections were to be organised in such buildings, a change in housing law would also be necessary, and even other complications would probably arise, so that they do not appear to talk about the time it takes to change legislation. Thus, as previously said, within the current system, this is the optimal framework that has been put in place by such an amendment of the law, by organising a good third of these departments in existing non-target facilities in this way, without the need to carry out the process of altering the destination of the premises, we will be able to quickly and effectively acquire new seats, saving, according to estimates, about half a million euros at the annual level. In order to make kindergartens more accessible, however, municipalities as founders will have to plan kindergartens or areas in time for preschool training activities in the future, which they have not yet been obliged to do. We all know that in recent years, ten, perhaps fifteen years, new residential settlements have grown like mushrooms in the rain, where kindergartens were not planned. This is not an exception, of course, since on the other hand there may have been no ecological outflows and otherwise would have been found, which is essential for some infrastructure and quality of living. So many who have moved into these settlements feel this now that their children have no place to sign up. For both parents and kindergartens, a change that introduces a simpler and more transparent procedure will be welcome: on the one hand, kindergartens will be burdened with unnecessary administrative procedures and costs, while on the other hand parents will be provided with legal certainty in the treatment and decision-making of applications for admission to kindergarten, even if - and usually so - more children are enrolled in kindergartens than are free cities. This applies, of course, both to those kindergartens in the public network and to those with concessions. It can be regretted that the law in certain provisions is not more bold, although of course opinions have been expressed here in a different way; things such as the central records for different kindergartens in municipalities with multiple kindergartens are not working now and even after this change will not be possible for another year, however, I believe that the founders and kindergartens will try as few children as possible, if any, without - in short, to all get places in kindergartens. However, as regards the monetary benefits that would be accepted by those parents who would not be able to include the child in kindergartens - and not that the law does not oblige the municipalities to actually build kindergartens - it is important to remember, of course, that the care of children is the original jurisdiction of the congregation and that must be borne in mind by every municipal authority and every mayor. In view of the fact that, for example, this year's local elections, I believe that citizens and citizens themselves will be able to judge who is the mayor who is properly solving this crisis, who is not, whether it is justified to grant municipal aid to those who cannot enrol in kindergarten, or whether this matter could be resolved in some other way. I don't think that the state here in this jurisdiction of the congregations should interfere, but this autumn those who can and not only can do so must do so. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the proposed solutions in the bill are good, necessary and will therefore be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, all present! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware of the problems of overoccupation of kindergartens in Slovenia, and we support this proposal from this point of view, which will result in at least a few repairs. We also know that some congregations are in considerable difficulty because they have no facilities or because they did not plan enlarged kindergartens. If the situation could not be predicted, it probably does not. But we do know that certain procedures need their time and money. It is certainly not right that the responsibility to address the problem lies with parents, who must ultimately benefit from more expensive options for private child protection. We therefore support the proposal to facilitate the operation of kindergartens in a one-bedroom building or building which, according to the classification of the type of facilities, is classified as a group of administrative and office buildings, buildings of general social interest, buildings for culture and entertainment, and buildings for health care, for which a useful permit has already been issued in accordance with the building regulations and therefore no change of destination is necessary. However, we wonder why a limit on a maximum of two compartments and what negative environmental impact three or maybe four such departments would have. We also agree with the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia that, by amending the Rules on Normative and Minimum Technical Conditions for kindergarten space and equipment, it is necessary to allow more flexible use of premises intended for preschool education and, in exceptional cases, to allow derogation from certain technical conditions for space, while the quality of preschool education should not, of course, be reduced. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, as they provide more room for kindergartens and, inter alia, simplification of the procedure for admission of children to kindergarten, where there has been too much financial and administrative burden so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens. In the parliamentary group we are faced with a problem which many Slovenian municipalities currently have. This issue was created on the basis of the amended Act on the free admission of children into institutional pre-school education and care and also on the basis of the rise in birth and demographic movements in Slovenia. Therefore, it seems to us that the Ministry of Education and Sport has responded very quickly and flexibly to all these problems, which, through the amendment of this law, would alleviate this problem for local communities and especially for our parents. It is important that the Ministry of Practice has found that novelties need to be changed and introduced into the following areas, firstly: the removal or mitigation of problems in the provision of places in kindergartens, thus increasing the accessibility of institutional preschool protection. Second, ensuring the quality of preschool education. Thirdly, the removal of administrative barriers in registration procedures and a different regime of records. Fourthly: ensure equal treatment or equal treatment of professional workers, given the recognition of their level of education. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a novel is well prepared, following the fundamental objective or mission of the pre-school education policy. This is certainly in that the users of institutional child care and education are satisfied users. The aim of the novel is therefore primarily to meet the expectations of parents, both in terms of greater accessibility and in terms of ensuring the appropriate quality of the programmes implemented. The solution to the spatial distress in Slovenian kindergartens, as proposed by the Ministry of Education and Sport, is, in our opinion, a very thoughtful and rational move, as it is undoubtedly based on the consideration of key factors that influence each other. This includes taking into account demographics, environmental impacts and the cost-effectiveness of investing in new capacities, and it is also possible to track cooperation in coordination with representatives of municipalities, parents' representatives and also kindergarten managers. This is the type of novelty that the novelty brings into the amended law and will be reliable, according to our assessment - the assessment of the DeSUS Group - has made a significant contribution to solving this pressing problem facing Slovenian municipalities at this time. We will therefore support this bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The Kindergarten Act itself, which regulates preschool education, has been amended or supplemented on several occasions since 1996, which may also mean that it has not been fully prepared, but may also change certain circumstances and conditions in the implementation of the law, which is constantly pointed out by some kindergartens and also by congregations as founders. In this respect, the proposed amendments and additions are necessary and justified, as the main purpose and objective of the amended law are certainly to improve the quality of preschool education in public education as well as to make preschool education more accessible to parents. Let me list just a few positive solutions and justifications for the facts that we accept and confirm in the Slovenian National Party. Some of these are already mentioned by the predecessors, but let me mention them again. The availability of kindergartens is particularly difficult in environments where there is an increase in resettlement and associated demographics, and therefore a specific chapter defining the provision of kindergarten facilities is included in the law. The proposed law also aims at removing administrative barriers to public institutions in the case of more children than in kindergarten. Furthermore, the proposed law allows for more effective provision of kindergarten facilities. A new provision is introduced in the law which allows for a maximum of two children to be organised in a one-bedroom house or building for which, of course, a valid permit has already been issued and is therefore appropriate. It also makes sense to amend the obligation of municipalities to spatially plan kindergartens in the planning of activities in the area. The proposal also substantiates a specific procedure governing the admission and admission of children to kindergarten where there are too few places available for all children in kindergarten. The solution is necessary because in practice in kindergartens it appears necessary to simplify, shorten and reduce the implementation of these procedures while ensuring that the legal certainty of parents associated with the admission and inclusion of children in kindergartens is ensured. Changes also simplify records maintained by kindergartens, so that data are collected in respect of compliance with the principle of proportionality only to the extent necessary for the process of enrolment and inclusion in kindergartens. The basic purpose of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Education Act is therefore to build up the existing provisions on the basis of which municipalities must provide adequate facilities in kindergartens or additional vacant places in a timely manner when sufficient parents who wish to include the child in kindergarten are present, but the municipality does not have sufficient capacity, as well as provisions governing the admission and inclusion of children in kindergarten. In order to respect the principle of the proportionality of the collection of personal data in kindergartens, the law defines two separate records maintained by kindergartens, specifically for enrolled children and especially for children involved. On the basis of this in the Slovenian National Party, we will definitely support the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May. 4. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Anyone else? Check-in is on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The draft law will receive adequate support from the opinions of the groups. However, the amendments tabled show that we are returning to the debate that we have already held on the Committee. Once again, two amendments have been tabled to Article 2, following what the SDS Group has already advocated in the Committee's consideration. And as I said in my debate on the Committee that I do not support such solutions, in the introductions, I do not now predict the support of these two amendments. In doing so, I would like to point out that it is likely that an unloving error has been made by the amendments to the amendments, but first I am talking about the first amendment, to invest, in my opinion, in the basic text, not in the complementary proposal of the law. For the amended proposal of the law has two paragraphs and, as the amendment is announced here, it says that the last sentence of the new Article 10a should be deleted. And if we were to delete this now, we would delete the text "there is no need for the buildings referred to in the preceding paragraph to change the destination for preschool education activities". I believe that the applicants did not wish to delete this because, if deleted, the acquisition or facilitation of a procedure for the acquisition of premises for two departments in unintended buildings would actually be eliminated. So this is completely pointless, and it seems from the fact that the amendment applicants are opposed to only a limited number of departments that can be placed in unintended buildings. Why, though, do I advocate the thesis that there may be one or more compartments in an unintended building? What mysteries they encounter in individual municipalities in individual environments, especially in large urban environments, is clear. And that the operation of kindergarten units in an unintended building may also be linked to the acceptance or non-acceptance of those using the building is a known fact. In Ljubljana, for example, residents of a residential building refused this possibility that kindergarten units could be placed in a residential building because they felt that they would be disturbed when parents and children would come to kindergarten or when parents would come for their children. A group of children are also likely to bring new dynamics into the environment. We are citizens and citizens of this country in general very sensitive to all interventions in our lives, one of whom would not have schools near us, the other kindergartens, the third home for the elderly and so on. That's why I think the limit to two compartments is reasonable. In particular, I support her because I think it's a temporary solution. The demographic trends are, unfortunately, such that after the current growth of the population included in kindergartens, the expected number of births will fall again. Thus, such congregations can adapt more quickly to their actual needs. More importantly, it seems important to me that this is some kind of emergency exit, which can under no circumstances replace plans for the proper construction of kindergartens, if possible, which will also be energy-efficient and will also follow modern architectural requirements as well as the content that kindergartens have. It seems very important to maintain this provision, however, that no matter whether this building has a valid permit, it is clear in this article that standards and standards applicable to preschool education must be taken into account in such a building. This, therefore, preserves the demand for some consistent advocacy of quality and opportunities for the operation of preschool education. And now I would like to discuss another amendment to this article of the same proposal. This amendment also repeats what we have already rejected on the committee. It means that parents would be entitled to a cash refund equal to that of a child enrolled in kindergarten. I know that in some municipalities, especially smaller ones, with a special decree or decision of the municipal council, they are already doing this activity, and probably at a level such as that of a child in kindergarten, they are giving money to parents for that child who was unable to receive it in kindergarten. I cannot agree that the state or the ministry in this case would order that the municipalities should pay this subsidy because in the National Assembly too often it is heard how the state imposes on the congregation that it must bear the financial burden for what it does not want to do. However, I am a keen advocate of responsible conduct by the local community, which I think must carry out its basic mission and follow the needs of quality living in the local community. The need for quality life also requires a sufficiently early planning of the construction of specialized, special children's protection buildings, such buildings, where there will also be a sufficiently high playing area on the child - 3 square metres of gaming surfaces should be provided for the child. The spindle should also be placed in an appropriate environment to ensure the possibility of playing outdoors, not to talk about safe paths or anything else. All these things have to be provided, so I am a supporter of dedicated buildings for preschool education and I think that if we follow the movement of the population - for example, I come from the second largest city municipality, I know that, to ensure the quality of life of the family, they move to suburban municipalities. And this suburban congregation can not only be a sleeping environment but also provide for the needs of young families. Therefore, it seems to me that it is the responsibility of the municipal authorities to prepare appropriate spatial acts at the appropriate time, including this activity, and it seems to me that this would be a mere silence for the municipalities so that parents do not put too much pressure on municipal authorities to provide suitable facilities. If I am not mistaken, we have witnessed in one of the municipalities the rebellion of a civil initiative that has gathered as an incentive for the establishment of a kindergarten and has demanded from the local community that a kindergarten be built. I think it is the task of local communities to listen to the wishes and needs of citizens and citizens and to talk about where the things that citizens and citizens should receive from their local community are, of course, a quality preschool education. With the appropriate facilities alone, we will achieve a Barcelona target of 90% child participation for a three to six-year period. Now that I see the Minister here, I also remember how pleased he came from a visit to Vienna, where he found that kindergarten in Vienna is compulsory for six-year-olds precisely because of all the beneficial influences that preschool education has. At the age of six, they are studying, but at the time of school entrance, this year, the child must also be included in kindergarten in order to be better prepared for school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u161	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Well-known Minister, Madam Secretary of State, President, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Today's topic of amendments and additions to the kindergarten law is personal to me, I must say, a very special challenge in several areas; as a person, as a mother, when I remember how my daughters were enrolled in kindergarten when I remembered my mother almost 40 years ago when she said that when she was born she had enrolled me in kindergarten and by the age of six there was no room for me in kindergarten, so she had to seek private protection, to this day what I read here or what I have the opportunity to face as a responsible person in the local community. I certainly support all the above, which my colleague mag has presented very clearly and visually and professionally. Majda Potrat, president of the Education Committee of the National Assembly. However, the fact that local communities will have to provide and provide adequate space for our little ones, i.e. preschool children, is certainly true. I myself come from such a local community, where we have faced one fact which, in some way, will still be possible in the debate, too, but today there has been no application of those fellow discussers who were probably even before the Members, when I was not yet in this post, perhaps some things were quite different than they are now in the amendment or amendments tabled to Article 2. In fact, as we say, governments are coming and going, the legislation adopted by this National Assembly, and this high assembly, must be taken into account. And when we talk from our youngest to our oldest, I don't think there's anyone who doesn't support good changes in the law or additions. This is certainly true in the case of the youngest, in the care of children, in preschool education. However, since we are in a period of economic and financial crisis today, it must be borne in mind that even local communities are not always the easiest. And because it is not the easiest thing to do, and because in the past, one change of legislation has been adopted in the direction of another child for free, another child in kindergarten for free, that this has meant a very heavy burden for the local community. In view of the fact that there have been several discussions earlier about the upcoming elections this year, I am almost certain that there are no mayors, mayors, or municipal councillors and councillors in 210 municipalities who would not consider supporting preschool education. But - how do we ensure this? I think that the Government's proposals are in this direction that they understand all the problems and all the necessary measures that local communities will also be able to take. Not just what we'd like, what, say, amendments we'd like to propose. Such monetary benefits for the municipalities - after one year they would not know what is now with this monetary compensation. These, such as the proposed amendment of the SDS Group, are indeed incomprehensible, without knowing what will be replaced after one year. What if local communities can't build a kindergarten at this time and so on? On the other hand, would this lead to a suspension of the responsibility of the municipalities to include children in kindergarten or to provide capacity? I do not think that I can support such amendments alone, but also as a representative of the local community, I am aware of the need to listen to parents as much as possible, to ensure that our young children are fully involved in kindergartens, in pre-school education, we want to follow the objectives of pre-school education, which is also mentioned in the Kindergarten Act, so as to develop the ability to understand and accept ourselves and others, to take account of the diversity and participation in groups. In connection with the proposal, also in Article 2 of this amendment, which I cannot really support, where it is also stated that there would be no restriction in housing and other buildings to just two wards of kindergartens and in connection with the change of destination. Here I think that the Government has tried as much as possible to listen to what we can do, we can do and what we can do in the shortest possible time that these children and also parents would not be deprived of in any other important years, as we say, of the time of preschool education. At this time, our children are certainly able to learn significantly more than we did in later ages. Therefore, we need to provide quality or as much pre-school education as possible to the extent that there will be no requirement, as was stated here in the amendment, that a change in destination, etc. Let me tell you a concrete example of life that I have had the opportunity to see in our local environment. Of course, children’s kindergarten is too small, the potential of the local community to apply for the fifth public tender or the fourth public tender for the improvement of kindergarten. All of this can't just go away, but children are now without the possibility of being involved in kindergarten. How can this be done? There is room at the branch school, there is a classroom, and there is, for example, now a department of kindergarten, specifically Metlika. And I can see that children don't care that this kindergarten is the latest, but it's about providing these kind of essential needs that these children need to have. And before that, one of the discussers had a really good discussion when he said, and I have to agree with that: these kids, these little ones, they also represent in the environment when it comes to branching school from the first to the fourth grade, which is a special, additional new life beat and a start. Therefore, we must not be deterred, as the Magi said. Spending. Indeed, there is a need to be understanding here, to be patient and to carry out support. Therefore, it is also necessary to support local communities, as well as the inhabitants of individual areas or other organisations such as primary schools, if they are able to provide pre-school education. I will certainly not support these amendments to Article 2. However, I will support the government's in place and concrete proposals that will today address pre-school education in the area of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u163	The word is "ma'am mag." Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I am pleased that we are sitting in Parliament, that we are no longer in kindergarten and that we are deciding for those who go to kindergarten. At the outset of the opening argument, I have already said that we cannot support, and I cannot support myself, the amendment to Article 2, in particular because the purpose of the Preschool Protection Act itself is to include as many children as possible in kindergarten institutions, and thus not least to improve their social inclusion, competences, preparedness for primary school. In fact, the proposal that we continue to help with the monetary compensation for parents who would be given or eventually sponsored by the local community in order to somehow - not to be too grave - give silence to municipalities that do not need to be involved in the preparation or, finally, in the consideration of new kindergartens is unacceptable to me. The municipalities and local communities, because I come from the Celje environment, where we have in the past become familiar with the large decline in the number of preschool children and we have happily also closed up kindergartens and individual units. Not only are they closed; their destination has changed and today we have a big, big problem with this new number of individual babies, how to find space for them. Therefore, it is the congregation, of course for any other reason, who must create spatial conditions and therefore also allocate funds to include children in preschool education. The proposal you make in Article 2 simply cannot be a model for the congregation to pay to someone else, to a third acquaintance who babysits children, and, last but not least, to save the congregation at the expense of these parents’ children, especially their development. How we will follow the goals only in kindergartens after developing the ability to understand and accept ourselves and others and to take account of the diversity and participation in the group, unless we offer children development in larger groups, to develop in groups where they think similarly and not least to feel it. Understanding the situation in which social inclusion and equalization of educational capacities are made possible for those who also come from weak environments. It is therefore necessary to further monitor and support the values of solidarity, interdependence. As a result, the monitoring of the objectives of pre-school education is highly dependent on individual levels in the local community and thus the incentives of the local communities themselves to prepare their strategic planning in advance of all projects and documentation, not only when the problem or the lack of children going to kindergarten occurs. And what is different at this time when not least local elections are approaching - the thought of allowing preschool education, space and, of course, individuals to plan, review in the future. This will, of course, be decided by the electorate and the electorate. However, I must say that the proposal contained in the SDS Group's amendment is also unacceptable and I do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u165	Mr. Menich, have you raised your hand before? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. There are many problems in the congregations. One such problem is also kindergarten or preschool education. I come from a rural area where we have major problems with kindergartens. We have plants in four locations, and now we are planning a new kindergarten in spatial acts, and we will be looking for all possible options for funds. That we have given two amendments to Article 2 stems from this, namely, spaces: if the congregation once acquires a house - which we have heard of before, which are suitable for building permits, without a change of destination - then it seems reasonable to me that if it is possible to make more departments than two. In fact, at such a large house, and if possible, we are convinced that there could be another third section in distress or even a fourth section. That's why we proposed this amendment. The second amendment is that the congregation cannot immediately provide all children with access to kindergarten. Those parents who lose everything on the road, so practically without everything, are just so our proposal to give them money. In fact, we know what kind of crisis we're in. It's just some kind of anti-crisis measure. I think it'd be nice for the parents. I'm telling you, we're dealing with some really big problems. People carry various tables to the congregation, and any help in this regard would be welcome. We will support both of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u167	I'm opening the application. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! What always marked our preschool education was an extremely high quality of services. I must say that even in the past, when I was a little more intensive in this area, in even the most developed countries of the world, I was able to commend myself with the high professionalism of the staff that provided preschool education and that in the single system of preschool education, which is very important in terms of the uniformity of the curriculum. This quality is particularly important when children with a certain small incentive for their development are involved in kindergarten. Because I just participated in the research. Research into the needs of families for different forms of service, in fact, I was most pleased to learn that children from lower socioeconomic layers are super-proportionally involved in kindergarten. This is very encouraging because this means that we are helping these children in fact to replace or make it easier to overcome barriers to integration into the further education system. The scope of our pre-school education is gradually growing, and I am convinced that, even with the amendments to the law you have adopted in 2008, this is by including another child in a free manner and by gradually reducing parent participation and increasing the participation of the country, we will very quickly catch the European Union's goal, in fact, that 90% of children will be enrolled in kindergartens during the pre-school period. Of course, this means that we already know that there will be an intense need to plan new capacities for preschool education. And the changes in the law that we have before us, I see precisely in the sense that it wants to preserve the quality of the service on the one hand and, on the other hand, much more flexibly regulate the possibilities for spatial provision of facilities for kindergartens. Comments relating to the limitation of the two sections would somehow be interpreted as being possible to change the whole space's purpose and allocate it to the kindergarten and actually bridge this barrier - but I don't think so much about it. What would, of course, look at is the amendment to Article 2, which speaks of the fact that, at the time of overcrowding or providing sufficient capacity for children in kindergartens for all those parents who could not be included in kindergartens, they should provide a subsidy to the congregation. Well, all in all, I would point out that this country is already providing a certain subsidy, with a 20% increase in the child allowance for those children who are not included in kindergarten. However, data from the study show that the majority of children who are not included in kindergartens are protected in their parents, a very small part of their relatives or acquaintances and friends, only 4.3% of their parents send their children into paid forms of parenting and child care. It is therefore so important that we ensure as short a period as possible to allow children to be included in quality education programmes provided on one side of public education and, of course, those kindergartens that have been approved by the relevant authorities and are, of course, private kindergartens. In short, these certainly have the advantage of protecting in, I will say paid forms, and even more so in so-called grey forms of child protection. What do we do with this amendment? In fact, we take the responsibility of the municipalities to plan the spatial capacities of kindergartens and, in fact, to bridge the differences between supply and demand as soon as possible. You know, with a great deal of help in certain local environments, the need to regulate municipal solutions can be traced. Some congregations - I must say that I was very happy, my colleague Zanoškar, already your predecessor said that, of course, more political points are dialed in such a way as to regulate communal conditions, and less by regulating those conditions for those activities that guarantee higher quality of life for people. In short, I think that if we do not support this amendment, we will in fact strengthen the responsibility of the municipality to provide additional facilities for preschool education as soon as possible, either in public education or in those schools that receive adequate verification for the implementation of their programmes. And in this way, in fact, we provide the best conditions for the development of our preschool children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u169	Mr. Miran Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, fellow Members, fellow Members! I will not support the amendment to Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens. First, a brief explanation of why not the other amendment providing municipalities with money for compensation for those children who cannot be included in kindergarten. I don't think the amendment is bad, but it's also impossible to invest in this way. It is impossible for municipalities to impose any financial burden on them unless, on the other hand, we provide adequate financial resources. This is not done through this amendment, and I think that's why it's impossible to accept it. I think it's also bad because this amendment doesn't stimulate the municipalities to start thinking about how they're going to solve the space crisis as soon as possible, but it's taking this story backwards. I think this problem needs to be addressed as soon as possible. In Slovenia, I believe that there are many municipalities facing spatial problems, not only because of the legal changes we adopted in 2008 in the National Assembly, but also because of the increased enrolment of children in preschool education, which I think is good. This must also be followed by an appropriate municipal policy in order to ensure appropriate spatial conditions. At this point, however, it is important to point out to the Government that in the budgets for the following years, which will follow the 2010 and 2011 budgets, there will be a need to provide greater financial resources to increase spatial capacity in local communities in the area of pre-school education. I think these funds are too small and the needs are too great. I'm telling you, for local communities, that's not a small financial burden. In the congregation from which I come, about 15% of the appropriate spending is devoted to preschool education. Or if we look at the revenue structure of kindergarten: 74% of the money comes from the municipal budget, slightly less than 19% are parental contributions. It is said that parents contribute about 19% to this economic price, and for each child, the municipality thus provides 20% of the economic price. And I tell you that we do not include in the economic price the cost of paying the jubilee prizes and for retirement fees in order to reduce the cost of parenting in the payment of preschool education. The reason is also that the municipality of Hrastnik is at risk in the social field, which makes the contributions of parents so low. But as for the first story, about spatial conditions, I think that the solution that is enshrined in the law is good, as well as the other solutions. I see this solution as a temporary solution, so that through municipal spatial plans, we can provide suitable locations for the construction of new kindergartens as soon as possible and provide such spatial conditions that will provide real quality preschool education, as this is very important for the development of our children. All I'd like to do is comment on the investment. I think that every investment within the local community is important, and even municipal investment is important because it raises the quality of life. However, there must be a real measure of investment in the municipal area, in the road area and also in investment in knowledge or in preschool education. What bothers me is that there have been very few or no calls for proposals in recent years when these operational programmes have been amended or when we have called for European funds for local communities. [[except for the last]] where you could compete for European money to build new capacities in the area of preschool education. As a matter of fact, I will not support any amendment to Article 2, but I will, in advance, support the law, because I think it is good, some solutions are temporary, and some I think are very good and will in practice prove to be an appropriate solution to the problems in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 2? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss the amendments anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.10. - it says - but I hope that it will be sooner. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I hope the government representative will be here soon. I'm giving you five minutes to take a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u172	Dear Members and Members! Continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Igor Jakomin, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give a brief explanation in the introduction to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act for which a general discussion is proposed. The fundamental objective of the amendment of the Road Safety Act is to ensure that the transport safety system works more effectively and thus improve the safety of all road users. Slovenia is one of the European countries that has managed to reduce the number of deaths from 335 in 1999 to 171 in 2009 and 49% in 2009 in the last 10 years with a wider social effort. According to statistics, up to 16 April 2010, 17 people died less than during the same period last year, 78 were severely injured and 730 could be injured. Independence or autonomy is essential to improve transport safety and the integration of the areas now under the competence of the various authorities. The expert opinion has shown that the organisation of the transport safety authority in the form of a public agency is the most meaningful in order to achieve those objectives, which would mean: the greater role of universities, societies, institutions, foundations and businesses. The pooling of staff, finance and potentials of knowledge and experience within the public agency will ensure greater efficiency and rationalisation of the work of the state administration. A higher degree of professional independence will be ensured, in line with the standards of the most secure Member States of the European Union. The Agency is an indirect budgetary consumer, which will also finance part of its operating costs and certain transport and security measures through its own activities, thereby reducing budgetary funding needs. Furthermore, the Agency will provide analysis and research, which will provide a basis for cost-effective planning, implementation and evaluation of key national transport and security processes. Finally, the functioning of the Agency will ensure greater functional and financial synergies with socially responsible road safety companies. No additional employment is foreseen in 2010 and 2011 within the framework of the public agency and the departmental ministries. However, it also takes into account the 1% reduction in the number of employees in the state administration in 2010 and 2011. The funding of the public agency in 2010 and 2011 will not go beyond the already authorised spending rights of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Interior and the administrative unit of Ljubljana. In 2013, the public agency with its own activity is expected to reduce its budget share by around EUR 201 000 with a reduction in the number of employees and with an increase in the volume of work, and this share over the years is expected to increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The proposal for legislation was considered by the Committee on Transport as a working mother, and I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, President, to explain the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. At its 10th meeting, held on 7 April, the Transport Committee considered a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. In addition to the constitutional material of the above mentioned Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee’s joint opinion on local self-government and regional development and on the Commission for State regulation of the State Council and its observations and observations on the Republic’s Committee of the Union of State Authorities of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Municipality of Celje, the municipality of Lithium and the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica also addressed their opinions. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, said that road safety is improving and we would like to ensure that the organisation's transport safety scheme also follows other measures to ensure greater efficiency in the functioning of the entire transport safety system. Therefore, the proposed law proposes a new organisation to bring together and connect several administrative authorities with the responsibilities and responsibilities in the field of road safety, which are now operating at different locations. To this end, the establishment of a public transport safety agency is envisaged. What are the advantages of these agencies? The Minister stressed that the role of the State in this area is to combine staff, finance and the potentials of knowledge and experience, as well as, of course, to ensure a higher degree of professional independence. In 2010 and 2011, no new employment is foreseen, nor will the public agency's financial resources exceed the already authorised rights of use at the Integrated Means of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Interior and the administrative units. The Law-Legislative Service has also reviewed the law itself. It highlighted the comments relating to the provisions concerning the establishment of a public transport safety agency, both as regards the legal system of operation and the definition of its tasks and bodies. The comments of the service are duly taken into account in the proposed amendments and the consideration remains with regard to Article 55 in order to take over the tasks of public servants. In their explanation, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission for the National Organisation of the State Council have also said that they support the establishment of a public transport safety agency. In the context of the second reading of the proposal, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the SD, Zares and the LDS MPs and the SDS MPs. In the Committee's debate, there was a broader exchange of views on whether or not we needed an agency and on how to ensure the impact of policy on the Agency's functioning on road safety. The result of this debate was that the Committee supported all amendments by SD, Reale and LDS members of Parliament and rejected the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5 or became irrelevant due to the adoption of the previous amendments. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In view of this, you have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act, which includes the amendments already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Luka Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The purpose of amending the law is clear and is also quite simple, it is the establishment of a public transport safety agency that seeks to achieve a number of objectives. More specifically, 7, 6 positive effects can be achieved by bringing together in a rational way a number of services dealing with the issue of road safety into a single organised unit. First of all, we will achieve greater efficiency in the functioning of the whole system, as it will be organised and integrated. We will ensure the impact of professional and civil society in co-decision on key solutions, as only one interlocutor will be organised by the government in this area, no more, and we will ensure transparency and supervision. Four, we will establish a single information system in this area. Five, we will also make it possible to obtain non-budgetary resources, as there will be one single agency in this area that can compete for these resources. And six, we will reduce the cost of the work of the state administration in conducting administrative procedures. All of this will be achieved without additional costs on other sides, except, of course, the initial establishment, because in this agency - and this is important to stress - we will channel the human resources potential that the public administration already has today, but is dispersed in various ministries and does not operate in a coordinated and organised manner. This therefore follows the principle, which is not new in this mandate, that it is good for those working in the same field to have the same objectives, to be organized in a meaningful manner, and thus to achieve positive externalities. This is why the Social Democrats support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr Peter Verlich has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u179	Your Honor! The ten-year traffic accident statistics show that the trend in traffic accidents in the Republic of Slovenia is improving. The number of traffic accidents nearly halved last year compared to 2000 and the number of fatal accidents also halved, and the number of deaths was close to half in 2000. Statistics are much worse when we look at the number of car accidents with injured persons, where the number of accidents increased between 2000 and 2007 and even increased by 50% in 2004 than in 2000. A strong fall in traffic accidents with injured persons, for about a third, will record statistics again in 2008 compared to 2007. We must probably also attribute such a strong fall in traffic accidents to the changes of the law that were passed in the previous term and have imposed more severe penalties, even though we are still well reminded of the discussions of the opposition at that time, the current Pahorian Coalition, which struck after former Home Affairs Minister Dragutin Mate, to transform the country into a repressive fortification. But human lives that have been saved by harsher punishments are priceless. But instead of discussing content today, we talk about form. The amendments to the road safety law that we have on the bench today do not touch the content, we are not talking about the implementation of the vision of nothing dead on our roads, but they are talking about the form. This form is implemented through these amendments to the law by establishing a new public transport safety agency. We will get a new director of the Agency and a new council of the Agency, of course a service government and a coalition, because it will set them up. Officials will move from all possible ministries and eventually the Minister of Transport will find that the Agency needs more space and will probably move them to a new building and pay them accordingly, following the example of the National Investigation Office. Of course, he will probably also find that they are undernourished at the agency, which will mean that this new agency will need new people, just as it did at the Railway Agency, where despite all the government's saving, the government is proposing new jobs. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport on the Committee have not convinced us in any way that the new agency could be any better than, for example, just better internal arrangements of the Ministry. They couldn't explain how many deaths will be less on our roads if we have another bureaucratic structure more to eat into the taxpayer's money. For us, it is essential how much fewer victims will be on our roads, how we will solve traffic safety in settlements on local and regional roads where the victim is the most. Therefore, since the establishment of a new public transport safety agency is only about form and content, we are opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Security is a key issue for road users, regardless of the transport sector. As part of the coalition, we have committed ourselves to improving the safety of road users, so we will set up a separate body to take care of transport safety and make proposals on the basis of the expert guidelines for the entire chain of measures. We have written down that the emphasis on educational measures and strengthening preventive actions, on appropriate penal policies and, in some cases, on inadequate infrastructure, we will give priority to addressing and reconstructing dangerous points and sections. The new Road Safety Act follows these transport policy priorities. A so-called pre-examination study on possible forms of road safety organisation was carried out in the Ministry, where three possible forms were analysed: the Transport Safety Directorate, the independent transport safety authority in the form of a public service and the public agency. According to the Ministry, the expert opinion has shown that the most appropriate form of organisation is the public agency, since independence or autonomy is essential to achieving the objectives. The main solutions to the changes that we really agree with within the Group are the integration and integration of road safety works and tasks, the organisation and implementation of new tasks in the area of independent investigation of factors for the occurrence of road accidents, the assessment of the safety of road infrastructure and the research analysis work. We also introduce new organisation because of a user-friendly, more efficient and more rational security organisation. In the Public Transport Safety Agency, a number of administrative bodies will be merged and linked with responsibilities and responsibilities in one place. This is a combination of areas of critical importance for security, which allows for a more qualitative and informed implementation of the measures. It is not a political body, as it will also include professions, users' representatives and civil society organisations. The role of the State will be smaller and, in addition to other advantages, the potentials of knowledge will be pooled, which will undoubtedly ensure a higher degree of professional independence. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal of the amendment and the amendment of the coalition groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u183	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we certainly believe that one of the most important priorities in transport regulation is to ensure transport safety. For many years in Slovenia, we have been trying to reduce the number of road accidents in order to calm traffic in settlements, to prevent too quickly driving and driving in guilt. We are confident that this will be possible by educating and raising drivers for safe driving. Members of the Slovenian People's Party expect that the Public Agency for Transport Safety will be effective in not merely analysing and researching, as this will not prevent accidents. Effective action must be taken. The explanation of the bill states that the Government has decided to set up an agency on the basis of a pre-study on possible forms of road safety organisation in Slovenia, where an analysis of three possible forms has been carried out: the Directorate for Transport Safety, the Independent Transport Safety Authority in the form of a public service and the public agency. However, the expert opinion should show that the most appropriate form is the public agency, that it is the most independent and therefore more effective. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this pre-study should also be seen by Members prior to the adoption of this law. We are not convinced by the argument of independence concerning the security agency; it would be more important that the Authority has the powers and the necessary means of action. It is precisely because of more effective action in transport that we note that the law should define more clearly the cooperation of state authorities and local communities, define more clearly the role of municipalities in the world of the Agency, the role of municipalities in establishing prevention councils and their composition. There is a lack of definition of societies operating in the field of prevention and lack of standards, which can lead to uncoordinated work and fragmentation. It is also recalled that the municipality of Lithuania has also pointed out in its opinion that there is a lack of indication of the necessary number of escorts for the transport of the group of children in Article 92. We will support those amendments that improve the provisions and take into account the opinion of the legislative service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give you an opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act, which we have in the DeSUS Group. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposed amendment to the Road Safety Act, which will set up a public transport safety agency, which, in our opinion, is an important contribution to transport safety. The current system is poorly inefficient and difficult because it is fragmented between the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, the police, the Directorate for Roads and Administrative Units. Weaknesses are also reflected in the non-economic use of labour and financial resources, as are shortcomings in its informationisation. Each Ministry shall create data in its collections which are not adequately linked to each other, which means that the same data on the vehicle or drivers in different information systems is not sufficiently harmonised. The Agency is expected to link all areas that have a significant impact on transport safety, while they have improved significantly in Slovenia in recent years. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that the Public Agency will really help to reduce the number of deaths on Slovenian roads, which is now 40% lower than in previous years. Slovenia is also one of the first four safest European countries in terms of road safety for children. As has already been said, the pooling of staff, finance and the potential of knowledge and experience within the public agency will ensure greater efficiency and rationalisation of the work of the state administration. At the same time, the role of the State and policy will be reduced and the role of universities, societies, institutions, foundations and businesses will be enhanced. At the agency they will take care of Slovenia's involvement in international space. However, administrative tasks such as the implementation of the safe driving training programme and the management of administrative procedures at the first stage, including decisions on the registration of schools, shall be delegated to organisations carrying out vehicle registration procedures and technical checks. The public agency, whose establishment will not result in additional employment and additional budgetary resources, will also be able to generate additional revenue as an indirect budget user to carry out its own activities, of course by carrying out additional professional tasks. The test centres for motor vehicle drivers, which are now outside the road safety system and broken down into 16 administrative units, will be given the possibility of integration in a system that ensures the same working and other conditions through integration within the public agency. So, the amendment of the law brings a lot of changes on the positive side, so there is no reason not to support it in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u187	Your Honor! The Road Safety Act applicable from 1 January 2005 has been subject to a number of amendments and additions with a view to improving road safety, which unfortunately has not yet been sufficiently achieved. According to the proposaler, the current state of the road safety system is characterised by the fragmentation of competences and responsibilities between several administrative authorities: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Interior, the police, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and administrative units. The proposal under consideration is therefore aimed at bringing together and integrating road safety, organisation and implementation of new tasks in the area of independent investigation of fatality factors, road infrastructure safety assessments and research and analysis work. To this end, a public transport safety agency shall be established to take over certain professional tasks in the field of drivers and vehicles, preventive and road safety training, transport safety and, gradually, the tasks performed by examination centres for motor vehicle drivers. I would also take care of Slovenia's involvement in international space, cooperation with international organisations and associations operating in an area and with national organisations, with the aim of systematically integrating areas dealing with drivers and vehicles within one ministry. The proposal for a law confers on the Ministry of the Interior the powers of policy-making, the normative regulation of this area to the Ministry of Transport. Under the new regime, the Ministry of Transport, which will also decide at the second stage on administrative acts to be issued by administrative units at the first stage, will be the Ministry of Transportation’s Department of Directors. The Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Affairs will now carry out inspections under the new regime of the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we hope that the proposed amendments will contribute to greater road safety and consequently to the reduction of traffic accidents and that it is not an ineffective transfer of power between different national authorities. We support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, while also calling on the Government to draw up a deliberate draft of future sectoral legislation, in particular the Drivers Act, the Motor Vehicles Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u189	Dear President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, honourable Members, fellow Members! Road transport, along with other transport subsystems, is the lifeblood of our civilization and, as such, makes our lives the most important. Despite its major environmental and other negative impacts, road transport is the most important transport subsystem and within it passenger transport is a convincing winner over other forms of public passenger transport. In addition to the negative environmental impact, road transport has another equally important negative impact on our society, namely traffic accidents that carry on human lives and cause enormous financial and economic damage. Therefore, improving road safety must be a permanent task for all transport policy holders and the main and final objective of no more lost road life and no new disability due to the consequences of traffic accidents. However, we need an effective and rational road safety system in order to bring this objective closer as quickly as possible, in which professional decisions have a decisive impact. The current state of the road safety system in our country is unfortunately characterised by the fragmentation of competences and responsibilities between several authorities, between the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Interior, the police, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and administrative units. The professional positions are often pushed aside, and the system is too recklessly affected by day-to-day policies, due to daily-political objectives. It is only necessary to remember how many times in Slovenia alone has been affected by the law governing or still regulating road safety. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the establishment of public transport safety agencies, which will allow for rational integration and integration of road safety works and tasks, as well as the organisation and implementation of new tasks in the area of independent investigation of factors for the occurrence of the worst traffic accidents, road infrastructure safety assessments and research-analytical work. In our view, it is an important argument in favour of setting up such an agency that it is precisely the need to reduce the impact of daily policy on road safety and to increase the role of universities, societies, institutions and other civil society organisations dealing with this issue. Furthermore, the establishment will bring greater efficiency and rationalisation to the work of the state administration and a more transparent responsibility to existing transport safety authorities and organisations. In doing so, we would like to stress in particular in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that the establishment of the agency does not reduce the responsibility of other authorities and organisations that remain in charge of improving road safety. The implementation of the proposed solution will also result in greater independence of the profession from national authorities and from authorised organisations, a solution already known in the transport of the most secure Member States of the European Union. The Agency, as an indirect budgetary consumer, will also finance transport security activities through income from its own activities. With analytical and research activities, the Agency will have a basis for cost-effective planning, implementation and evaluation in transport and safety processes. The fact is that Slovenia currently has no analytical and research activities in this area. It is also important that the establishment will allow for greater functional and financial cooperation with socially responsible companies and other organisations, including in the form of grants and sponsorships, which, after the creation of the Road Prevention and Training Council, is no longer a sector in the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. And the human resources-financial aspect of the proposed solution. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it seems important to us that despite the increased number of tasks, the total number of employees to the Ministry and in the new agency in the coming years will not increase compared to the current situation and that the funding of the new agency in the 2010/2011 financial years will not exceed already authorised spending rights from this area in the three ministries from which the tasks and personnel will be transferred to the Agency. Dearly respected, these are also the main reasons why we will support the bill in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19.4.2010. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss Article 5? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I already said in the position of our Group of Members that we are talking today about form and not content. So this amendment that we tabled to Article 5 also speaks of a form which, in our opinion, can, however, contribute to the appointment of the Council of Public Agencies by the National Assembly. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Is it possible to move on now? [[...]] Thank you very much for the attention of the representatives of the Government, because I thought it was a little funny when a member of the National Assembly spoke. I'd still ask for your attention. By the way, what's this all about? Following this proposal for amendments to the law, the Council of the Public Agency, as that highest authority, would appoint the founder, as stated in this initial proposal, and this founder is, if we have understood correctly on the Committee, the Government. Our amendment is that these 11 members are appointed by the National Assembly to the Council of the Public Agency on the proposal of the parliamentary groups. What did we want to accomplish with this? In fact, we want to achieve a kind of political consensus on transport security. We are convinced that transport security is not such a high political issue that we should work without knowing the difference, but it is right that all of us sitting in the National Assembly are somehow responsible when it comes to the public agency's world. That is to say, at the very least, that the right proposals for the members of the Board of the Agency are being proposed and that this is actually the role of the National Assembly. Well, in the committee, of course, it was also said in the debate, particularly from the coalition colleagues, that this is not in fact necessary for the founder, the government already knows what it will appoint and that it is in fact necessary to leave this to the Government as the founder, that such a proposal is in some way also inconsistent with other legislation. In short, let's leave this to the Government, the National Assembly is dealing with transport safety issues, at least as regards the public road safety agency, and we trust the Government. In fact, this argument fades somewhat after today's vote on the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, where, interestingly, a public agency is also established. Article 18 says well when it comes to the agency's organs, who appoints members of the board of agencies - the National Assembly! So, in the law you passed this morning, where the agency is re-established and which has its own council and directors and members of the agency, of course we appoint the Council there, and even the President and members of the administration - appoints the National Assembly. Although the original bill was called by the Government, there was then an amendment through coalition coordination to the state council to do so. So when it comes to the law on capital investment management, the agency that will take care of it, the world as the highest authority is appointed by the National Assembly. Here, in our proposal, we can exclude the National Assembly. I don't know why double criteria when it comes to capital investments and secondly, to transport security. Why, once, under the previous law, the National Assembly appoints members of the Board of the Agency, here in this proposal, on the proposal of the Road Safety Agency, and this is not necessary and will be done by the founder. In short, I don't know. This is obviously a matter, in fact, for the same form according to our belief, but once the National Assembly is competent, the second time the National Assembly is not competent. Why not also be responsible for transport safety issues, if possible for some investments? But - I don't want to do parallel now - it's probably about capital investments for the government to be there or not to trust or that there needs to be a little bit more control, what the government will propose to the National Assembly, that the National Assembly will say, of course, with the majority that the coalition has, but not here in terms of traffic security. Here, however, the government will name the members of the world as it wishes. And, of course, there is one thing that probably bothers: it bothers because in this proposal of our amendment is "on the proposal of the parliamentary groups". This, of course, also invites the opposition to propose its members, because, in accordance with the electoral result, those members would not have decisive votes, but could make a meaningful contribution to the functioning of the Council of the Public Transport Safety Agency. This was actually this desire, the purpose of which is to really demonstrate this consensus that the National Assembly is supposed to have, because none of us, whenever we talked about traffic safety, have heard that I would object. But, of course, the greater involvement of the opposition is opposed, which, of course, would have been through such an amendment, if it had been accepted, of course it would have been demonstrated. But, you know, the coalition and the opposition are changing, and maybe in the coming term we'll get such an amendment to the food on one side. However, if there is a problem, it is particularly disturbing that, for example, in the second law, the National Assembly appoints members of the Council of the Agency and does not do so in this proposal. In short, once the National Assembly has to participate, and secondly not, we have a public agency. However, I propose that, in fact, given that a law has been passed this morning, where the National Assembly appoints members of the Council of the Public Agency, it is for capital investments that we now fix it here, and this amendment gives this possibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Marinič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Well, whenever we talk about increasing road safety and, in general, it is my basic assumption in this direction that certain changes will lead to improvements in road safety. In some ways, this also works, if we look at 10-year statistics or one year-olds, the goal in short leads us to no road traffic casualties. By Article 5, the SDS Group proposed an amendment. If I would like to make a point of content, then allow me to first sum up the second point of Article 5 which speaks of the bodies of the public agency or the second point which speaks of the composition of the Council of the public agency. Do you know what led us to suggest that the National Assembly be the one who would appoint members of the Agency's council? Simply because we are looking at this second point and find that the 11 members of the Council proposed for a period of five years are appointed directly by the six members of the Council of the Public Agency and five by the invitation to tender. See, in advance of marriage, the taxing number, determined, gives you the feeling that it is accurate in advance to know who, which profiles or what people are going to be in here. It leaves that doubt. If we leave this decision to the National Assembly, let us rule out this possibility. Why would I say that? If we want to and if we really want to make progress, then perhaps some freshness, a change, is welcome. Thus, the applicant comes from some specific number, which is determined and leaves doubt or doubt that there are already some well-known people here who will move from one place to another when the law enters into force. However, this content and something innovative is not achieved, because we have quite a few experts in the field of transport in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, when a number is determined in some way in the very content of the law and it is already known who is the one who will make the decision, we do not allow or allow experts who are waiting for their opportunity and the opportunity to help them with their knowledge to increase road safety. It is a fundamental principle, as long as bicycles are rolling on cars, so long is a potential risk for road traffic accidents, and our goal, as we said, is to reduce road traffic casualties. But let us give the opportunity to some new people, the new experts that we have in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of road and other traffic, we have them, it is a great selection. Here we seal our fate, give the five a chance one way or another, and for the sixth, as if the applicants knew exactly who these people were, not to say which of the current associations or which others they would be transferring to the world of public agencies. We have therefore proposed the content of the amendments to this Article 5. I hope, and in particular, that, precisely because of the effective provision of increased road safety, we will also help in such a way that, if we are Members and Members of the National Assembly responsible and this is a national level for reducing road traffic casualties, we will take advantage of this opportunity and this opportunity to allow in some way some experts waiting for their opportunity, but we do not see them, or we simply do not give them the opportunity to show this knowledge, and we would probably help to ensure greater road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this Fifth Amendment? Please, Mr. Weber, Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you. I will not support the amendment to Article 5 of the SDS Group. In fact, the amendment states that eleven members are actually appointed to the Council of the Public Agency on a proposal from the parliamentary groups and that the composition must be proportionate to the election outcome of the last elections in the National Assembly. I think it's really not important for traffic safety, whether it's left, right, middle or right, or most of the countries' traffic is taking place. This has been well regulated by individual countries. As has been said, the Committee has also pointed out that such a proposal is contrary to Slovenian legislation. If we also make a comparison with what has been adopted already today in the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, there is a significant difference in what has been adopted in this law. Among other things, the SDS proposal is that, in managing capital investments on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly appoints members of the Board of the Agency and here, on a proposal from the groups of Members. And certainly, the procedure that goes through the National Assembly alone is through the parliamentary groups in breach of the legal order. We were also reminded of this at the transport meeting. In this respect, it is not possible to accept this amendment as stated. However, I think it is even more important that we give the opportunity to have representatives of users, professional organisations and civil society organisations come to the institution's world on the basis of a public call. This is possible in the content of the law that we are adopting today, and I think that this is also the greatest gain actually when we decide to set up an agency, that this agency is as far as political interests are concerned and that it is actually dominated by the profession or control of those who are implementing, let's say, through their political function, transport policy. And it was this independence that was strongly reflected not least in the last period when the former Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Training was involved in the Ministry of Transport and I must admit that it was for quite some time, perhaps even a few years, to notice that it was significantly less present in the public than it had been in the public eye with its actions before it was included in the Ministry of Transport. This shows that if you're independent, you're monitoring traffic events, you're trying to keep that in mind, and that's this big advantage that we're trying to finally get the law on how to set up an agency. In fact, there will be more opportunities for the profession, and all those who actively monitor the developments in traffic will give timely warning and, last but not least, propose important substantive changes. So when you say that if we talk today about how to design something, this agency will also have the task of proposing substantive changes to individual laws that are important for improving or improving road safety. The measure that you mentioned and related to the increase in penalties has been criticised in the previous period and I think, I don't think, but I know that the criticism was purely and only because it relates only to the increase in penalties. Where's the roadside training? This is what we have pointed out in the previous mandate and, of course, this education was not in those measures. The Agency will also have this task and the Agency's Council in particular this task of adopting a programme through which education and the attitude towards everything that is going on in transport can be carried out in particular. And that is what we all really need to respect road traffic to the greatest extent possible and thus reduce the likelihood that accidents, which often also have very tragic, tragic consequences, will occur. And if we include in this story the National Assembly, that only the National Assembly is defined as one who is qualified enough to appoint representatives into the world, I do not think that this would be an effective solution for road safety, so I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I find that there is no desire to discuss it, so I conclude it. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda, which will be adjourned by the 16th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u197	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the 3rd item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems in the framework of the shorter procedure. As no amendments to the supplementary proposal have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 7th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on the transfer of pension rights under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 6th item of the agenda - second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on kindergartens in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Article 2 first. We decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] [[Continuation]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Finally, we decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. The Secretary of State, Alenka Kovšca, proposes that the third hearing be held at the same meeting. However, we are concluding a second reading of the bill. Since the applicant proposed that the third hearing be held at the same meeting and since amendments were adopted by less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal were adopted in the second reading, the assembly will decide on the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure or at the third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I repeat, however, that the Secretary of State has made such a proposal publicly. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 22 April 2010, following a final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment to the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Dear President! Now, for the first time, you had a proposal from the applicant submitted in stock to continue to address this point. I do not think it is good for the presidents to allow that, on behalf of the proposer, this is said by the Ministry, the Minister or the Secretary of State in stock to propose a proposal on how to vote. If the three amendments tabled by our parliamentary group were accepted, the condition would not be met for the amendments to be accepted in less than a dozen articles. I suggest that in the future you do not allow the work of the National Assembly, which is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that, in some other cases, you are extremely intolerant, extremely impatient when any matter or proposals are proposed. In this case, it is extremely benevolent that you and your services tolerate the proposals of the Government or of the coalition Members. It's the Unikum! This has not yet happened, although we have supported this proposal, we do not want matters to get complicated, but I suggest that you do not take advantage of such practices in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. First, it must be said that the practice has been both in this and in the previous mandate, but if any of the members of the groups opposes that the Secretary of State or the representative of the Government announces or submits a proposal before then, then we will no longer do so. However, this has happened in this and also in the previous mandate. So far, no one has objected to it, and this has been done. If one of the parliamentary groups opposes this, we will not take this into account. Thank you very much. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Safety Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, Res, LDS and DeSUS to Article 55. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding the second reading of the bill. The Secretary of State wants the word. Please, Mr. Jakomin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much. In accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as a candidate, we propose that a third consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, under the first paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, take a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 19. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 22 April 2010, following a final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC OF EXCHANGE AND INTERPERSONAL PROTECTION OF SECRET DATA. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. POINT OF THE DAY LINE - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF THE ECONOMIC CONA, OFFICIAL VERIFICATION TEXT OF THE COST LAW, OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF SECURITY IN RAILWAY AND OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Economic Zones Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The revised text of the Law on excise duty is confirmed. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Railway Safety Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Law on State Border Control is confirmed. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the assembly will consider the request of the Maribor District Court for a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against a judge of the District Court in Slovenian Konjice. We are moving on to the hearing of the request of the District Court in Maribor for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Slovenian Konjice. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Maribor. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The mandate-election commission shall propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act relating to the request of the Maribor District Court, operative number Kpr 255/2007 of 6.8.2008 for the decision to initiate criminal proceedings against the District Court of Justice in the Slovenian Horses of Suzanne Grill for the suspicion of a criminal offence or official rights under Article 261/III of the Penal Code and for the taking of bribes under Article 267/I of the Penal Code, shall not recognise the immunity of the District Court of Justice in the Slovenian Horses of Suzanne Grill and permit the conduct of criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 71 in attendance, 70 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in connection with cartel arrangements. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members shall be mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u202	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, I raised quite a few very specific questions to the President of the Government concerning the consequences of cartel arrangements and the consequences of the procedures introduced in the previous government's mandate against those responsible for construction irregularities. I did not get any concrete answers to the questions. I've got a deal to make, "we'll try to make sure that everything is okay, so that those responsible will receive the appropriate court hearing" and so on. This is the answer to every single question that the President of the Government can give us, and of course he cannot satisfy us. According to the Court of Auditors’ assessments, the result of the cartel agreement on the construction of the motorway cross was astronomical for Slovenian taxpayers. We have overpaid the built-up highway cross for about two billion euros, which means that all citizens are in the thousands of euros. If the government, if the President of the Government does not really do everything to clarify the procedures that have been introduced, accelerate justice to hit those that must be hit, and that punishment to hit those who must be caught, then, of course, everything will go along the familiar river Dogs bark, the caravan goes on. There are arrangements for the last business to go on the caravan. The business of rebuilding the Brno airport was again divided by SCT and Primorje by key 70:30. A while ago, then. No one takes the fight against cartels seriously, the fight against tycoons, and the most painful thing is that overpaid highways have actually taken over these construction companies, that they have become previous directors now owners and that they are happy to work inconveniently. Moreover, those who have investigated these cartel arrangements and also abuses in the construction of an airport tower in the past are now being investigated. These are the subject of an investigation by criminals, which I have also mentioned by name. The fight against the cartels has turned into their contradictions, and the cartels are happily moving forward. Your Honor! I suggested we discuss this. I think it is unacceptable that none of us here in this room should be responsible and involved in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We vote, the vote is on. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Joyful Zerjava on measures to address the economic crisis. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Parliament's proposal, Mr Györek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Mrana Györekav regarding unpaid contributions to pension and disability insurance by employers. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Petka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Petk's question on cartel arrangements in the field of implementation of part of the motorway programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You have not supported the proposal of Mr Andre Visiak. The contents of his proposal are identical to my proposal. And if you have not supported Vision's proposal, surely my proposal has been completely hopeless. Just like this power is hopeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u205	Thank you very much. First, an explanation of the groups of Members. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] An explanation of the voice in your own name? I'll open the application. Please report. Explanation of the voice of Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u206	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was surprised at your indifference to the vote when we proposed that a debate be held on the response of the President of the Government. Now we have the same theme. The problem is that future generations may have been robbed of the future by such a way of building highways and thus negotiating. Here this great coalition has exceeded the methods of some groups, leaving behind no written documents. This is, I think, the first time they have signed an agreement that is illegal, which is a crime that is contrary to the law and throws a strange light on the whole country and on your indifference that for such big money and for such benefits, when we have apparently also built roads, motorways along inappropriate routes that are more expensive, where construction projects have been in the same place for a long time and have significantly more easily inflated budgets and coalitions are carefree at the same time. The question is, who is the godfather to these great coalitions? Who are the gods sitting here among us? I think that those who wish to wash their consciences will vote in favour of the proposal of colleague Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak? [[No, no, ……]] So we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the travel of the officials of the Ministry of Justice to the United States. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We are living at a time when, or when we want to, coalition Members, we should save in all areas. When travelling abroad - I have always participated in government meetings and in the previous term there has always been an unwritten rule, which has been implemented in full, that more than five people do not travel abroad. Last month, the Minister of Justice issued an invitation to tender for 20 airline tickets to the United States of America. The tendering conditions state that they will visit the UN headquarters. That's where they're supposed to be educated. 18,000 euros for airline tickets. I asked the minister how much more costs were left: diaries, travel costs, hotel services and other essential things that belonged to such travels. I asked the minister what the purpose of the trip was, why 20 officials of the Justice Ministry or the judiciary are travelling to the United States, what is needed. I didn't get any smart answers. On purpose, the Minister spoke of the state paying only €6,000 or €7,000, while the rest would be the European Union's funds. It's as if the European Union's funds were his. The European Union's funds also belong to those funds that need to be carefully saved. I think it is unacceptable and extremely irresponsible for the Minister to afford and send as many as 20 employees abroad. I therefore propose, not only on this subject, but that we look at the travel of ministers, secretaries and other public servants abroad. That is why I have also proposed such a proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ribič, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Dr Rok Žarnic to the question of Mr Ribič's question on the maintenance of watercourses and the cleaning of river streams. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group, Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that the conversation was about the safety of people against floods in flood areas. It also originated in the distribution of funds from the water fund with which much work is being done, but it does not do what it is intended to do. That is why I am confident today that you will support my desire to discuss this here in the National Assembly and also the security of people from floods in the areas themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Aleksandr Zorn, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Majda Shirce to Alexander Zorn's question on control over the use of funds received to co-finance the programming content of the media. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jožef Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Dr Ljubice Jelusič to the question of the delegation, Mr Jerovšek, regarding the position on the proposals resulting from the petition. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Members. Joseph Jerovšek, SDS Task Force.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The more transparent and blurred policy in various areas and the more controversial non-state decisions are the obvious decisions and tactics of this coalition, as well as probably of the communist coalitions. And something similar has happened in this country's long-term security. We here in this House have adopted a national security strategy, we have collectively confirmed it, but for a little while now the diametrically opposed positions have been rejected by the Government, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, veteran organisations and so on. The government's positions on the committee have been translated into decisions on the literal record. And the government MPs of the four parties refused to do so by saying that they repugnantly reject the views of the Government. Who can be more confused than the citizens of this country that there is no clear direction in the field of state security? Now, of course, the dilemma hangs in the air, or this coalition really wants to get out of NATO.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u213	Comrade Jerovšek, the explanation of the voice, not the comments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u214	I'm just explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u215	We have not heard anything so far about how you and your Group of Members will vote. You still have time to say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u216	We will vote in favour of discussing the exceptional political consequences of such behaviour of the coalition and of such an important issue. I think it is absolutely important to make this clear whether this government, the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Defence have experienced a clear lack of confidence. Then they should put in an interpolation against which they voted. In such an important area, it cannot and must not be ambiguity, so I propose that the debate be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In my own name. Does any other Member want to explain his voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] He has the word Anton Anderlich in his name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u218	I would very much like to support the debate on the Minister's response, which could not answer the questions raised by Mr Jerovšek. That is why, of course, I do not know what to discuss. It is very clear that the vote on this point is that they want answers to questions that ministers do not answer. This place has been packed up a lot yesterday, as we've been dealing with these issues for a week. So if anyone else can tell me what's to be discussed in explanation of vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u219	Mr. Anderlich, he can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u220	He can't? Mr Jerovšek, I am extremely sorry that I cannot support this because I do not know what it should be. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, of course, I can't support that, and secondly, it's right to define the question and what you want to know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. But we have learned that you will not support this decision, and that is the purpose of explanations of vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There's no controversy. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the council didn't take the decision. In accordance with the proposal of Member Milan Čadež, the assembly will decide in the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Dorian Marusic to Milan Čadež's question on the implementation of emergency medical assistance. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question by Mr Puksic on the competence to determine the unconstitutionality and illegality of the rules. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 16th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at nine o'clock. Goodbye.
