ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Janja Klasinc, Dr. Peter Verlič, mag. Branko Grimes, Tadej Slapnik, Aloise Posedel, mag. Stefan Tisel, Milenko Ziherl from 2 p.m. on, Janko Weber, Rudolf Petan from 17.30 p.m., Sam Bevk from 13 to 18 p.m., Franc Jurša and Roberto Battelli. I say hello to everyone! We're moving to 2. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Digital Radiodifusion. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology for the introduction of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the content and reasons for this amendment to the law, which has been tabled under urgent procedure. In October 2007, the Digital Broadcasting Act, which regulates a very important area, was adopted in this High Council, namely the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting. This transition is crucial in order to release the spectrum on which we will be able to develop broadband services in the future and to ensure that the largest area of the Republic of Slovenia is covered by this service. Our ambition is that it becomes a universal service. The law also set the final date after which radio broadcasting in analogue technology will no longer be allowed in Slovenia, i.e. the date after which it should be available only in digital technology. This date was set on 1 December 2010, the date approaching. The law laid down the procedure for the State to establish the construction of so-called multiplexes, so-called networks allowing individual operators to transmit a digital signal. One of these networks was allocated to national television and it was stipulated for this network that, at least 6 months before the start of exclusively digital broadcasting, it must provide coverage to residents with signals, i.e. public broadcasting programmes, to a extent not less than 95 %. In implementing this law, we have in the meantime received an APEK warning that in some narrowly defined geographically rounded areas with December 1st, this cut-off date, problems could arise that, for certain technical reasons, RTV Slovenia would not be able to ensure coverage of these small areas with a digital signal. The coverage to be provided with a high degree of certainty is expected to exceed 90% but could be questioned by these 95%. In short, to avoid a situation in which, on the one hand, the APEK would be forced to act against the operator of this first multiplex, and to avoid any illegal situation and, on the other hand, to avoid a situation where a certain part of the population of the Republic of Slovenia would not be covered by RTV Slovenia, i.e. by this public service, we are proposing this novelty, which, in the event that RTV Slovenia itself, together with the APEK, will find that, within a period available at the time when only the digital signal will be available, in such areas, will not be able to provide a digital signal that, in such cases, the special role of national APEK will allow, exceptionally, to extend the transmission of the signal only in those areas in analogic techniques for the period until the end of June next year, i.e. for six months. This law, therefore, allows action in a situation that will not necessarily occur, but there is a possibility that it will happen and we want to avoid the unloving consequences in terms of respect for the law and in terms of the provision of this service to citizens and citizens. That's why it's an emergency procedure, so right now. We have participated in a meeting of the committee that has supported this law, including those that take account of the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, the Government supports and proposes that this amendment should solve the problem that has been pointed out in the most appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Matjaž Zanoskar to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the report of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development is at its 6th emergency meeting. Ten. 2010 discussed the proposal for a law on amendments to the Digital Broadcasting Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 78th meeting, on 8. Ten. 2010 decided that the proposal for a law on amendments to the Digital Broadcasting Act should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and from a legislative technical point of view, and has made a comment to Article 1. During the course of the course of business, an amendment was tabled and adopted by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS members to Article 1. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technological Development held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendment tabled. Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, also participated in the work. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law which includes the adoption of the amendment has been prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Mr Minister with the Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! This law is a law that has only three articles and the debate on it shows that I do not know how extensive the law is and, of course, we are also a little surprised that, despite having only three articles, the Government has not been able to prepare it to meet all the criteria that would apply to this law and then had to supplement it. This amendment has, of course, also been adopted within the meaning of the coalition party's proposal. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act, since this is the only way that the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia will be able in justified cases to allow the extension of the Radio Television Decision of Slovenia on the allocation of radio frequencies for analogue television, which is expected to take effect until 30 June 2011. In its explanation, the Government stated that the proposal is being considered following an urgent procedure in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State which might arise with regard to the provision of the right to information. It is noted that there is a possibility that in some geographically rounded areas with 1 December 2010, which is defined as the date of transition from analogue to digital, coverage will not be ensured with the signal of Radiotelevision of Slovenia in digital form. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are asked why the Government had only set a new deadline until 30 June 2011, since there would be no difference if this deadline had been allowed until 31. 12. 2011, as there may also be some unforeseen consequences and it would be very unusual for us to meet again at the beginning of next year with the amendment of this law once again this deadline has been extended. In the SDS Group, we agree that the Slovenian population needs to be allowed a smooth transition to digital technology, but we ask ourselves nevertheless, given that this law has long been in force, why the RS Government has not played a more active role in the deployment of new technology at that time, because it could, through its levers up to this institution, take a more intense course and, of course, take action. The excuses that such or other reasons have given rise to this reservation are not the most appropriate. Apparently, the government preferred to replace the director of television, with the director-general, with all those staff kitchens and, finally, with the preparation of the Television Act, rather than dealing with those matters that would be more important for the state of Slovenia and also for viewers and viewers of Radio Television. Nevertheless, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, hello! In 2007, when this law was passed, we set the date of 1 December 2010 as the day when we will arrive in Slovenia from the analogue broadcast of a television signal to a digital television signal. In any event, despite the warnings given by many of the people of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the switch of the signal, it will not be possible to monitor public broadcasting or other programmes, since it is likely that many people do not understand what this means and what the consequences of this change are. Unfortunately, it is likely that the most affected and hit will be the very socially weak strata of the population, the inhabitants of the outermost and peripheral areas of Slovenia, where no other way of receiving TV programs than via the ordinary antenna is available to them at all. And it is you, by the nature of things, who are also the economically weak that will be most likely to face the additional costs of adapting TV sets to new technologies. According to the applicant, the latest data even show that the current coverage of the population, in September 2010, with a digital signal of public RTV is only slightly more than 85%. Following the completion of the second installment phase, which will be completed by the end of October, 93 % coverage is foreseen. At the beginning of 2011, coverage will be 96%. In view of the above, there would be no coverage of digital signal in some geographically rounded areas by 1 December 2010 when analogue converters were shut down. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we support a solution whereby the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia can decide which analogue converters can operate even after a digital transition and thus ensure the coverage of the population through public broadcasting programmes. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act. We therefore have before us a proposal for a new Law on Digital Broadcasting, which foresees that analogue broadcasters of RTV Slovenia in white foxes or areas that will not be covered by digital transmitters by the expiry of the deadline for the decommissioning of analogue transmitters on 1 December 2011 may operate until 30 June 2011. This has been decided by the proposer on the basis of possible delays in the establishment of the digital network. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal as we believe that all citizens should be allowed to exercise the constitutional right to information. In accordance with the law in force, analogs and digital transmitters must be excluded on 1 December and all authorisation for the delivery of the analogue system shall expire by the end of December. According to the proposaler, it is a preventive arrangement if it turns out that the multiplex A established by RTV Slovenia would not cover all residents, as prescribed, after shutting down the analogue transmitter, the novel will allow the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, APEK, RTV Slovenia, to allow the signal on white foxes to continue broadcasting in analogue technology, but for as long as possible until the end of June 2011. On 17 September, the Ministry assessed that white foxes, which could not cover approximately 6% of the population and 40,000 households after the December shutdown of analogue television broadcasters. However, the deadlines for the transition to digital broadcasting will remain unchanged until 1 December this year. In the DeSUS Group, however, we are pleased to hear Minister Golobic's announcements that the country will provide the necessary converters free of charge to those who are exempt from payment of RTV subscriptions because of the socio-economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on Complementation of the Digital Broadcasting Act seeks to prevent the possibility and risk that some geographically rounded areas will not be covered by RTV Slovenia programmes in digital technology due to a certain date of transition from analogue broadcasting to digital, i.e. from 1 December 2010. It is a danger that some residents will lose their television signal and consequently lose their right to be informed by the media. Therefore, timely adoption of an appropriate legal solution is necessary to maintain the analogue signal or television in force until the relevant date, as proposed, by 30 June 2011, which is why the proposal for the adoption of the law is based on an urgent procedure. We are all aware of the benefits of digital broadcasting and of the greater use of radio spectrum in digital technology, greater opportunities for offering and using new services and many other advantages. The proposed law thus complements the radio spectrum regulation in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications and regulates individual digital broadcasting related technical issues, i.e. the gradual transition from analogue to digital broadcasting. The law will allow APEC to decide which analogue converters will be able to operate until this extended deadline, that is until 30 June 2011. Unfortunately, such a proposal would also cause a lot of discomfort to users, including in areas not defined as areas of white fox, as there are many examples of simultaneous use of TV apparatus on cable and also on the antenna, not to mention cases where there is no cable connection. Dissatisfaction will also be with traders and so on, and it would therefore make sense to extend such a period of time by perhaps a maximum of 24 months. It would therefore make sense to extend this period of extinguishing of the analogue signal to other geographically rounded areas, i.e. also those areas which are not designated as white foxes, so that broadcasters can extend the programme in a particular geographical area simultaneously in digital and analogue techniques, at most, 24 months from the beginning of the simultaneous analogue and digital broadcasting period. However, the phase-out should start at least 6 months before the end of the simultaneous broadcasting period. This would make sense, because otherwise there will be problems, as I mentioned earlier, and in the further debate on any amendments tabled, the matter could be debated in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The basic purpose of the Law on Complementation of the Digital Broadcasting Act is to ensure the coverage of the television signal by public RTV programmes, also after the date of transition from analogue broadcasting to digital, which is also important in terms of the exercise of the constitutional right to information. There is a possibility that in individual areas after 1 December of this year, which is defined as the date of transition from analogue broadcasting to digital, there will be no coverage with a signal in digital technology. This applies in particular to areas covered by certain smaller converters. Ensuring uninterrupted coverage can also be problematic due to unforeseen weather conditions, as the transition will take place during the winter when such a situation is possible. Therefore, under this Act, the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency may decide that the decision on the allocation of radio frequencies by analogue television shall remain valid or may be renewed until the end of June 2011. Since the LDS Club supports the constitutional right of citizens and citizens to information, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! Social Democrats support the amendment of the broadcasting law, as it allows more flexibility in the resolution of white foxes, i.e. areas without coverage when switching from analogue to digital television. The change does not slow the transition, but prolongs the possibility of analogue reception for those who do not have a digital signal available in any case. Social Democrats want the transition to be as cheap as possible for all those who need to buy digital signal converters or a new TV. Here we think it would be useful to consider the possibility of extending the analogue signal to other areas, giving people more time to buy converters, at a lower price, as this is gradually falling. In addition, we note the need to ensure that our frequencies are continuously occupied in border areas, especially with Italy, because the latter is not a party to the Geneva Convention, so there is a danger that their television broadcasters will occupy us. As we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will also support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Agenda item — REVELATION OF THE DRAFT DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE REFORMING OF THE UNIVERSE IN LOVE, tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology to further explain the draft decree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u18	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! I'll be very brief. It is a matter of urgency for the National Assembly to make substantive changes to this decree, to correct certain titles, to define the work area of individual colleges within the university. I propose that you give this agreement to these amendments so that the formal situation is in line with the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Matjaž Zanoškar to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to present the report of the work of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development on the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the recasting of the University of Ljubljana. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development is at its 12th session. Ten. 2010 as a parent working body, considered the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana, submitted by the Government pursuant to Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 15 of the Law on Higher Education. The legislative and legal service examined the proposed decision in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and commented on Article 4. The opinion was also given by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which fully supported the proposal. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. Mr Gregor Golobič also participated in the work of the Committee. Mr Golobič, representative of the proposer, introduced a supplementary explanation to the motion for a resolution. He said that the decree would name the study areas, align them with the regulation on the introduction and use of the classification system, education and training, and the title of the Faculty of Health would also change. Without discussion in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft decree. No amendments were adopted on the motion for a decree on the working body. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development in the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the recasting of the University of Ljubljana be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u22	Good-bye again, Mr Vice President, Minister and Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is merely a change related to the status definition of the University of Ljubljana, Article 1, where the amended title of the Faculty of Health and Article 2 concerning the activities of the university and the members are taken into account in Chapter 2, this is an amendment to Article 4, paragraph 4, and Article 5, with regard to the harmonisation of the designation of study areas with the Regulation on the Classification System of Education and Training, where the additional study area of the University is classified at the Faculty of Pharmacy. Then there are some additions or amendments to the transitional and final provisions, which is all that relates to this amendment of the decree, and we will support them in the Slovenian National Party, as there is nothing else to say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u24	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this motion for a decree because it is a completely understandable technical nature of this proposal, which there are no reservations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups No amendments were adopted by the parent working body to the motion for a decree and no amendments could therefore be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE COST LAW tabled by the Government to the Assembly. I give the floor to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! With the last amendment to the Excise Act of July 2010, the Government proposed new excise amounts, including electricity and natural gas, in order to ensure the stability of public finances when preparing the budget balance. Despite the fact that raising excise duty amounts means a certain impact on the individual consumer and those economic operators who do not meet the legal conditions for the exemption of excise duty because the share of energy costs in the final value of their product is less than 50%, the Government considered that the proposed amendments at that time constitute an appropriate compromise between the various objectives. Following the entry into force of the law, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy continued discussions with representatives of representative associations of the economy and weighed possible different solutions. These discussions highlighted some of the broader problems faced by the electricity or natural gas industry in manufacturing processes. The amount of excise duty is one of these segments. That is why we have agreed to continue discussions in various areas and to look for the best possible solutions. The first result of these talks is today in the form of a new compromise solution on the amount of electricity excise duty or natural gas. In fact, the proposed law retains the current excise duty for both of the mentioned energy at an unaltered level. However, the electricity excise duty provided for for on 1 November 2010 will not take place as a result of the adoption of this Act. At the time of the preparation of the previous amendment of the Law, the Government stressed that it was an intervention measure and would closely monitor the situation with regard to electricity and natural gas prices and propose amendments to the measures adopted, as appropriate. Following a re-examination of the situation, both in terms of the requirements of economic operators and also in terms of the impact that the anticipated increase in excise duties would have on inflation, the Government has decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a change to the Excise Law that is before you. We estimate that, due to the proposed law, the revenue of the state budget on excise duties will be lower than originally planned, and in 2010 about €8 million, and in 2011 about € 103 million, and this new estimate of the revenue of the State budget for 2011 is already taken into account in the proposal for a revised budget to be considered in the short term. Your Honor! It takes into account the reasons and effects that we want to achieve with the proposed bill. We propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a new Law on excise duties be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Chappić, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law as a parent working body at its 28th emergency meeting. Ten. 2010 It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on Articles 5, 6 and 9. The amendment was tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 5, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 6 and the Mag's Member to Article 6. Radovan Žerjav to Article 6. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative pointed out that the comments were taken on both the 5th and the general comments on the 6th and 9th Articles of the Nomotechnical Nature, and the comment on Article 5 was duly taken into account in the amendment tabled by the Coalition groups. However, the second point concerns Article 60 of the current law, which is not the subject of the proposed amendment, and after its entry into force in this Article there will be a false reference to one of the paragraphs of Article 54. It is therefore a warning to be taken into account in the preparation of the next amendment to the Law on excise duty, and by then an appropriate interpretation of the reference referred to in Article 60 of the Law is necessary. In the debate, members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the amendments tabled by the MEP. Radovan Žerjava and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to Article 6, which proposed further reductions in electricity and natural gas excise duties during the period of the economic crisis. In the debate, the two amendments, as part of their additional explanations, pointed out, inter alia, that the Government's behaviour was unacceptable, which, in the context of the previous amendment of the excise law, ensured that the economy would have no negative consequences, and now the law is being amended for this very reason. The question was raised whether there was too much haste in the adoption of the previous novel, and then the assessments of its consequences were not made, which is either a concern of excruciating and irresponsible behaviour, or whether it is simply a lack of awareness of the issue on the part of law-makers. It was pointed out that the Government is now correcting the error that has been made, but does not maintain the initial situation in the field of excise duties, as was the case before the last amendment. It was pointed out that this was not in line with its promises not to increase tax burdens. With regard to the amendment to Article 6, the representative of the Government drew attention to the reasons why they could not be supported and, in this context, highlighted in particular the adoption of a compromise agreement with the economy, which provided for the continuation of the lower excise duty burden as established on 1 August 2010. Following its provision, discussions will also continue on the possibility of selective action in the field of excise duty in certain segments of the economy, as provided for by the European Directive. The amendment would result in a further reduction in the budget revenue which is not planned in the proposed budgets for the coming years and would result in a discrepancy between the excise law and the budget adopted. The Committee further defined its Rules of Procedure to the amendments tabled and adopted the amendment of the coalition groups by Article 5 but did not adopt the amendment of the MEP. Radovan Žerjava and the amendment of Article 6 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. The adopted amendment is included in the updated proposal for a law you received at the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There was a mag in the word. Borut Saiovic, who will not present his position. Mr Bogdan Čepič has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you, again, for your word. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise. Notwithstanding the fact that excise duties paid by energy, alcohol and tobacco are an extremely important revenue and reliable source of the budget, the Government has decided, on the basis of comments and has warned, in particular from the economy, that no other harmonisation of excise duties, as planned, has been carried out. The proposed measure aims, irrespective of the additional need for budgetary revenues, to reduce the negative consequences of the financial and economic crisis, to reduce the amounts of electricity consumption adopted. In order to achieve the second step of the increase in excise duty to be carried out from 1 November 2010, an excessive burden on the Slovenian economy and a significant deterioration in the competitiveness of Slovenian companies could be achieved, and it is therefore essential that the proposed law be enforced before 1 November 2010. The question may be asked whether you did not know this before, and we have all warned you about this, including with the amendments, it has been known and the budget revenues were planned. However, I trust the Government's representatives who explained to the Committee on Finance that this reduction was decided primarily on the basis of the strong arguments put forward by the economy. The government decided not to carry out any other harmonisation and to remain excise duties as set out on 1 August 2010. This decision will also result in an increase in the budget deficit, estimated at 0.3% of GDP, as it is not possible to replace this revenue deficit with other revenues. The proposed solutions determine a excise duty on electricity of 3,05 euros per megawatt hour [[MWh]] , that is for business and non-business use. In addition, the amount of excise duty on natural gas used for heating of 0,018 euros per cubic metre and a transitional period of up to 1 May 2014 shall be determined, including the amount of excise duty on natural gas for the purpose of propulsion of 0,018 euros per cubic metre. After the previous period, the excise duty on natural gas for propulsion purposes will still be 0.0981 euros per cubic metre. Thus, under the assumption that the law will be enforced in October 2010, even after 1 November 2010, when the second harmonisation of excise duty from electricity under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duty is to be carried out, the amount of excise duty should be the same as that applicable from 1 August 2010. In all other articles, the draft law contains editorial corrections aimed at bringing the applicant into line with the individual provisions of the law. As a result of the proposed lower excise duty on natural gas electricity, based on the latest change in the amount of electricity and natural gas excise duty applicable from 1 August 2010, the revenues will be lower than planned and cannot be replaced by other public financial revenues. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats we support the proposed changes in excise duties because we believe that fiscal consolidation must be based on a reduction in public financial expenditure, which will have little impact on economic growth than can be the case with an increase in excise duties. Of course, the proposed changes will also result in lower planned inflation in 2010 and 2011, as foreseen by the increase in excise duties, which is also, of course, positive.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of the law is, according to the proposaler, to set excise duties at such a level that business operations are not compromised and their international competitiveness is weakened and that changes in retail electricity and natural gas prices would not affect excessive inflation growth. In doing so, we cannot go beyond the fact that the last amendment to the Law on excise duty was adopted only three months ago. At that time, we drew attention to the damaging effects of the enormous increase in excise duties on electricity and natural gas, which the economy would feel, but the government refused to listen to us. The Government is now partially correcting this error, but excise duties will still be three times higher than before the adoption of the previous amendment of the law. This, of course, means a disagreement between the government’s promises that it will not increase taxes and what it really does. This is also contrary to the words of the President of the Government, who made it clear that the increase in taxes does not lead to the consolidation of public finances. This change is intended to raise electricity excise duties from one euro to 3.5 euros per MWh in August 2010 and from 1 November to 12.1 euros per MWh. It is now a sudden change so that the excise duty on electricity is set at 3,05 euros for MWh, both for business and non-business consumption. This is still three times higher than it was before the adoption of the previous novel of the Law on Excise. It is similar to natural gas, which determines the amount of excise duty on natural gas used for heating at 0,0180 euros per cubic metre. The previous amendment adopted 0.0363 euros per cubic metre and a transitional period until 1 May 2014, in which the amount of excise duty on natural gas for propulsion purposes was also EUR 0.0180 per cubic metre. Prior to the adoption of the previous novelty, it amounted to excise duty for heating and for propulsion purposes of 0,0063 euros per cubic metre. After the transition period, the natural gas excise duty for propulsion purposes will be 0.0981 per cubic metre. In our parliamentary group, we are opposed to the policy of raising excise duty during the financial and economic crisis, and we have also proposed an amendment on the home labour body to return the amount of electricity and natural gas excise duty to the state before the last novelty of excise law was enacted, that is to say, by 1 August 2010. However, as usual, this was not accepted. However, since the increase in excise duties is still smaller than envisaged by the law currently in force, we will not oppose the amendment of the excise law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u34	Your Honor! We last discussed excise duties just over three months ago as part of the discussions on the budget rebalancing for this year. At that time, after re-checking the dynamics of public financial stabilisation, the Government adopted a decision on urgent amendments to the law on the basis of some of the changed macroeconomic parameters and very serious economic responses. It has decided to set excise duties at such a level that business operations will not be compromised, in particular weakening their international competitiveness and that changes in retail electricity and natural gas prices would not at the same time affect excessive inflation growth. The measure is marginally octorated, irrespective of the additional need for budgetary revenue to limit the negative consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The financial implications of the state budget law, both by the proposer, are estimated to increase the deficit of around 0.3% of GDP. The beneficial effects or benefits of the so-called other consequences of the law prevail, are reflected in the lower burden on businesses and do not diminish their competitiveness potential. Much of what happened was said three months ago. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we believe that the possibility of increasing tax burdens is extremely limited at the same time as today. We are faced – and if this is the expression of the crisis, then the recession is not over – with a markedly low ability to generate public finances. This is a fact that leads us along two wrong paths, or that we are adapting expenditure without serious structural changes to the high tax return, or that we are in debt for relatively large financing of all types of anti-crisis measures, and consequently we are increasing the public financial deficit. Today's debate also foretells a responsible debate on the budget and public financial credibility of all stakeholders, especially those at the top of their responsibilities. The complementary proposal before us is supported by the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The question that's most puzzling right now is, "Does our government know what it's doing?" It sounds cynical and exploited, but let me explain. On 7 July this year, we adopted amendments to the Excise Law at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly following an emergency procedure. Of course, the urgent procedure was necessary to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, as the Government provided additional budgetary revenues under the law to limit the negative consequences of the financial and economic crisis, totalling €39 million for this year. Despite our opposition to the tax raising policy during the times of the economic and general crisis and our warnings that there is a severe additional burden on the economy, we have demonstrated in concrete cases that the Government has been inadvertently and unprofessionally deceiving the public when it negligently claimed that the amendment will not have a significant impact on the business of economic operators. Economic operators using energy and electricity for manufacturing processes, and in doing so, electricity or energy represents an essential cost of this production process, should already be exempt from excise duty payments under the applicable excise law. Our proof that he was wrong has been overheard. Today it is counted, and today it is October 19th of the same year, and we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Excise, of course, by Emergency Procedure. Why? In order to avoid difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, the second step in increasing excise duties on electricity could lead to an excessive burden on the Slovenian economy and a significant deterioration in the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. Interesting! The reason for the amendment of the law is, according to the proposaler, a re-examination of the consequences of the recent changes adopted by the law on the financial functioning of the economy and its impact on international competitiveness, in particular in the individual sectors of the processing industry, in the light of budgetary needs. The aim is to set excise duty at such a level that business operations are not compromised and their international competitiveness weakened. More than obviously, the law that we are amending today was then prepared very quickly and completely without proper consideration of the consequences that this law will have. Clearly, this knowledge or conduct was lacking and the consequences could not be assessed. To listen to a well - meaning proposal from the opposition, however, is already utopia. If today we want to keep the promises made by the President of the Government on the 2011/2012 budget, that taxes will not change, or that they will not increase, then we should return excise duties to the level before the June changes, which is EUR 1 per MWh – but no, today, according to the proponents, we are introducing a solution that is supposed to maintain electricity consumption at the level of 1 August 2010. But fortunately, that's not true either. I don't know if the government knows how much electricity was spent on August 1st, or whether it's moving and misleading all of us here. With this bill, the government determines the excise duty amount of 3.05 euros per MWh, which is 3 euros lower than the excise duty applicable on 1 August 2010. As it is said, this is still not the amount of excise duty before the first intervention at its level in July this year, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have prepared a solution that puts the implementation of this increase into effect at a time when the financial and economic crisis is expected to pass away and make it easier for the household and the economy to bear the additional financial burden. We will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise. The proposed amendments to excise legislation represent a reliable one of the measures to mitigate the dimension of the global financial crisis. The excise legislation has been amended for the fifth time in this mandate. The excise duties were reduced, e.g. for gas oil and, above all, increased for tobacco products, alcohol, energy, natural gas and electricity. The last change adopted was precisely about raising excise duties, including on natural gas and electricity. This time, however, goes in the opposite direction, in reducing the amount of excise duty as last adopted for that value. It is therefore a proposal to maintain the level of excise duty for natural gas and electricity before the last change. The government has shown a careful examination of the impact of this duty on the economy and has decided that the originally planned November excise duty will not be available. This is a compromise solution for the Government, on the one hand, and for the economy on the other, which, at the time of acceptance of the excise duty raises, has been a loud reminder of the insurmountability of the overburdened economy. Members of the DeSUS are of course in favour of such a compromise, because we believe that this will have a positive impact on the reduction of the burden of the now overburdened Slovenian economy and also on increasing the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. In doing so, let us make it clear that the DeSUS Group, when excise duties were increased in July, strongly opposed this and had many concerns. It seemed to us that the increase in excise duties was precisely for these most important energy players, such as natural gas and electricity, that the Government was proposing adoption without prior analysis, which would also show the negative effects of increasing excise duties on these important energy consumers. We believe that in the future, the Government should identify itself more rationally, more soberly and with a better analytical approach to the creation of excise legislation and adopt such measures as will benefit our economy and increase its competitiveness. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that a little less money will flow into the state budget by failing to raise these excise duties, but we are also aware that on the other hand there will be a much greater impact on the burden of the already burdened economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! We have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian National Party that we are absolutely aware that we are all sitting together at the same table and that we are all going to have something good together for lunch or that we are going to live more modestly. Therefore, three months ago in the Slovenian National Party we did not, absolutely not oppose the raising of tobacco excise duties, we did not oppose absolutely, but we strongly supported the raising of excise duty on alcohol, but we were absolutely opposed to any increase in energy and gas consumption for individual users and for the economy. I personally know that I was upset about this and also with my opposition colleagues. We've been overheard. Maybe that's because, according to the government, we weren't aware of the economic situation or maybe because we were opposition. However, today, while we are here, I cannot help but recall in the Slovenian National Party this way of working a man who takes a car worth 5,000 euros to the market and sets the price of 10,000 euros, sells it for 7,000 euros and says how good he was to the buyer. That's right. Now I don't think it's good and it's not nice that in the National Assembly we Members as well as the Government are showing such a lack of realism or ignorance, because no one can convince me that three months ago they didn't know whether they would have expected an increase in excise duties on energy and gas, which was adopted at the time, that they didn't know that it would have caused much damage to the economy and, of course, a lot of distress to individuals at home. But, well, in the end, there is a law before us today that reduces the cost, but it is greater than when we opposed it. In the Slovenian National Party, we would very much like an amendment to Article 6 of the proposed Slovenian People's Party and SDS to be adopted at the last meeting of the home working body. Not because they're the opposition, but because they were talking about the content we talked about three months ago. And because we're afraid that we won't be sitting here again in three months and then realize that we were right six months ago. We know that with a regulator such as excise duty, it is necessary to help our economy today when it is in such a crisis, but no, I am already stressing this again and again. Today, tomorrow we're gonna change it a little bit, and it's gonna be different. Of course, we cannot say in the Slovenian National Party that we would oppose the proposal of today's Law on Change and Supplements to the Law on Excise. It wouldn't be fair and fair, but sometimes such decisions are serious and sometimes a person from the belly would say, but now we won't support it, just because you're accepting what we're proposing, and you think only yours is right. We will not do as the Government does. We will support this proposal of the law and once again, we ask, point out – however, in this National Assembly we are 90 and 89 at this time, indeed, that we are different options, indeed, that we have different opinions, but everything that arises from the opposition is not greed or ignorance, but sometimes something good. And I hope you at least remember that from this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to Article 11. The amendment was tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have already indicated in my presentation of the opinion of the Group that we have tabled an amendment to Article 11, which is, of course, the explanation that I have already made. Finally, in his address or presentation of the 2011 and 2012 budgets, the President of the Government claimed that the Government would not increase taxes. For this reason, we propose that the application of Article 6(2) be postponed until 1 January 2013, until the expected economy is likely to recover so much that it can bear this additional tax burden. Otherwise, I'd say the following. When I listened to the explanations or opinions of individual parliamentary groups, I was surprised that, literally, we all opposed the changes in the law at that time in July. I don't know exactly, I don't know much about these procedures in the National Assembly, but I don't know exactly who confirmed such amendments to the excise law in July. Because if I listen today, we have opposed them more or less, except perhaps some individual in the National Assembly. Of course I don't know that. There may have also been a mistake at the time of the vote and amendments to the law in July. That's one thing. Next thing. I would like to point out that I was at the College of the President of the National Assembly when we talked about the process of adopting these amendments to the law, I think, in June or early July, because I had warned about specific cases of companies that would pay through what is objectively possible to create some profit, that they would pay so much more for their production process or specifically for the energy industry, but I was warned, somehow they made me for, after Savino, I would say, for a moronic, if I read the law, and I would see that this is not true for economic societies. Since it is not the intention of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly to discuss substantively, I was there without the changes of the law at the time and, of course, I could not give a concrete answer or confirm my belief that many companies are involved in the abnormal increase of these excise duties. Well, now it's obviously turned out to be. I'll get it over with. We propose an amendment or amendment to Article 11 to implement this part. With this amendment, we want this part to be implemented with effect from 1 January 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I can still see the applications for discussion. So I'm asking who else wants to discuss, please sign up. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I must say, I find it difficult to agree with the amendment. It has a positive thinking, it puts the problem somewhere in the future, but we in this country need money today and tomorrow, not after 2013. Surely, when we adopted this law, the support was majority, including mine, we made a mistake. In life, a normal and intelligent person admits a mistake and tries to fix it and fix it. The others, of course, put their heads in the sand or indulge in other people’s mistakes. I'm glad there's been an adjustment to the excise duty downstairs. I estimate that this will greatly help craftsmen, entrepreneurs, the economy in general, but also important before winter many Slovenian households, so I will support the bill in general. However, despite the good will and probably the sincere intention, I cannot agree with the amendment because we simply provide budget revenues with excise duties. If that is not the case, we may be in even greater trouble in another area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. My predecessor said that with this amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, we are delaying the problem to the future. You know, the problem you made in the coalition with the adoption of that excise law is today. Even then, there was great stupidity and warning that energy, which is so crucial to the economy, should not be raised, not least for the household. I believe that at the time, as a voting machine, you were too careful to fall for this fora, which the Government then gave to Parliament, that energy has also turned into a package of excise duties. We all agree to raise excise duties on alcohol, to rise on tobacco. In fact, this matter can only contribute to less mortality due to one or the other. But then there was a little bit of money in one of these packages about energy, and that was basically some kind of planted thing that you guys were into in the coalition. I'm sorry about that. And I am sure that what my colleague Presecnik mentioned earlier will check that if there was an accidental vote, it was not wrong, in the coalition you confirmed this because you were under-educated. But now it's another scam again. Dear Government, I hope that our consumers, households will now have tears in their eyes over your goodness, how kind you are now, when you are lowering this excise duty. It's also the first thing you take from his pocket 100 euros, it's some sort of a parable, and then you give him 50 euros back, and you tell yourself what kind of benefactor you are to give something back to him. Look, it's not true. And the economy would now be very rightly needed to return to such a level of excise duty as before or to comply with this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. No economic crisis has been resolved in a way that only tightens the belt to take away the one who is still breathing. In fact, it is necessary to give the economy the opportunity to recover, and then everyone, without any major problems, will also be able to pay higher taxes, higher contributions and, finally, excise duties, if necessary. So at least put your support here in the coalition for this amendment, because I think it's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all again! Well, I would be more pleased if the amendment that we proposed on the working body of the Slovenian Democratic Party as well as the identical one in the Slovenian People's Party was adopted, but since this did not happen, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which means at least a temporary suspension of the increase in excise duties in 2013, because with this economy we would add a little oxygen to enable it to cover its breath. Perhaps, however, during this period, it would prove that this increase in excise duties would not be necessary at all, as the government has now seen in this brief period of three months that the situation has changed. The increase in excise duty was not needed at this level and during this proposed period, when this increase in excise duty would be suspended, it may not be necessary at all, but if so, with the proposed date of 1 January 2013, excise duty would be raised. As I say, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party we have supported this reduction in excise duties, and we have been alerting this all along since this story began. Of course, I also have to say that when we were defending our affairs, I said to myself, well, most probably the government has some information to insist on, because I can't imagine that we could make the most of the smart moves at that time. But whoever's working is wrong, and I have to take it, too, but this mistake was, in my opinion, too expensive. And we also welcome the wisdom of the government to take a step back at this time, to settle this matter as it should, and also the wisdom of the coalition Members who will support it, of course, in addition to the opposition Members. But I must say – although this is not the topic of today's debate, but we can draw parallels somewhere – at the last session, I warned that we should all be wise together, that the wise Members should be wise, that the Government, even when changing holidays in primary school, should be more alert. I think now is the time to learn from this and try to listen to those who work with it, and I am sure that we are all so wise that we will take this matter into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I can still see the hands for the application. Please, who wants to discuss applying? Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The amendment to the updated proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise made by the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by us. We'll support him for one reason or another. Mr Potočnik pointed out, in explanation of his delegation's position, an important element, that excise revenue would be lower than planned and that this would generate 0.3% of the GDP deficit, which means that in any case something in this area will have to be done, probably given that we are talking about budgets. Now, if, then, it is good to consider whether we follow the amendments proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, I do not know whether this provision would increase further and by how much. I don't think it's too much, and then this deficit will be solved, and in any case it'll be one big problem. Either we will adopt the law as it is, or if we add a position along with it, which is harmonised, as we can see from the explanation, with the views of the President of the Government on the interpretation of the 2011 and 2012 budget memorandum, so that, last but not least, coordination, at least then, is uniform, not that we may have to discuss again and again how to resolve this deficit. We support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I first say that I support this amendment, and I think that this amendment to the law that we are considering today is another known innovation of this government. Then I'll explain how I can imagine. I am not exactly pleased that the Government is now correcting its mistake – and very quickly after the adoption of the previous change – and that we are now all or the Government that has proposed such a change, but now the greatest hero. The previous change was an attempt to deceive and wrap into a cellophane, a common network when we mix energy with alcohol and tobacco. At that time, it also spoke with media support, how if tobacco and alcohol were to be stimulated, it was either way good things, which were harmful to alcohol and tobacco. But no one was talking about that trick about energy being in the back here, and energy being irritable, that's what I think is bad and unfair. I think it's a kind of trickery. On the other hand, it must be said that nothing, including the social sector, is, if there is no good economy, a healthy economy. And this proposal, which is now before us, is also an amendment, which further suggests that the economy in this area, as far as the price of energy is concerned, needs to be unloaded, means the right path and therefore I believe that this amendment is a good one. In addition, I believe that the Government, despite slightly correcting this error – still not enough – and therefore I support this amendment, because it helps the economy a little bit, that it may be a little easier to work in these difficult times in the area of prices, in the energy price segment. I am afraid that the price of energy for the economy will show the same effect as the price of gasoline when the country has enormously increased excise duties. And now it's happened that foreign trucks pour in front of our country, transport Slovenia in transit, release the CO2 that we have to pay for, and the government didn't anticipate the euro for next year's purchase of coupons. Instead of having lower excise duty on oil derivatives and, as used to be, foreign drivers would buy oil derivatives in our country, the country would have a greater inflow to the treasury, but CO2 emissions are anyway. But now we have the opposite. This may be different, because there is a slightly different issue here, the purchase of electricity is slightly different, and the market is also opening up here. But the government is coming back with a new law to monopolize it. So the whole thing is connected. And I'm afraid that what is today a great address in one of the Slovenian journals, what the Slovenians have done with their country, we've done with it. I am afraid that this is one of those laws that are in this context of the thinking of the person who has said it. That is why I support this amendment because I believe it is going in the right direction and corrects the error made by the Government when it insisted on this law. However, the adoption of that amendment means that the majority supported it. Of course, I didn't, and the opposition didn't support her. This could mean two things: whether you were Members who voted for those enormous excise duties at the time, you were blindly trusting the Government, or you didn't have all the data, and I also allow it. But if there's anything good about it, it's, I mean, at least now you've seen that the government brought you around. I support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that again. I would only respond a little to my colleague Saiovic, because he was probably an eyewitness to my performance earlier, an obvious reflection of the fascination with mistakes. I didn't gloat about mistakes. I welcome this change of law, and I also welcome the system, that if we make any mistakes, even in marriage, or if anyone makes any mistakes when he finds out that the matter is not going well, he will correct it. I've been at this all these years since I've been dealing with these things. All I was talking about was that all or most of the members of the group were saying that we were all opposed to the changes in the law at the time. That's all I was talking about. Because if we were all opposed, of course this law would not be adopted. I understand, but in the coalition it takes some kind of agreement, it takes some discipline and it votes "yes", but, for God's sake, not then three months to say that we were all opposed then. I, too, can oppose inside, but I vote in favour, or vice versa. Of course, let's face it, it was a mistake back then. We welcome the fact that we have all identified a mistake together, including the Government, and we will support these changes, just as I have already explained twice why we also support the amendment we tabled. Now I have one more question, because I think the Secretary of State is going to take the floor, at least by gestures I've noticed. So at the time, it was said that there would be more revenue, for about 26.5 million euros. Now this excise duty is being reduced from what is now 3.05, and we are speaking in explanation that there will be a reduction of about 6.6 million euros in 2010. So, accounting – but I stress, I don't have all the data – this math is not going together. The Secretary of State must have more specific information. I'd also like to ask for some kind of explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Matei Vraničar asked for the floor. Mr. Saiovic, I've seen you, but Mrs. Vraničar's already asked me to get a word after this round. Ms Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the proposed amendment, allow me some clarifications or warnings. The proposed amendment suspends the application of Article 6, paragraph 2, of the law. However, the applicant did not take into account that the second paragraph of Article 6 of the Act relating to the amendment to Article 54, paragraph 3, is substantively linked to the fourth paragraph of that Article, which deletes the fourteenth paragraph. In the basic proposal for a law, the substance of the 14th paragraph was transferred to Article 54, paragraph 3, which is why we estimate that such an amendment would lead to a substantive non-compliance in the law and therefore we cannot support it. The additional reason that leads us to the conclusion that we should suggest to the National Assembly that this amendment is not supported is of a financial nature. If this amendment were to be supported, the revenues of the State budget in 2011 would be even lower by around EUR 30 to 35 million. With regard to the question raised by Mr President. The law, which was discussed in the National Assembly in July and also in this bill, distinguishes between the consequences of the proposal for a law in 2010 and the consequences in 2011. The bill, which was adopted in July this year, took into account the financial implications of the legal amounts set out in the bill, i.e. that electricity spending would increase to €6 per MWh from 1 August 2010 and €12 per MWh from 1 November 2010 to €12 per MWh. The financial implications, as assessed in this bill, answer the question of how much less the revenue of the state budget would be due to the fact that we are not raising excise duties to EUR 12 but are leaving them at the level of EUR 3 and 5 cents per MWh. As a result, it is estimated that revenue in the state budget will be lower by good €6.6 million this year. It is taken into account that only one excise duty bill would be submitted in 2010 for the month of November and therefore the effects in 2010 due to the proposed amendment of the law are relatively low, that is, the December excise duty calculation is being invested at the end of January and will have implications for the 2011 budget. As it is said, the assessment of the financial implications of this bill is focused on clarifications as to how much revenue would be reduced in relation to the statutory amounts if the new amounts of excise duty were to be imposed. And, as it is said, this year, together for natural gas and electricity, we estimate around 8 million lower revenues, while in 2011 these revenues will be reduced by about 103 million euros. Allow me a brief explanation in relation to the applicable excise duty on 1 August 2010. It is true that the law provided for a excise duty on electricity as from 1 August 2010 to amount to EUR 6 and 5 cents per MWh. However, the Government took advantage of the mandate provided for in Article 66 of the Law on excise duty and adopted a regulation before 1 August 2010 which reduced excise duty by 50 % or 3 euros and 5 cents for MWh. In such a way that the claim in the material to maintain the excise duty level at the level of the excise duty in force on 1 August 2010 is correct by this bill. I also cannot agree with the assessment that we are raising excise duties by means of the proposed law, since we are maintaining the level of excise duty at the level already in force today, as a result of which we are assessing that the proposed measure or proposed law is not contrary to the Government's assessment of non-tax evasion in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I would like to respond first to my esteemed colleague, Mr President. In my speech, I did not name anyone by name, but at the very least I had him in mind, for Mr Preseknik is certainly one of the most correct Members who enjoys exceptional trust and respect in my eyes. However, I wanted to point out, of course, that it is right that those who are in the coalition and we have made this decision, that we sometimes hear them at our expense, that we have managed this power and energy in accordance with the explanation given by the Secretary of State, that we will, of course, correct the error, thereby facilitating the life and business of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, the economy and, of course, many Slovenian households. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, the government at this point deserves all the criticism. I myself said on the committee that it would be best to hide the representatives of the finance minister in an empty mine in San Jose, 700 meters underground, during that meeting and also these meetings. Because what you're doing is irresponsible. This is irresponsible to the Slovenian economy. We have talked a lot about this issue of excise duty on the Committee on Finance, where we have warned you, "see, for 100 million we will burden the Slovenian economy". That's when, Madam Secretary of State, you said, "No, that's not true! We will not burden the economy." With concrete examples we then warned you, in the case of VIPAP Krško, that the law we adopted in August would burden this company for an additional EUR 2 million, at the expense of electricity excise duty. Do you imagine what this means for one company? 2 million Euros of extra cost just like that, from heaven. How can an economic company replace such a burden? What were you thinking when you introduced this excise? Has anyone thought about the consequences this will have for the Slovenian economy? Here we listen to the words of the President of the Government, repeatedly that the Slovenian economy and people in this country will not be burdened with new taxes, with higher taxes. What is it? We say one thing, we do another! I apologize, but you have rightly received criticism here, because this is simply not how it is done to raise the excise duty up in August, despite the opposition's warnings, then in time we find that the opposition was obviously right, and now let us find some opportunity and some excuses to go back in some way. Unresponsible!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u64	As we monitor the analysis of collected excise duties in the Republic of Slovenia under the mandate of this government, we can find that excise duties have practically increased to everything, but especially to energy consumers. This has left the population and the economy unselective. This is a measure that follows some of the objectives of increasing revenue into the budget and strikes all consumers of the item concerned, which is subject to excise duty. In the case of this policy, government spending on electricity was in particular raised. Today, excise duties are three times higher in spite of this law than when this government came into existence. Let's not talk about excise duties on propulsion fuels. You have also selectively burdened the socially weak visas of others. That is why I think that playing with excise duties, as the Government has afforded it, is outrageous, rude and reflects the chaotic situation in tax policy planning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u65	Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the law on value added tax. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u66	Mr President! Dear Members and Members! In short, on the main solutions of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The main objective of the proposal is to transpose into the Slovenian legal order a number of recent VAT directives. First of all, it is a directive amending the value added tax directive with regard to the provision of services. These are changes relating to the location of the provision of services for cultural, artistic, sports, scientific, entertainment or similar events. In the case of admissions to these events, the taxable persons will be counted as the place where these services will actually take place, following the principle of taxation at the point of consumption. In addition, the draft law transposes into the law amendments to the VAT Directive on the prevention of tax evasion related to imports, which sets out a package of minimum conditions under which the exemption applies to imports of goods followed by delivery to another Member State. Amendments to the Directive relating to equal tax treatment of natural gas, electricity, heating and cooling are also included. The individual errors included in the original Directive are addressed. In addition, the immediate application of the right to deduct VAT in the purchase of real estate or other real estate expenditure is envisaged for the part used for business purposes where the property is intended for both business and non-business use. We are further introducing an additional measure to prevent fraud in greenhouse gas emissions trading. A temporary introduction of a reverse tax mechanism is envisaged, allowing the VAT obligation to be transferred to the person to whom greenhouse gas emission rights are transferred. In view of the end of the transitional period during which 8,5 % of the VAT rate was allowed in Slovenia from residential buildings for the market, the proposal abolishes the lower rate of taxation from those new buildings with effect from 1 January. The lower rate of taxation will continue to be applied to dwellings or dwellings which meet the criteria for treatment as housing facilities which are deemed to be part of social policy for VAT purposes. According to current data, this means that a lower VAT rate is maintained by around 95% of residential properties. The bill also includes exemption from the payment of VAT from universal postal services and from the delivery of stamps at nominal value used in Slovenia as payment for those postal services. Finally, the proposal for a law also introduces an amendment to the VAT return directive to taxable persons established in another Member State, extending the VAT refund deadline for 2009 only. This period shall be extended until 31 March 2011, due to the difficulties of some other Member States by establishing the necessary electronic data exchange system. The proposal for a law provides that the proposed amendments will be implemented as from 1 January 2011. Your Honor! Taking into account these essential solutions to the law, I suggest that you support the proposal for a law both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Bogdan Čepić, to explain the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 20th meeting, on 7. Ten. 2010 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 73rd meeting, on 10. 9. 2010 decided that the proposal should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical aspects and forwarded comments to Articles 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, 27, 29 and 38 of the draft law. In the course of the course of business, the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS members shall take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service by amendments to Articles 1, 2, 6, 18, 19, 27, 29, 37 and 38 of the draft law. Representatives of the finance ministry's representatives and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the Committee's meetings. In the context of further explanations of the proposal, the main emphasis of the proposed text, which follows from the explanation of the proposal, is the transposition of a series of directives, namely 2008/8/EC, 2009/69/EC, 2009/62/EU, 2010/23/EU and so on, at the same time eliminates the individual uncertainties and inconsistencies of the law. According to the representative, the VAT regime is always up to date and is subject to many amendments. The paper also introduces the inclusion of new sectoral directives, which, in terms of financial implications, do not represent major changes, but it is a matter of clarifying the arrangements in certain areas. For example, more detailed arrangements for the supply of gas through distribution systems have been put in place, greater transparency has been introduced by establishing the place of provision of services related to admissions to events, the exemption of VAT on joint ventures, the exemption of VAT on the provision of universal postal services and, in particular, the abolition of the lower VAT rate on residential facilities subject to social policy. Finally, support was expressed for the amendment of coalition groups, which helps to clarify the text itself. In the course of the presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stressed the need for an official consolidated text and further pointed out, in terms of clarity and certainty, the impossibility of Article 2 or the uncertainties that remain in Articles 4 and 12 of the proposal. In the context of the hearing, the Committee adopted amendments to SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS’s parliamentary groups on 1, 2, 6, 18, 19, 27, 29, 37, and Article 38 of the legislative proposal. In accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee further voted on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted them in full. In view of the amendments adopted and pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all amendments, is also prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u70	Respected and respected! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Extra Value Tax Act. Before presenting only the position on this law, I think it is appropriate to reflect somewhat on some of the lively debates in the European area on ideas for raising value added tax. We social democrats are very skeptical about these ideas because raising value tax would directly affect people and could have an impact on the significant reduction in consumption as an important part of the drive for economic growth. We are significantly more open, for example, to reflect on some new and specific taxes, such as the financial transaction tax, which may influence and play an important, preventive role in preventing speculation, thus ensuring the stability of the financial system and the re-prevention of financial fractures. At the same time, it may be a valuable new source for financing the tasks of our community. Today, we have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, which essentially does not derogate from the principles of the current value added tax calculation, but, as has already been said, in fact specifies some of the provisions that also lay down European directives in the Slovenian legal order. At the place of service provided, the principle of taxation at the place of destination shall also be taken into account for the admissions to be taxed where the event is actually taking place. Under the proposed conditions for the exemption of imports of goods, where import is followed by the exempt supply of goods within the Union, uniform implementation and exemptions shall be provided in the territory of the EU. Changes in gas supply by distribution systems in relation to the location of the service provided are included. This proposal also changes the place of provision of services relating to cultural, artistic, sports, scientific, educational and similar events, while distinguishing between admissions and other services. Particularly important is the part of the law which provides for a new regime at the end of the transitional period following Slovenia's entry into the EU with regard to lower value added tax rates in housing facilities, which are not supplied under social policy. We would like to stress in particular that for a large majority, it is estimated that around 95% of all properties will be home to up to 120 square metres in residential houses or 250 square metres in one-house houses, which are considered to be an integral part of social policy and will be subject to the 8.5% principle after that, i.e. a reduction in the value added tax rate. Nor is this measure expected to have significant financial effects, as we say that that part of the housing and real estate market, which exceeds those values, is in fact in Slovenia in a distinct minority. Article 20 of the proposal also includes a specific provision concerning the exercise of the right to deduct VAT in the purchase of real estate or other expenditure relating to real estate. We think that the proposed law follows European directives in an appropriate manner, while at the same time allowing for a more precise definition of the value added tax system in these specific details, so we will support this block of law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u72	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the solutions proposed under the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. We are not excited about this novel, but we have quite a few serious concerns. I will not talk about the transposition of those directives that introduce into our legal order the positive practices of other countries as well as our countries and are worthy of our support. I'm going to stop mainly at flat taxes. Let me draw attention to the fact that in the last term the Government has negotiated an extension of the period when all apartments were taxed at a lower tax rate and I am asked why the Government has not continued this practice in the current mandate and has also negotiated after the taxation of all apartments and houses at a lower tax rate. What was the higher tax rate introduced and why increase taxes in the country where we are facing the crisis? True, this is true of a minority of apartments, larger apartments, and houses, but why raise taxes here too. Is it not possible that this is all about intentional non-contractualisation or the extension of lower-level taxation, or in fact the government has not followed fiscal objectives here, czech, at least a little more will flow into the budget than so far into the account of higher taxation of larger dwellings. So if we were to exercise in our hands, we would follow current practices and policies and apply a lower tax rate before European institutions even later. Indeed, it is an important segment that affects the quality of living in the country and also affects economic movements. After that, these larger apartments will be irritated because they will be taxed by more than 10%, this will be known at price, and this will probably also be known for inherited investments in such an apartment, as they will eventually fall because no one, even as a result of this measure, will be able to use or sell them more difficult. So that's the key reason why we have certain reservations about this law, which has quite a few positive solutions. The Group of Members will not support these solutions, nor will it oppose them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u74	Your Honor! The value added tax is a good decade in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, taxes on consumption, sales taxes and also taxes on the marketing of products and services are taxes on transactions between economic operators and final consumers. In Europe, the value added tax was introduced by France as the first in 1954, and soon thereafter the plasma of requirements for uniting or harmonising indirect taxes was eliminated, first in terms of the same structure, and soon thereafter the requirements for uniting tax rates were followed. But since the Treaty of Rome in 1957, when countries have shown their readiness to harmonise this tax area, and to date things have moved very slowly. Interests and politics. For example, the Directive on corporate taxation has been in the process for more than 20 years. We are also dealing with a package of directives and adaptations this time. All the solutions made by the proposal of the law are not necessarily relevant to mentioning, which my predecessors have already done, and that is enough for the proposer – the Government, the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as well as the views of the public concerned, whose comments have been taken into account in most cases. And yet – about two things. First time. Increase in the value added tax rate from 8,5 % to 20% of housing facilities which are not part of social policy. Although the government does not expect significant financial effects, it estimates that there is only a small proportion of such apartments in Slovenia. The connection between the price rise of these facilities and higher rents cannot be overlooked. It is true that the definition of a housing facility, which is part of the country's social policy, is in the hands of national states and not the rule of law of the European Union. However, the measure adopted must not affect the further deterioration of the social situation of those who are resolving their housing status. Another time. The extremely frequent amendment of tax legislation is not recommended if it is not necessary and there is a relatively sound and reliable measurement of the consequences caused by the legislator, it is reflected in the costs associated with the changes to the rules on taxes collected. According to an international assessment, only the costs charged by taxpayers to be able to pay taxes correctly – I am thinking mainly of maintaining information systems, accounting services, consultants, lawyers, storage of documentation, education – 2 to 5 times higher than the costs of a tax administration representing less than 1% of taxes and contributions collected in Slovenia. These are the data that gives thought to the importance when we decide on this. The Zares Group will, however, support the complementary proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the DeSUS position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The main reason for preparing the text of this proposed amendment to the basic value added tax law is the transposition of several directives of the European Union. The tax system of the Member States of the European Union, however, falls within the national regime of each country, which also applies to the system of value added tax. In view of the diversity of the VAT system, the European Community is drawing up the common objectives of this policy, which are reflected in the Directives adopted. It is therefore only a matter of drawing up common objectives that individual countries also pursue by harmonising national rules. The path and procedure to achieve these objectives is left to the discretion of each Member State individually. In line with current practice, the Government has drawn up a new Law on VAT which aims to transpose or harmonise as many as five Directives of the European Union which relate to different areas. The first area is the exemption for the supply of natural gas and electricity. Secondly, it is more transparent to regulate tax exemptions for institutions established within the European Union. The third is for a shorter extension of the deadlines for submitting applications for VAT refund to taxable persons not established in the Member States. And the fourth is the rate of VAT on residential buildings for the market. This latter definition and the latter content in the DeSUS Group caused the most controversy, dilemma and debate. Although the last substantive amendment does not relate to the abolition of a lower VAT rate for residential buildings belonging outside residential buildings which are subject to the social policy of the State. First of all, we asked Members of the DeSUS what will be the impact of the introduction of a general rate on the real estate market itself. The answer is that such a decision will not affect the direction of further deterioration of the social situation of those who solve the housing problem. Therefore, the DeSUS Group is acceptable because those housing facilities that are part of social policy, such as dwellings for young families, dwellings that represent a more lasting solution to the housing problem, will continue to be taxed at a lower rate if they do not exceed the square space limit of 120 square metres in a multi-housing house or in an individual house of 250 square metres of usable area. In short, the solutions proposed go in the direction of appropriateness and acceptability. Nor do they deviate from the basic principles of VAT accounting, nor do they represent higher burdens for citizens and citizens. And that is the reason why we will support the novel in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party. We all know that value added tax is a living mechanism that is constantly changing. We all know that we have decided ourselves to become members of the European Union and that there are certain areas which are binding on the State of the Republic of Slovenia because of our approach, and we are obliged to respect certain directives. Some of these Directives are included in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act, which would stop very briefly on behalf of the Slovenian National Party in that part of the amendment to the value added tax for residential buildings belonging outside residential buildings which are subject to social policy. It is clear to all of us that, thank God, the State, the Republic of Slovenia, decided and established a transitional period for this content during the negotiations for accession to the European Union. Well, this transitional period is due to expire on 1 January next year and is no longer to be extended. In this case, in the Slovenian National Party, I think that the competent Ministry of European Affairs, Mr Mitja Gaspari, would like to know whether this is possible or not, regardless of whether these standards for the concept of social housing are large enough. In fact, in the Slovenian National Party we see the possibility of not raising the value added tax from 8.5 to 20%, that this is in fact some stimulant to be possible in normal conditions, so that most or as many Slovenes as possible could and could easily reach their homes, to normal conditions of residence. However, if this change is to take place now, they are placed in an unequal position. In fact, the point is to live and be, but no, now you all have to have a smaller apartment than 120 square meters, if not, but you will be taxed with 20%. If we had enough of these units, yes, because this residential market is available to us — you know what it is — sometimes all the smaller apartments are rented mostly and only large apartments remain available. And now someone who wants an apartment is forced to buy what's on the market. On the market, the apartment is more than 120 square metres. Now what? If he buys it, he's going to get 20 percent for the penalty now because he doesn't get a smaller one. These are all elements to be taken into account in such laws, because laws are supposed to be written for people and people are supposed to have their rights and obligations under these laws. This is the point where, of course, like others in the Slovenian National Party, we join scepticism or doubt or need to do so, but perhaps there is only a possibility that we may continue to impose a transitional period for a period of time or even an area that could remain within the jurisdiction of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which I am personally confident of, but will not argue until I can also be convinced in the field of European law, because the decision should be a decision of each country individually, given the situation at home. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Additional Value Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. All together, welcome, especially to the Secretary of State! The Liberal Democracy Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, as most of the amendments to the implementation of the European Directives are to be laid down in the Slovenian acquis. The law thus introduces changes related to the definition of the place of supply of services, the system of value added tax on import-related tax evasion, and changes relating to the optional and temporary application of the reverse tax mechanism, and changes in the rate of value added for residential works intended for the market. However, the largest and most important innovations brought by changes and additions to the law relate to the expiry of the transitional period for the recognition of a lower VAT rate for dwellings which are not part of the country's social policy. Apartments for which the so-called lower VAT rate will not be recognised, that is, the current 8,5 % represent dwellings whose surface area does not exceed 120 square metres and a house where the usable area does not exceed 250 square metres. This in practice means that there will be no greater burden for those living in so-called normal housing facilities. Another important major change, however, has been the application of universal postal services being exempt from VAT since we are following European legislation, and it obliges us to do so by 1 January 2011. In addition to these two major changes, the amendments to the law also relate to changes in gas and electricity supply since the specific system concerning the place of supply of gas and electricity is also applicable to imports and the supply of natural gas by pipelines which are not in practice part of the distribution system. Furthermore, the law also provides for exemption from VAT for joint undertakings treated as an international organisation. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we estimate that additions and amendments to the proposed Value Added Tax Act are appropriate and, of course, we also declare support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY — PROPOSAL OF A PROHIBITION OF PROHIBITION OF PRODUCTION AND USE OF CERTAIN SHOOTING. The draft law was tabled by a group of 15 Members and Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic. The proposal for a law shall be held at the 16th session of 30th. 9. 2010 and following on 16th session, 7th session Ten. 2010 dealt with by the Defence parental committee. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. The Committee informed the President of the National Assembly, who had put the draft law on the basis of a meeting of the assembly in order to conclude that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law had been completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Act prohibiting the sale and use of cluster munitions at 15. Seven. 2010 was introduced into the procedure by a group of coalition members with first-signed Anton Anderlic, covering the same content as the ratified Convention on Cluster Munitions. The Convention has entered into force 1. 8. 2010, which is 15 days after the law was passed, and our law was adopted exactly 1 year earlier. In accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, ratified international treaties are directly applicable, so that they become part of the internal legal order. The only substantive difference between a very detailed convention in cluster munitions and a law prohibiting the production and sale of cluster munitions is that this law provides for a shorter two-year period for the destruction of ammunition than a convention which provides for an 8-year period. Even in our parliamentary group, of course, we agree with the early destruction of cluster munitions, but of course they have also examined the Government's obligations and arguments regarding the fulfilment of the international treaty. The government has declared the law at issue unnecessary. However, Minister Jelusic has repeatedly pointed out in her explanation to the Defence Committee that the Government has already issued an international call for the destruction of cluster munitions before the Convention enters into force. It has ensured that the destruction contract is immediately prior to signature and in the manner provided for by the Convention on Cluster Munitions. In view of this context and the circumstances of the mitigation of the law, which was submitted by the coalition members with the first-signed Anton Anderlić just before the Convention was in force, we have a number of questions in the SDS Group. First time. Were the motives for marriage really merely humanitarian or were they behind narrow, day - to - day motives by highlighting noble purposes? Another time. Why do government Members not trust their own government to respect international treaties and destroy tape? Third time. Or do government Members have information that in Slovenia, in addition to the thousands of 80 officially identified pieces owned by the Ministry of Defence and purchased by then Minister Jelko Kacin, along with the 155 millimetres of hawbice in 1998. It is desert hoodies who once wanted the death of a Slovenian soldier and are now preserved. Mr Anderlič pointed out in the first below of the Committee on Defence that the law refers to all ammunition that could and could be found in the territory of Slovenia, and the question is therefore raised whether LDS Member Anton Anderlič has the information that Mr Kacin, the then Minister of LDS, acquired more cluster munitions than officially recorded at the Ministry of Defence. Why was there a need for special care in the specific law on potential ammunition, and when the Convention provides in Article 4 very detail how all stocks or ammunition that would ever occur in the territory of the States Parties should be declared and destroyed? The Convention also provides for very close monitoring of the implementation of the Convention. In the SDS Group, we have therefore come under a dilemma and have already stressed on the Defence Committee that the government majority will have to decide for themselves whether to trust the Government's explicit assurances that the binding international convention is being implemented and that ammunition from 1998 is just before destruction or whether the Government's doubts about the intentions of its own government are justified. This would, however, put Slovenia in an awkward international position with regard to the fulfilment of ratified international treaties, which are implemented directly. In doing so, we would like to point out in the Group that such doubts are partly justified on the basis of past practices and the double criteria of the government majority and the majority of government Members in interpreting certain international conventions and resolutions of the European Parliament. A fresh example is the European Parliament's Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which was rejected by the majority here in the National Assembly, and the European Parliament's LDS Mojca Drčar Murko, who voted in favour of it, called it a deadlock. Since we are legalists in the Group of Members, we do not believe that the law tabled by the Members of the Government is necessary, so we do not need an acceptable epilogue, which took place when the Defence Committee voted, when most of the members of the Committee did not support the last articles of the bill. Thus, the law is practically removed from the procedure. In the SDS Group, we will closely monitor the process of destroying cluster munitions and will also pay attention to all the dilemmas and questions raised when this law is introduced, as we are deeply aware that cluster weapons and ammunition are one of the most dangerous and infamous weapons. Therefore, there was no valid reason for Slovenia to purchase such weapons in 1998. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u84	Dear President, Honourable Mr Richtaj, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, the Defence Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has not adopted the text or articles of the draft law on the prohibition of the production, sale and use of cluster munitions, which we have submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by Members and Members with First-signed Member Anton Anderlic. The consideration of the law has thus ended, although we have proposed that Members take decisions in the event of decisions that the law will not be adopted, but that is not possible now, according to the Chairman of the Committee. The purpose of the law is to destroy all types of cluster munitions in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It is owned, as you know, by the Slovenian Army, in accordance with the Convention on Cluster Munitions and the prohibition of all traffic in this ammunition in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law sets a two-year deadline for the destruction of all stockpiles of cluster munitions in the Republic of Slovenia. According to known information, the Slovenian army is expected to possess a thousand 80 pieces of such ammunition. The law defines two-year prison sentences and high fines for illicit development, production, purchase, sale, transfer, import, export, use and possession of cluster munitions. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we are very disappointed that the consideration of the bill has already been concluded on the working body and that the other Members have not been given the opportunity to decide on the text or on the solutions proposed in plenary. Unfortunately, the practice of filtering and limiting decision-making on important issues in the National Assembly is repeated. And this is an important issue because it creates the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia to some of the key problems identified by the international conventions, in which we cannot prove that we are implementing these international conventions faster than they say when it comes to important issues such as the destruction of cluster munitions. The Minister of Defence, who presented the Government's position on the proposed law, felt that the proposed law was unnecessary because our country had already ratified the Convention on Cluster Munitions. By the Act of Ratification of 15. Seven. 2009 has become part of the Slovenian acquis and is applied directly in accordance with the Constitution as an international treaty. In addition, the Ministry is expected to begin the procedure for the destruction of ammunition. These are, of course, assurances that are certainly acceptable and correct, but it is politically incomprehensible that when a proposal comes from the coalition to speed up procedures on these issues, however, we are facing a blockade. In the Zares Group, we point out that Slovenia has a thousand and 80 pieces of such ammunition, and the aim of the applicants is to shorten the eight-year deadline for the destruction of such weapons, as the United Nations Convention already foresees. The deadline for destruction is thus to be reduced to two years from the entry into force of the law. And that we do not believe that the ministry, which according to the Minister's words, is about to begin the procedures for the destruction of ammunition, is about to take a final decision on the selection of executioners for the destruction of cluster munitions, will destroy these weapons within less than two years. This raises the question of these operators. We fear the American practice that we have been adopting uncritically in recent times, perhaps even privatising this exercise. Already, as we know, we have contracts with private companies to protect certain military facilities. If this story continues in the destruction of cluster munitions, I wonder why we spend so much money on our own army, what we send an army abroad without being used professionally to destroy it, and what is the rapid destruction of such dangerous weapons. In the Group of Members, we find the law important in spite of the differing opinion of the competent minister, because it goes beyond the Convention and foresees destruction for cluster munitions as well. So, of course, we support this law at the symbolic and political level.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group, the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian proverb says it is better twice than never, but this law, which is before us, is unnecessary because the destruction of cassette material is governed by international rules that also apply to Slovenia. Slovenia has already ratified the Convention on Cluster Munitions adopted by the United Nations and is obliged to apply it directly. We believe, however, that it was the proposaler's desire to accelerate the destruction of this ammunition. Members of the Slovenian People's Party of course support the destruction of cluster munitions and the prohibition of the development, production, purchase, sale, import and export of cluster munitions. We also agree that our ministry will destroy existing stocks as soon as possible. So it is the responsibility of the competent minister and her department to follow the convention. We believe that the Minister and the Government will act responsibly and follow international guidelines. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia objects to that law, the Legal and Legislative Service has commented, the Defence Committee has not supported it and considers that the law is unnecessary in view of the international legal arrangements for the prohibition of cluster munitions. However, I am sure that this initiative has further encouraged those responsible in this country to speed up the resolution of this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u87	Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u88	Your Honor! There are things that go beyond the daily political interests and the daily political manipulation, and above all, the instigation and some assessments that do not come under discussion, such as the discussion under this law. It is quite amazing that in the National Assembly, which has a tradition – and this is very successful – it is possible to take on certain humanitarian, humanitarian and other solutions, which took the initiative of both the Belgian and Austrian Presidents of Parliament in 2007 to do more together. And we did. We have made a declaration and committed ourselves to following these processes. Later, at a process that began in Oslo – the conference was held early in 2007 – we committed ourselves. The government of the week, Mr Jerovšek, has supported efforts. Six times you mentioned me, Mr Jerovšek, now I will answer your accusations. You've used my name six times and you've slandered me. It is simply that the former government supported the Oslo process and supported the commitment to adopt legally binding legislation in the Republic of Slovenia in 2008 by which we will destroy this cluster munitions. Nothing happened. Yes, the previous government then also gave Parliament an initiative to ratify the Convention, which was adopted in spring 2008 and 30 May 2008 in Dublin. For a year this National Assembly needed her to be 15. Seven. 2009 ratified on many of the initiatives that have taken place. Of course, what was the enthusiasm of those who believe that Slovenia can be a country without cluster munitions and that it is the ammunition that is most dangerous for civilians and has wide humanitarian consequences when it comes to civil action. Since last year we witnessed the theft of weapons from the warehouse of Mr Bogataj and the Ministry of Defence, that it was not known how many of these weapons were in storage in this area, we then asked the Defence Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee about the implementation of the Convention on this ammunition. General Steiner, Chief of Staff, has arrogantly rejected all initiatives to approach the destruction of this ammunition. She also said no to the minister that we have eight more years. And because there was no listening, the law was also introduced by Tonet Anderlič as a private person who has an interest in destroying existing cassette ammunition in Slovenia, but because Slovenia is classified and must be classified as one of the countries that have the greatest interest in doing so. Only after we have received an indisputable answer, there is all the documentation, I will not discuss it here, but I will have to present this publicly once again when we have received an indisputable answer that this government has no purpose whatsoever, and here is no problem of the Government: position : opposition, is the question what the Republic of Slovenia wants to do in this area. When we got an answer that there was no intention of destroying it, we went to law school. The best opportunity was the first anniversary of the approval of the Convention in the National Assembly. I thank the President of the Government, who has only understood after receiving a letter from our side, that we are concerned about why he does not approach the destruction of cluster munitions, and has assured him that he will pledge his word. Only then, in the summers, did the mechanisms start. Otherwise, believe me, Vlada, the Yangtze government, any other, if there are no concrete commitments, don't do what needs to be done. There were also a number of manipulations, including by the leadership of the National Assembly, in this effort to adopt this law. I'm glad if it's true that at least we did something that moved. Trust is a nice thing, but trust me, control and commitment are different. I believe that those two Members, who have prevented them from having a debate in this National Assembly, are already regretting it. I'm warning you of this danger of cluster munitions. Let them think for themselves whether it's right or wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u90	Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Social Democrats on the Defence Committee have not confirmed the articles of the draft law on the prohibition of the production, sale and use of cluster munitions submitted for consideration by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic, and the signatures to this bill have also been given by the Members of the Group of Social Democrats, not because the law might be bad, because the purpose of the law has been very clearly set out. At the time of adoption of the Convention on Cluster Munitions, adopted under the UN on 30 May 2008 and ratified in this Parliament in July 2009 [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u91	Please, let the Chapel speak!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u92	The Convention itself entered into force 1. 8. Slovenia has also been an active participant in the formation and adoption of this Convention within the framework of the United Nations. [[...]] The bill sought to accelerate the destruction of cluster munitions in the territory of Slovenia by law and to prevent, without a doubt, any trade or development of any cluster munitions in Slovenia. The purpose was extremely noble and completely in the spirit of the Convention and it is not possible to oppose the proposal of the law. On the Defence Committee, however, we have received clear assurances from the Ministry of Defence that intensive work is being done in the destruction of caste ammunition, as it is planned to destroy cassette munitions in Slovenia at the beginning of 2011 and not only within two years, as proposed by law, or within eight years, as provided for by the Convention. In accordance with the Convention, which, when ratified in the national Parliament, also has legal effect, development, production, purchase, sale, use or possession of cluster munitions is not allowed and therefore this is actually a crime. With clear and unequivocal assurances and procedures for the destruction of cluster munitions carried out by the Ministry of Defence, we have followed the Government's view that such a law is not necessary, since we have this area in Slovenia properly regulated and we are among the first countries parties to the convention, which will also effectively destroy cluster munitions, regardless of the costs that arise and are not small. However, if the signatories and proponents of the law on the prohibition of the production and use of cluster munitions have also accelerated procedures for the destruction of cluster munitions in Slovenia before the resolution, the human purpose of the resolution has also been achieved and there is no problem that we have not voted in favour of the law on the committee and have thus concluded the debate on this law, the aim of the destruction of cluster munitions has been achieved, and this has been a basic objective.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on retirement and disability insurance. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor first to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u94	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance responds to one of the biggest challenges facing modern societies, that is to the ageing population, where the relationship between the active and the beneficiaries of pension payments is irrevocably turned towards the latter, i.e. pensioners. This raises a question before us: Is the pensioner still a cash register and until when is it sustainable? In fact, more than a quarter of the resources needed are already contributing to the pension fund and we cannot afford all statutory payments, such as pension coordination, from it. If we do nothing, there will be a need for between 200 million and 300 million additional resources each year, and public debt would already exceed 60% of gross domestic product in 2021 on this account alone. The second issue is the issue of falling initial pensions, which is embedded in the existing system. If the average pension is now at the level of a good 60% of the average wage, this percentage would be reduced to 50% and could be below 50, which would seriously jeopardise the social situation of an increasing number of pensioners. Therefore, we have agreed with the social partners that a modernised pension and disability insurance system must ensure the achievement of two fundamental objectives: the sustainability of the pension allowance and the cessation of the fall in pensions against salaries. The set of measures that we are proposing has been prepared in cooperation with the best experts in our country. We used the knowledge that exists in this area in the wider space. On this basis, I can ensure that the proposed law ensures the sustainability of the pension system for the next 15 to 20 years and that pensions will cease to fall or will be further increased by 2 to 18%, with lower income groups higher. Among the main measures are the following: raising the age for retirement to 65 years, uniform for both sexes, and raising the age for early retirement to 60 years. we propose a new way of coordinating pensions, 60% in terms of wage growth and 40% in terms of cost of living. A new method of determining the pension base is envisaged, namely the number of years taken into account to be extended from 18 to 34, the dose rate no longer changes and remains at 80 % and we also fix the balancing factor. This will ensure that wages do not fall or increase slightly. We introduce collection of contributions from all forms of work without delay and write-off options. We exclude social transfers from the pension register, namely those transfers for which contributions to the social security system have not been paid. The new pension system provides for a whole range of benefits or special solutions for specific groups. For workers who have started working early, we assume that women can retire at 41 years of age and men at 43 years of age, they do not have to wait until the age of 65. Workers working under difficult living conditions are provided for a professional pension and a partial pension. We provide special benefits for parents. For workers who continue to work under the conditions of early retirement, we give a 20% bonus to pay and we lower our contributions to employers who employ these workers. All those measures will be introduced gradually so that the transitional period will last for the next 15 years. We believe that the new proposal for pension insurance divides the burden evenly among all generations, although all the social partners do not agree. Therefore, we also expect a constructive debate during the adoption of this law and give the possibility for individual solutions to be further coordinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-worker! The Slovenian social model, based on intergenerational solidarity, is the foundation of the social state, which is indeed to be abandoned in the Group of Members – we do not intend to give up the new policy. The fact is that both Slovenian and other European social models are relatively expensive, but because of tradition and implemented redistributive social model we retain them. Why? Because of course we are convinced that our and other social states must make it possible and create a place where high social security for all generations will be ensured, in the case of this law for the older generation. The fact is that many negative trends affect the strength of the pension system itself. Today, pensions account for as much as 11% of the gross social product, and according to some calculations it will only increase, up to 18% of the share. Thus, which are these trends; the Slovenian older population or its share is increasing, the number of births is limited, despite the increase in the birth rate of these current problems. The life expectancy is increasing and, for a number of structural reasons, economic growth problems are reflected in the maintenance of the overall pension and overall social protection of the elderly. The current system or pension reform of 2000 can therefore no longer guarantee the sustainability of the system, but it cannot, above all, stop the fall in the level of pensions, which today puts many of the pensioners at the threshold of poverty. That is also why we want to introduce this change in some way more solidarity between all generations, as the proposal provides for the payment of contributions from each work done. Thus, young people who have survived so far, such as through contractual works, will have to be in solidarity with regular employees. Self-employed people in free professions who have shown too low income will have to be in-generation solidarity. And, of course, also now an active generation will have to add its share and work longer, as pension rights will also benefit longer than generations before it. Last December, when we presented public opinions on the modernisation of the pension system in the Republic of Slovenia together, we found that pension reform is one of the more complex structural changes we need. First of all, to pursue the objectives of a sustainable system and, above all, to ensure that the level of pensions is halted so that we can ensure a decent life for a person. Projections of ageing of the European population, where Slovenia is unfortunately the forerunners, are inexcusable. Last year's statistics show that before last year's 325 thousand 321 people were over 65. Ten years later, there were 420 thousand 317, and in 2060, there were 589 thousand 900. In the European Union, life expectancy is also rising; in 1960, those born can expect to experience 67 years if they are male or 73 years old if they are female. Data for children born in 2004 show that men can expect almost 76 and women can expect almost 82 years. In Slovenia, the average age of women at retirement in 2008 was 57 years and six months and the average age of men was 60 years and nine months. Therefore, the legislative proposal for pension reform introduces a requirement for a higher age at the time of retirement by the systematic introduction of so-called bonuses and maluses, which is intended to encourage employees to take as long as possible. The revised pension system will only be able to sustain this increase in pensioners financially until 2020. We are reminded of this by both domestic experts and the OECD. In the analysis of the labour market and social policies, we are told that rapid ageing of the population makes the current pension policy financially necessary and that further reforms are urgently needed. One of the leading economists and a great expert on European social models, Andre Sapir, points out the threat that follows the ageing population of a redistributive social model, which is the flow system we know in Slovenia, and says: "It is good that people live longer, but at the same time we have fewer children. And if we live longer, we want decent pensions, for no one wants poor parents and elderly people. We all want our parents to have adequate pensions and adequate health care. This is very good, but if we want it to be so in the future, we must take action." In the Really New Policy Group, we are convinced that none of us want poor older people, unregulated health care, the absence of organized care for the elderly at home, and a poorly functioning pension system. However, the data shows that we are faced with these problems, but also before the resistance of trade unions and other civil society. At present, the need to regulate financial instruments in reducing the poverty of old people through social transfers has been expressed, for the fifth year has been delayed by the adoption of legislation to regulate the care and care of older people at home, the need for health reform has been expressed and could be listed. The challenge of an ageing society in terms of cost becomes the biggest systemic problem in Slovenia and also in Europe. Unfortunately, the risk analysis also shows a long-term threat to the stability of public finances. The National Assembly is now facing an extremely difficult task. Only 10 years have passed since the reform, and at that time other European countries have moved forward, and today is the time for us to do the same. Modernization is necessary. The proposed solutions also follow needs and changes in other systems, according to distinguished experts. In doing so, I should say that, in the Group of Members, we did expect a little more debate on the problems of the second pillar – a new policy that was finally pointed out by the participants in the debate following the public presentation of opinions on 4 October this year. Taxation which is not stimulating is still envisaged for the life pension benefit of the supplementary pension insurance, as proposed. In this context, we believe the competent minister's remarks that he will find, along with the other authorities, an appropriate solution that will be welcomed in the Zares Group – a new policy. There are some issues that remain open that I believe we will be able to resolve in the next parliamentary procedure to the best of our public benefit. It is about establishing the principle of dependency between payments and payments in the pension scheme, even in the Group of Members of the European Union, really – a new policy is lacking in the introduction of the so-called social cap. In doing so, I will highlight a period which will constitute the basis for the pension. The 34 years proposed may still be the subject of discussion, according to our assessment, and it would be right to listen to various proposals during further discussions and adoptions in the National Assembly, including from the point of view of the failure to pay social security contributions, where the individual has undoubtedly brought a shorter end because of the irregular legislation and its misappropriation by employers. Such actions and reflections are unacceptable to our Group of Members, so we hope that they will be as few as possible after the adoption of the bill or that they will not be. There are also questions regarding the service of military service, the issue of taking account of the number of children to obtain the right to an old age pension, which is reduced for each child born or adopted by eight months, but not more than 24 months, and cannot be reduced below 63 years. We wonder why not under 63 in the case of three, five, six, eight, as much as possible, children. At the same time, we cannot escape the serious problem of the young generation. Creating stable jobs and living conditions for young people must be a high priority, as it would be best to resolve at the same time as pension reform. In addition to the structural changes in the various areas already being addressed by the Government, it is also necessary to move towards enhancing and optimising the quality of life and the satisfaction of individuals. We would like to recall the vision of Dr Trontl, Mr Hanžk, Dr Gregorčič and others, which says that, in order to develop society more evenly, we must create new jobs, adequate work and social standards, implement high standards of environmental protection, enable a more equitable, fair distribution of resources and ensure a sustainable approach. We know that all of these require fundamental changes based on the origins of a free market economy balanced with the modernised role of the social state, which would transform it into a enabling country of prosperity. Prolonging employment will take a lot of movement from all of us, including in the field of working environment and working processes for older people. The competent ministry or government will have to approach more appropriate measures, of course in cooperation with employers, which will enable all older people in the workplace to carry out their tasks correctly, which is likely to require accession to the retraining system, reassignment, implementation of relevant programmes, changes in the work processes themselves, and could also be listed. Without this, it is difficult for me to imagine the successful and quality work of the educator or the educator, the trader or the trader. There is an increasing number of unacceptable pressures precisely because of the workforce’s incapacity and overcrowding of employees, and the working climate is also inadequate or extremely low. In fact, the issue of dissatisfaction of workers and workers at work from year to year is a major problem. But we'll have to talk about it later. So let me get this straight. The bill is a step forward, following the basic objectives of the sustainability of the system and preventing the fall in pensions. Stabilizes pension bases and dose levels. It contributes to greater transparency and actuarial justice. The bill proves that Slovenia is able to adapt in a timely manner to the changing demographic and fiscal situation, so we will support the proposal for a law in the Parliamentary Group. However, it must be noted that this reform, unfortunately, is not and will not last forever. Regular evaluation will be needed, and we fear that after 10 or 20 years we will have to re-adjust or upgrade this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group Forgive me, Mr Urh. Mr Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, director of the Directorate, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that one of the most important structural reforms in Slovenia is indeed pensionable, as the fact is that the financial situation of the pension fund has long been unsustainable and the forecasts are even more bleak. The pension reform is a project of the widest interest that will affect all generations of Slovenes and Slovenes, so it is important that the public be as involved as possible in the creation of the final law on pension and disability insurance, in particular that the consequences and calculations are known for generations just before retirement and for transitional generations. Unfortunately, we do not have these calculations, but the Economic Institute concludes that a comprehensive analysis of all differences between Law No. 1 and Law No. 2 would be possible with a microsimulation pension model in which a sufficiently large sample of individuals would be calculated pension in accordance with all pension parameters defined by PPIZ 1 and PPIZ 2. Since such a model is not available, they have made comparisons of the basic differences in the case of a standardized individual and his pension. The conclusion of the Economic Institute on the impact of the new proposal of the law is that it will have to work for approximately the same pension for about three years longer, that men will receive pensions for as long as they do, and that women will have less time than under the current law, as, for example, the life expectancy of a 61-year-old woman in 2026 is lower than the life expectancy of a 58-year-old in 2009, while for men it will remain virtually unchanged. However, since it is a political decision and a legal irregular arrangement on the other hand, the Institute has not, of course, defined the rights already acquired to those generations that will meet the conditions, for example, in the next five years and, for example, to those who receive the so-called state pension. It is also clear that it will be necessary to further extend the working time in the future if there are no other measures and no more employees, especially young people who will fill the cash register, and that this measure, i.e. this law, is only temporary. Citizens and citizens of Slovenia and all pension beneficiaries have the right to know and consciously decide on such a reform because it is their destiny and their hard-earned money. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are convinced that everyone is also aware of the importance and consequences of this reform for the next generation, for the future of young people. It is obvious that people do not trust the promises and statements of the government and the ministry that it is a fairer regulation of pensions, as they are mass-searching for opportunities to retire before the new law comes into force. They are also encouraged by the fact that this coalition and the Government do not take into account the professional and civil public in legislation which, in the framework of interference with our society and traditional values, do not respect social dialogue, adopt laws by force, and therefore do not have confidence in pension reform and therefore do so in their own way. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we advocate a just pension reform that will not affect generations that have already borne the burden of transition and mistakes from the past. It is most easy to take rights and raise taxes from a position of power and the consequences will be long-term and will achieve the opposite effect of the desired. The fact is that the business environment of the Republic of Slovenia is marked by high workload, high labour costs and also high capital taxation. The consequences are unequivocal, uncompetitive business environment. We expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to remain in a pension reform but to take a more decisive approach to lowering the costs of state administration – we are thinking of unnecessary investments and other material costs – but not to lower the salaries of employees and that the Government will effectively reduce the volume of the grey economy. We do not support any increase in the rate of contribution, as this would increase already too high labour costs. We are also aware that further delay in pension reform over the coming years would lead to even greater complications, so we have been actively and constructively involved in drafting a new law since the first draft of the law. At the stage of the public debate, we have drawn attention to unacceptable proposals that would affect generations who have so far built our society with their work and sacrifices and ultimately the country. We have therefore taken our comments into seven key points to improve the law, and we will insist on some. In doing so, I must point out that some of our proposals were also taken into account at the time of the debate, at the time of our comments. For example, one such comment was that of the first reading or first draft, where there was no relief or reduction in the age at the mother’s retirement. Unfortunately, this comment was only partially taken into account. It was taken into account, however, that all benefits or insurance bases of insured persons, of which contributions to pension and disability insurance were paid, should be included in the pension base for the calculation of the pension. So this comment is taken into account at this stage. But, as I said, we will insist primarily on a few of our comments, such as the following, and I will count them. We propose that the reduction in retirement age, what I have already mentioned, be granted to mothers for all children, not only for three, both in the case of old age and in the case of early retirement. Second, state pension. We insist that the rights already acquired must not be lost by pensioners. Third, compulsory service of military service, to be considered without additional conditions during the retirement period. We are thinking of this compulsory service of military service, either in the time of the former state or in the time of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the period when the service was still compulsory and the boys who served military service were in an unequal position with those who did not have to do it for different reasons. Fourthly, each insured and pensioner shall be provided with direct access to all his past and current data collected at the pension institution through an online application. It is a technical solution that we believe requires a lot of creative work in preparing such an option, but the state must certainly introduce it if we want the pension system to be transparent to all. A number of arguments, and in particular examples from practice, convince us that it is not only the individual’s right to look at and regulate his own data relevant for the exercise of future rights specifically collected for each insured and pensioner, but also the need for a country that will enable the insured to look into the state of insurance and the payment of contributions, as well as the data managers, who will thus be able to regulate the insured’s data in an up-to-date manner and thus ensure a fairer range of rights. On the 1st point I have mentioned, the Slovenian People's Party's Group and our two parties have continued to draw attention to the pressing demographic problem affecting the pension fund since independence. Warned by calculations, the profession did the same. We have proposed measures of family policy to encourage young people to form a family and take care of their successors, who will also supplement the pension allowance. We have also proposed measures to ensure that the burden of parenting is not borne only by women, mothers, but also by fathers. In fact, all society must contribute to parental support. Therefore, we will also insist on the current pension reform in a fairer arrangement for mothers to be recognised by children for reducing the age limit at retirement. Such a positive arrangement has informed young people that the state appreciates their contribution to the country, society and, if you want social treasury and by having children, taking care of them and preparing them for the people, useful citizens. Parents, especially mothers, deserve the so-called "beneficiary internship", a professional pension if I express myself through the terminology of the new pension law, just as it is justified for others who work in difficult jobs, for soldiers, policemen, miners and the like. There is no way we can agree to the thesis that if mothers retire early, because they have given birth to four or five children, they will endanger the pension and state treasury. At the proposed age threshold of 65 years for six children, this means a reduction to only 61 years of age and even 12 children bring only a reduction to 57 years of age, which is still a few months less than now, while the rareness of families with such a large number of children and at the same time taking into account the necessary working age of 41 years, the financial consequences in the pension register are virtually undetectable. Despite the decline in age, the mother must have sufficient working time and therefore this proposal does not constitute a significantly higher burden on the cash register. Parenthood relief is not taken into account for an incomprehensible reason. According to the Slovenian People's Party, this is either discrimination or inconsistencies in the rules. If a person makes a conscious decision or is forced to retire prematurely because of different circumstances, he will, on the basis of a new proposal, receive certain minority in the calculation of the pension, but it is not reasonable that he should be punished at the same time by not recognizing the full benefit of the parent. Nor can we support the unconstitutional provision, which we have already pointed out in the adoption of social legislation, that the already acquired right to state pension is taken away from the beneficiaries and will have to renew the right to social support this time. It is true that the pension fund is burdened by a number of measures that have led in the past to anomalies that appear within the system, but we cannot possibly agree that some 17,000 people take the minimum pension they have already received. We do not agree that, because of some individual cases, the right to a state pension is generally taken to everyone, as those who have a good 200 euro will be affected by the possibility of a decent survival in old years, especially in rural areas, especially farmers and craftswomen who have not been able or should have been insured in the past. We propose that the new pension law should stipulate that this right remains with all recipients and all those who have been granted the right to state pension to enforce the new law. All existing beneficiaries who would be allowed different rights by the new Act on Social Transfers should be allowed free choice or recognition of the right that is more favourable to them. All state pensions paid must be charged exclusively to the state budget as it has been so far. In order to make reform fair, we propose to seriously examine transitional periods and take into account numerous warnings and letters of protest from those who meet the conditions in the next few years. The transitional period is very strict and shows that the government literally wants to take out of the pockets of almost earned pensions. Example. A person who could retire in the first half of June following the old legislation, for example, will receive an additional four years under the new legislation. A specific case for a woman with 56 years of age completed this year, 35 years of working age, two children and two years of recognised study. Cases with such major differences between the old and the new legislation are not shown in the comparative calculations. This tough transition also leads people to take care of their rights as early as this year. On the basis of all these proposals, I propose an amendment to Article 393 to offer the possibility of retirement under the old legislation to all those who have a pension until the date of retirement. 12. For example, 2010 is 5 years or less. This will prevent the mass movement of people to the employment institution and will relieve the country. The people will take care of themselves at such a time until the day of retirement. We have received numerous indignant letters, where the affected require this right because they are just before retirement, which means that most of the working hours have already been served. Nothing will be solved because they feel cheated for a well - deserved pension and are forced to rush them into various ways to retire, to wait, and so forth. I also ask the representatives of the Government or the Minister to explain the following. Why is the past tense not now considered retirement? Another time. Why do parents take up a year that has been recognized as a parent? We hope it's just a mistake, for example, according to my data for students who become mothers. Third time. Or will the correction of the anomaly, when the entrepreneur, p.p., had to close his trade at the time of retirement if he did not hire the worker, but the worker, who had or opened up the st.p., can continue with the espionage after retirement. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will decide on the support of the laws at first reading when the Government's views on our proposals will be reflected in the discussions and responses of the representatives of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u100	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of DeSUS Members on the proposal for a law on disability and pension insurance. After ten years of validity of the current pension system regime, which has not yet completed the gradual and complete transition to the implementation of all legal solutions, we have in the legislative procedure a new modernisation of the pension system. It is comparatively much more striking, most in terms of the question of what it means and what it brings in the field of retirement conditions. This is a topic that understandably raises dissatisfaction and fear of those who will be most affected by the reform in view of the expectation of meeting the conditions under the applicable law for a short period of several years, of course in the sense that they will have to work a little longer if they want to have a full old pension. Let me say right now that we are in the DeSUS Group in relation to this, as the most controversial points of the reform for the representatives of the Labour Party show, the unified view that the transition to a longer active period of work is necessary because this is dictated by demographic conditions and projections, and the reality of a truly premature retirement based on life. As in the vast part of the developed world, life expectancy in Slovenia is increasing and the population is rapidly ageing due to low birth rates. The most numerous postwar generation is going to retirement. This represents a major challenge for the pension system and consequently for society as a whole. In assessing whether the exercise of the right to a pension is determined only by working time or by age, it is not possible to overlook that the combination of the two conditions has been decided by our company two decades ago. The arguments that prevailed at that time came to a much greater conclusion today, but, of course, also between European countries, no pension system is based solely on retirement age. We agree that conditions cannot remain the same as the expected life expectancy and year-on-year retirement periods are increasing. We must not overlook the very important fact that every later generation enters the labour market later and also into substantially changed working conditions as the current generations have entered. In addition, we have assessed that the contribution of older workers to employers and society as a whole is of exceptional importance, as their long-standing experience, knowledge and excellent working habits are passed on to younger generations. Despite the fact that in the work of the reform, which raises the full retirement age to 65 years, we have attached something to the applicant, but there is something to be said about such a high age. The uniformity of retirement at 65 years of age for full retirement is somewhat questionable, in our opinion, due to the different specificities and complexity of jobs according to individual types of activity and the only intensity of work related to the psychophysical abilities of each individual. Indeed, the applicant has somehow taken this into account when it provided for early and partial retirement for those working after the 1960s who would no longer be able to perform in full or in part, but will still be punished with a lower pension, with a permanent minority, because the work obligations could simply not be carried out anymore. It is also true that the applicant has also foreseen the possibility of applying a full old-age pension to those who entered the labour market early at the age of 17, and who are generally employed in industrial and certain service sectors. All the jobs and professions in which we see the questionability of workers to carry out their work and will not be protected by the possibility of a full old pension at the age of 60 and 58 and a pension age of 43 and 41 years, as they will not enter the labour market early due to vocational and secondary education. The possibility seen in good faith by the proposaler to extend work activity is also in retraining workers, and there remains an open question of job opportunities that would offer at least about equal pay standards. Another important aspect of this reform is that we are concerned about how to provide jobs in order to extend work activity, what and how to create new jobs, so that younger generations can be included in the labour market, and at the same time have a secure employment for the older generation. Therefore, if I conclude and sum up on the subject of extending working time, the proposal is fully understandable on the one hand and, on the other hand, there remains the fear that the desired effects will not – even more – there will be a need to see the side effects which, according to our assessment, will show in the area of physical and mental health and in the increase in the level of structural unemployment. A very delicate matter of the bill's proposal is the issue of the wage-retirement relationship. For the DeSUS Group, the issue of the pension coordination formula remains open. If pension coordination is not followed by wage increases, this simply means that pensions will fall significantly, according to the proposed formula 60:40, depending on wage growth, which means an increase in the wage-retirement ratio, the coordination of pensions by Swiss formula, or the formula that departs from the reconciliation of pensions with wage increases, resulting in a further deterioration of the relative income position of pensioners, of which 53% is already at the poverty threshold today. 53%! Among the elderly there are 43%. In the context of proposals for the coordination of pensions, which, of the variants of the modified Swiss formula, clearly bring about a reduction of the pressure on public funding expenditure, thus pursuing only the objective of reducing the expenditure of the pension fund, not the objective of a decent pension for all generations of pensioners. However, the reality must also be taken into account that wages have increased considerably over the past 10 years, by around 81% and pensions by around 56%, irrespective of coordination with wage growth. The reality is also that the cost of living has already been achieved and even exceeded the level of European prices, and wages are about half the value of comparable European wages. So it is expected that wages will increase in the long term. Thus, without appropriate coordination, further reductions in the ratio between average pensions and salaries are inevitable. In order to avoid the consequences of the deterioration of the relative income situation of pensioners, a fair way of coordinating is only a valid way, i.e. full, with wage growth. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that it is necessary and that it is possible to reach a social consensus on what coordination and the relationship between salaries and pensions should be. Our proposal is already well known: with a proposal of 80:20 in favour of wages, we want to get closer to the real capacity of the pension fund and the principle of maintaining the value of pensions to wages. This is a proposal that can be accepted that the serious damage to pensioners will not suffer and that pension funds or public finances will remain sustainable. The coordination period itself is changing with the proposal and it is necessary to know that pension levels are also lower in terms of salaries and that coordination is not acceptable once a year. Delaying pension growth for wage growth also means lagging behind the purchasing power of pensioners for the purchasing power of the active population. Let us not forget that the bulk of pensions are returned to the economy during the month, so pensions are not put aside, as some think, when they consider pensions to be primarily a cost. Contributions. Notwithstanding the fact that the contribution rates and the amount of contributions are laid down by the law governing social security contributions, this law should provide that the contribution rates for pension and disability insurance are the same for employers and workers. In the past, some 15 years ago, the same rates of contribution were in force by 1996. From a total contribution rate of 31 %, the rate of contribution gradually decreased to 24.35 % today, but only for employers, so today the ratio is 15.5 % : 8.85 %. Such a measure should only apply temporarily until the levy on wages is lifted. The measure was also necessary to ensure and strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, to increase job creation. In all these years, the pension register has been reduced by several billion euros. This should therefore also be included among the causes of the pension crisis and the cash register. The State budget thus took over this part of the financing, and until then no budget was needed for the pension fund. Moreover, in the past, surplus pension funds have been channelled into the financing of several important state investments that had no connection with the purpose of the pension fund. Unfortunately, the return to the same level of contribution did not occur at the time of the conjuncture, and it is unlikely that the increase in the rate of contribution would not be on the spot for employers during the crisis. However, such a measure would be necessary, acceptable, and a gradual transition to equalisation of the contribution rate, to raise inflows to the pension register and thus to the sustainability of the pension allowance, not least its eternal autonomy in relation to other sources of funding. In addition, Slovenia is a rare example among European countries which have a half-lower contribution from the employer to the pension fund than the worker's contribution. The principles of the International Labour Organisation are based on the requirement of equal burden of workers and employers. And if, as regards the rise in retirement age and the formula for the coordination of pensions, we want to be aligned with other countries of the European Union, then there is no reason not to take account of the equality of the ratio of payments of contributions from insurers and employers. Furthermore, concerns and objections need to be raised regarding the extension of the period of inclusion of the basics for the calculation of the pension. With the extension of the average years taken into account for the calculation of the pension under the current regime, we agree, of course, as it is absolutely necessary, given certain groups of insurers and known cases of ingenuity, espies, free professions, including farmers, to extend the period taken into account for the calculation of the pension. It is clear that the short-term period causes anomalies and time manipulations by paying higher and lower contributions to criminal insurance are, as a rule, more or less constant payments by the other active population throughout the working life. On the other hand, such an enormous extension is questionable, in particular for the pension of those groups of the active population facing low incomes, a certain part or a significant part of the insurance period when they are not in a regular working relationship, for example at the Employment and Remuneration Institute or, for example, health insurance compensation and, for example, those who work longer hours over small work. Therefore, in a spirit of fairness and solidarity, it is essential that, through the selection of more favourable years and appropriate heights of years, an optimum solution be found that will burden all categories of insurers evenly, since the latter can be found at any time and for a certain period of time in a situation where income is significantly lower. It is recalled that the longer accounting period for the calculation of the pension rate and the borrowing of successive years in general means a fall in pension levels, irrespective of the higher rate and irrespective of the abolition of the valorisation of pensions, the new pensions with pensions already retired. According to some calculations, the pension base is expected to be about 13% lower on average. Therefore, our proposal would be a compromise in order to take 24 years into account, the most favourable years for which the best years are not necessarily covered in successive years. However, for a 24-year period, the pension base would still be around 5.5% lower. One more word about the basis for the payment of contributions. Article 145 lays down the basis of which only employees, farmers and shareholders pay the contributions. The highest insurance base from which contributions to these groups would be paid is, according to the proposal of the law, 3.5 times the average wage. This actually means introducing a social cap, which we object to, as this is clearly contrary to the principle of solidarity in the pension system. Where a social cap is introduced only for certain categories of insured persons, the question of equal treatment of others, i.e. persons in a working relationship, shall also be raised. In addition, the introduction of a social cap in one area may also trigger the introduction to others, such as health insurance. Also, a grave violation of the composition of the institution's board of directors of pension and disability insurance is not reasonable. In addition, we believe it would be useful to examine the possibility of reintroducing the duality of the system's management bodies, i.e. the assembly system that was in force before 2005 and, as others have after their mission, comparable institutions — Health Insurance, Mutual Health Insurance — the composition must necessarily maintain the representation of those who provide the bulk of the necessary funding for insurance. In addition, it is essential that representatives of individual stakeholders play an important role in the design and implementation of the pension and disability insurance system. It would make sense for the Council of the Institute to add a number of tasks, such as cooperation in the design of contribution rates and in the design of valorisation coefficients. It is true that the changing social and economic situation dictates the need to adapt and thus change the pension system, as a public and primary pillar whose mission is to provide a deserving safe and dignified autumn of human life. The general objectives that the bill seeks to achieve, long-term financial sustainability and decent pensions for all retired generations are acceptable and enjoy general support. However, the solutions that are intended to achieve these objectives remain open, as there is doubt that they will have satisfactory, fair and fair results. Above all, the question remains whether the reform of the pension system is sufficient to achieve the desired results and how long can only the reform of the pension system sustain public financial sustainability. For the latter, for the greater autonomy of the pension fund and for a more equitable and fair sharing of the burden of reform, it would be at the same time to examine other areas, labour legislation, tax legislation and, here, at least, to ensure that more consistent implementation of the pension fund is adequately filled. There were some concerns and dilemmas that we see in the Desus Group. In the case of the pension reform of the open, we also hope that the hearing will be considered and duly taken into account in the next reading of the law. By providing our support. Above all, a consensus will be reached on those affected by the reform, pensioners and employment. Otherwise, unless our comments are taken into account for the second reading of the law, there will be no support for this law from the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u101	Mr Milan Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! It was really fun to listen to a respected colleague of DeSUS's, critical thinking about the proposed reform, pension reform. But there is something true, and in the end, however, if it is suitable for further consideration. If this is really support for Slovenian pensioners, then it's really hard to understand the whole thing. The proposed proposal for a new Pension and Disability Insurance Act is intended to introduce the first phase of amendments to existing pension legislation and the amendments in question are expected to enter into force on 1 January 2011. Following the assertion of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, such a change in the existing pension system in the Republic of Slovenia is necessary in order to ensure the financial sustainability of the system beyond 2020. Otherwise, after this year, pension bills would be in very serious trouble. It's about disability insurance. The proposal for a new law following the confirmation of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is not intended to significantly affect the system itself and the rights of persons with disabilities. The proposal or content of the proposal has certainly raised the most dust due to the actual retirement age, which should also be the key objective of such a – if I say so – modernisation of the existing pension system. However, the public debate, which took place in fact far too little time, showed the many negative consequences and effects of such a pension reform and the legitimate opposition of the Slovenian public and, in particular, the unions, who are outraged by the lack of sufficient social dialogue and the process of coordination of proposals and views. Unfortunately, a certain part of the Slovenian public is not fully aware of all the proposed amendments. All are more aware of the extension of the retirement age to 65 years. Unfortunately, there are also many other changes to the important parameters of retirement and, if we are to be found, to reduce human rights. Many Slovenes and Slovenes may not be aware of what the proposed modification of the period for calculating the pension base, which should have been extended to 34 consecutive most favourable years from the previous 18 years, which will certainly significantly reduce the pension base and thus only increase the poverty of a large number of Slovenian pensioners. Already there are more than 50% of them and all of them show very little progress. We also believe in the Slovenian National Party that such a proposal or the content of the new law would only delay the essential problems of the pension system for some time, but it will not provide lasting solutions. In our opinion, it is also necessary to address the financial sustainability of the pension fund elsewhere and with different receptions; otherwise, we may be able to count on the need for a new reform or amendment of the law in a short time. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposer of this law is seeking to resolve the permanent financial stability of the pension fund in the wrong place. First of all, it should be noted that the reasons for the failure so far are not to say harmful management and management of the pension register when quasi-managers or cash handlers have wasted huge funds of the pension fund, either because of their management, managerial incompetence and often consciously. And what is even more sad is the blessing of every time political power. The human resources turbulence itself and all the fuss in the past about the proper management of the pension fund and the sharp reaction of the pensioners' societies confirm the claim that the rabbit or the actual original sin lies in this bush. In the Slovenian National Party, we fully agree with the opinion of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia that the age of 65 as the age limit for full retirement is unacceptable and that the criterion of working time and contributions to pension insurance and not to the age of individuals should be paid. It is clear to every reasonable person that, after this pension reform, the strict conditions for the retirement of many workers and workers will not be able to meet such conditions. The consequences will be severe social distress and poverty on the part of many pensioners, not to mention the vast number of pensioners who are already suffering poverty and are not guaranteed a decent life. I really do not know how Mr Minister, the whole Government and the coalition represent workers, such as builders, fitters and other professions, who require to carry out their work a perfect physical condition and health condition, so that they can carry out their work properly at, say, 63., 64. Or, say, over 60-year-old waitress in some sort of frequency restaurant. Not to mention many other professions, including farmers, whom we forget all too often because we picture the romantic picture of them walking through the fields and forests. In fact, they're working very hard. And workers in the heavy industry. Some other benefits in the proposal, Mr Minister, are only sand in the eyes. In short, the existing system is not completely ideal. However, this new proposal is extremely unfair and constitutes an unacceptable interference with the expected rights. The envisaged bonus system is also unstimulating and will in fact not be stimulating for longer work. Even when we are talking about intergenerational solidarity, we can honestly say that this is not really about solidarity, but rather about exploiting an active working generation. And if I go back to regulating rights based on disability, there are also some questions and concerns. I think first of all about the work, the role and responsibility of disability committees operating at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the institution also pays them, and in the case of insured persons they do not give a sense of objectivity and independence to their financier. It would therefore be appropriate for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as the Ministry of Health, to establish an independent expert body, which would also finance it. Such a body should provide expert opinions on the procedures for deciding on the rights of health, pension and disability insurance and unemployment insurance. Unfortunately, there are many inconsistencies and injustices in this area, too, where there are many cases of relatively healthy young pensioners who enjoy a disability pension with joy and more times of health-critical disabled workers who must work hard at the age of 60 and fail to obtain disability pensioners. Inadmissibility and bad solutions are more and more in the bill. For example, less than 0.3% per month for retirement before reaching full age is too high and should be reduced accordingly. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that three years should be a shorter pension period, i.e. 40 years for men and 38 years for women to retire without deduction. And if I continue to deny any more rights. It is known that since the beginning of the 1990s, and even before that, the insured have retired under a wide variety of favourable conditions, with the assistance of employers who have paid contributions for the purchase of flights from their own or even their own social capital. These generations now enjoy uninterrupted pensions on the basis of the accumulated insurance periods. The fulfilment of the terms of purchase should also be possible for future users, as rights are in principle dependent on paid contributions. It is clearly the intention of the proposer to ensure that insurance undertakings able to meet the conditions for obtaining the right to a pension are able to withdraw this possibility or to make it significantly difficult and thereby further discriminate against them compared to the current beneficiaries of such pensions. It is interesting that delivery only appeared in the final proposal "without the period of time" which shows that the applicant offers, on the one hand, some of the benefits which, on the other hand, by preventing or severely restricting the possibility of purchase. Also in terms of termination, taking into account the additional period of study at a higher or higher school and the duration of military service or the time of unemployment at once without a gradual reduction during a transitional period, it is actually too much of an intervention in rights. If consideration of these periods has to be abolished as an added period to meet the conditions for obtaining the right to a pension, this should be done gradually, taking into account a longer transitional period. With this right, the current working generation has calculated its work activities and it is not fair to take this right. I think there's quite a few of us here that concern us. In the case of insured persons who have a voluntary supplementary pension, for example, in accordance with the capital company's management, they also have an agreed start on the use of an additional pension or pension at the time of their regular retirement on the basis of compulsory insurance. The new arrangement implies an additional reduction so that the additional pension can be enjoyed only later than the proposal provides for regular retirement. It is necessary to provide that the pension begins to be paid when the conditions for compulsory insurance pension are met under the current rules. In short, we could still list these rights cuts. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not confirm such an unacceptable proposal for a law, and we do not believe that it is suitable for further consideration. And we're not going to be running some maneuvers here to blind our constituents, like Desus does. Finally, he will accept all the conditions proposed by the Ministry, which is not fair to Slovenian pensioners. This is no help to Slovenian pensioners. This is rather a nose-punching of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In 1999, the current Pension and Disability Insurance Act was adopted so-called PPIZ1. The 2000 reform worked, but according to current analyses also due to the financial economic crisis, this reform is no longer sufficient in the medium term. If we want to provide, at least on the medium term, a pension scheme that will fulfil its obligations to its insurers and will also be financially sustainable, the necessary measures taken by the Government by means of a proposal for a law, namely the ZPIZ2, are brought to Parliament. The result of the law now in force is also increasingly lower pensions, which especially pushed certain groups of pensioners over the age of 65 to the risk of poverty. The bill before us is thus based on two key objectives. The first is the financial sustainability of the pension system and the second is to provide decent pensions or to stop the fall of pensions, as more and more of the elderly lived on the brink or even below the edge of poverty, which is unacceptable for the Liberal Democrats. The financial sustainability of the system and the prevention of the further fall in pensions will be achieved by raising the actual retirement age and changing the way pensions are valorised, depending on the demographic situation and the financial and economic situation. A decent pension can be provided by an individual from a variety of ways called the three pillars. Each of the three pillars has a certain role to play, with a key part of the changes focused on the first, i.e. the public pillar, which is still the foundation of our pension system. The main message of modernisation of the pension system is that both the state and individual are responsible for maintaining and improving economic and social security. At the LDS Club, we support both the core objectives set by the Government in the design of pension adjustments. This law is understood as a search for a balance between the interests of young people coming to the labour market, the middle generation that bears the greatest burden of pensions. So those who are close to retirement and those who already enjoy a well-deserved pension. Pensions come from groups of different interests after employment, sex, age, status, and so forth. The compromise reached in the text of the proposed law is, in our view, satisfactory, although it seems, but there are also clear messages that many are dissatisfied. The key measures to achieve the objectives of the reform are: to increase the proportion of active insurers by extending the work activity and raising the actual retirement age, to maintain solidarity in the pension scheme, to establish the principle of dependency between payments and the pension scheme and to pay off, to establish greater transparency and transparency of the system. The problems of the current pension system have proved to be faster in the current financial crisis than anticipated, but even without the crisis, the system should be updated within a few years. Predicts show that we are at the edge of the sustainability of the current system in 2020 when the expenditure of the pension fund would be spent on 11.2 of the social gross product. However, in order to cover the pension fund, much more costly amounts should also come from the state budget than so far. The pension system can't be transformed into a different one overnight. Preparation, graduality and transitional periods are needed, so it is the responsibility of the Government of the present and future generations to undertake reforms immediately. We must be aware of this by all actors involved in amending pension legislation. At the LDS Club, we support the transitional periods proposed by the Government and, in our opinion, are necessary for a less stressful transition to the new system. In the grave, the problem of our pension system can be divided into two parts. There are not enough people involved, as a result of the late inclusion of young people in the labour market and the elderly are leaving the labour market too soon. The proportion of people aged between fifty-five and forty years among the working population was 32.8% in 2008, one of the lowest in the European Union countries. In addition, we have larger groups of people who do not pay contributions from the work they do. Many, however, who are involved in the system pay the lowest amounts of contributions because the system has so far made this possible. The problem in the Republic of Slovenia is increasing demographic movements, which show that we will have fewer and fewer populations to pay for the cash register. The ratio between the retired and the working population on short- and medium-term terms will not withstand pressure, so this ratio needs to be changed on both sides of the age curve included in the labour market. This means encouraging older people to remain in the labour market for longer periods of time and, at the same time, to include young people in the labour market as soon as possible. In the LDS, we support measures on the proposal for a law because we believe they are simply urgent and that we are addressing the right issues and dealing with them accordingly. At the same time, it still maintains solidarity as a fundamental principle and value. We agree with the rise in retirement age, because calculations and simulations have convinced us that this is one of the points of maintenance of the system in advance. Some would say that there are other solutions, such as an increase in the rate of contributions, but in the LDS Club, we believe that this would further burden the generation that is already bearing the greatest burden. Moreover, this would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The transition periods, which are very important for the gradual transition to a new arrangement, seem appropriate to us. It is important that the new proposal introduces or maintains a system of Malus and Bonuses that aims to encourage people to remain active for longer. An important incentive, for example, will be to pay 20% of the early retirement pension if the individual decides to continue working. For us in the LDS, stimulating marriage solutions are important, which encourage people to stay longer working. In increasing working age, however, we consider and point out that there are certain limitations. Human abilities are not limitless because there are biological, physiological, health and other limitations that need to be respected. Therefore, on the spot, they pointed out that we will also have to change certain social processes at conceptual level in order to achieve these objectives. We are convinced that it is essential to adapt jobs to the older population and be able to integrate into lifelong learning. These are the segments where employers, workers and the country face great challenges. Depending on the law before us in its close connection, it is also a priority to reduce unemployment and create quality and better paid jobs. In reducing retirement age, only the possibility of children is maintained, and all other exceptions are abandoned. We believe that this makes the system more transparent. At the parliamentary club, we encourage the maintenance of an exception in children where parental care is shown. It is also a matter of positive discrimination, as this right will continue to be exercised by women in the majority. As we have already done in the debates at the LDS, we are again questioning the recognition of compulsory military service as an opportunity to reduce retirement age. The new law does not allow for an option that includes the current law. We note that it was a legal obligation that could not be avoided, so it would be unfair for those who had survived a certain period of life in the compulsory service of the military service to be able to do so compared to those who were able to work during that period. We believe that there are unjustified differences, since those serving the military term will later meet the conditions for retirement. In the LDS, we support the extension of the period for determining the pension base for the current eighteen years for a longer period. Our reflection and consideration is whether it is necessary to take consecutive years or if it is possible to bring together the best years. In particular, in the younger population, it is not necessary that every next job is better, today's labour market times are changed. We also believe that the length of the pension base is still free for talks and an agreement that would be different and even shorter than the anticipated and successive 34 years. Of course, the most just solution would be to take the entire working period into account, as it would prevent all speculation. This task certainly represents a response to the further construction of the pension system or the next reform. At the LDS, we also support the determination of a higher percentage, which, according to the calculations presented, stops the fall in pensions because we believe that this reform is essential. We would like to stress that on the other hand, the labour market curves would also be able to set up more mechanisms. This is to allow for faster entry of young people into the labour market, mechanisms to stimulate employment, valuable working relationships and less diverse circuits in the form of seemingly self-employment, which appears to be an increase in entrepreneurship. Prolongation of working time is a necessary but not a sufficient measure. We are aware, however, that such measures cannot be placed only in the present proposal of the law, but that these measures must also be of a systemic nature in other areas. In the LDS, we very much welcome the measures taken to establish the principle of dependency between payments and payments. Since pension rights are derived from work, so far there has been a major problem in avoiding or paying low amounts to certain entities, for example, p.p., working through an copyright or retirement contract into a pension register. In view of the situation, it is necessary to extend the circle of insurers and to include all forms of work. This was also followed by the Ministry in the case of small work. It is also a welcome opportunity for voluntary inclusion in compulsory insurance. We agree with the direction set out in the proposal of the pension law that each work counts. It's one big piece of content in the marriage. In extending or increasing the insurance base for contributions, we stress in particular that the proposal for a law should also be followed by the implementation of other systemic measures that will prevent the system from playing. In doing so, we estimate that the insurance base system is set at 60% of the average wage in RS to be a fairer solution if we follow the principle that they should pay the basis for a pension that will not require social transfer to prevent the risk of poverty. In doing so, it should be pointed out that a transitional period is to be introduced by 2017 when we move gradually from 50 % to 60 % of the average wage. In the area of accounting and payment of contributions to the pension register, we support the novelty of the LDS Club, which prohibits the postponement of payments of contributions. Although the previous solution in the law that allowed this to happen had a good purpose, it had unfortunately been born. Without the employee’s knowledge, someone has approved the postponement of payments of contributions which form an integral part of the salary and which also derives from the rights. In our view, it is only possible to postpone payment if, on the other hand, the State transfers the weight of unpaid contributions and also provides for the recovery of unpaid contributions. However, we expect a systemic solution for companies in short-term difficulties and to ensure their continued success through other measures. There is also something to be said about the formula or coordination of pensions, which is also linked to the relationship between pensions and salaries. So with a question that needs to be given all the attention and attention. This is also followed by one of the two objectives of the law, which is to prevent the further deterioration of pensions. At the LDS, however, we reiterate our responsibility to bear the same burden of the future for all generations. Therefore, it would be unreasonable and unfair to propose this only to some. We are of the opinion that the formula for coordination according to the calculations presented to us is appropriate, but that, as Minister, he would like to emphasise, the "snatting" of the grave edges is yet another space, which we also agree with at the LDS Club. In doing so, we believe that an excessive derogation would constitute a threat to the entire proposed system, which would be irresponsible. Since the law follows the solution that pensions are to the maximum extent reflected in the contributions paid, it is appropriate to clear the pension allowance of all payments not linked to the contributions paid and to find an appropriate solution elsewhere. Thus, it is excluded from the pension scheme of a state pension, which moves during social transfers and does not end, which needs to be highlighted in particular. It will also be more appropriate, increasing from €180 to €450 if the person does not have other resources to support. It is very important for the LDS that the new law preserves the principle of solidarity, which also shows that the law preserves family, disability and widow's pensions and that the relationship between the highest and lowest pensions is maintained between 1 and 4. The first so-called public pillar is subject to the greatest changes in the law. It is the responsibility of the State to the greatest extent, since in our view it must be based on a fair distribution of burdens and intergenerational solidarity and must, as such, guarantee social security, i.e. a decent pension. A specific part of the law represents the occupational insurance or compulsory supplementary pension scheme, which must be designed in such a way as to enable each insured person to influence his or her pension through his or her salary during an active period, thereby increasing the low pension awareness and transparency of the operators themselves. This is an important change that will allow employees working in difficult and health-related jobs to be included in a specific capital-covered scheme of predetermined contributions. The amount of the occupational pension will therefore no longer be fixed but will depend on the amount of the funds raised in the special account of the fund member at the time of the exercise of the right to a professional pension. This is the same system as for compulsory pension insurance. On the other hand, the second and third pillars are intended to preserve the social position of the insured at the time of retirement and require accountability from the individual. The area of individual voluntary insurance is quite underdeveloped in Slovenia, so in the LDS Club we specifically call for an urgent consideration of additional incentives to increase the involvement of individuals and employers in this form of insurance. It is necessary to achieve such an increase in the share of the premiums involved, as well as the yield achieved, if we are to maintain not only the financial but also the social sustainability of the pension system, together with the pension from the first pillar. The main novelty of the individual insurance that we support in the LDS is the investment policy of the member's life cycle, which means that the member assumes an investment risk corresponding to his age. As the retirement day approaches, investment policy is more conservative. Investment policy is implemented by pension funds that can be formed as mutual, umbrella, critical or as a group of covert funds. An individual will be allowed to choose whether to be included in a minimum guaranteed return fund or in life-cycle funds. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that the whole European Union is facing similar challenges to pension reforms as we have seen in Slovenia. This year, the European Commission held a public consultation on pension systems, as many EU countries are introducing pension reform as a result of population ageing. Although we are in pain in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the necessary reform. Simply because it is essential for the stability of the pension fund and to prevent the further fall of pensions. The procedure for preparing the pension reform has been lengthy. He started more than a year ago. We therefore believe that they do not take the lead in saying that there was not enough time to discuss and make comments. Of course, we want social dialogue to continue, as the law can be improved in the framework of the parliamentary procedure. At the same time, we will strive to upgrade the talks with successful arrangements, taking into account arguments and realistic options. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the fact that today we are talking about a reform that is likely to need to be upgraded in the next 10 and 15 years. But today and in the future, the reform that affects each and every one of us must be balanced between all generations. Intergenerational solidarity, which applies to the first pillar of compulsory pension and disability insurance, is based on the flow of the system — those who work pay contributions for those who are retired. These two fields are indisputably interconnected and interdependent. So if one part is down, the other part is placed in an unsolvable position. We must have this in front of all those who will eventually decide on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u106	Good afternoon, Mr Vice President, Minister and Director of Directorate, colleagues and colleagues! Every day for five hours, every year for three months and every ten years for three years, the expected life expectancy has been extended in developed industrial companies, including Slovenia, since 1960. This trend continues. The second fact that is important in considering pension reform is the demographic structure of the population, particularly in Slovenia, where, due to low fertility, it becomes more rapid in favour of the older population than in some comparable countries. According to demographic projections, the proportion of the working population will decrease and the proportion of the population over 65 years of age will increase. Already in 2018, it will grow from 16% to 19% in the next 10 years to 23%, which means that in 20 years it will increase by a bad half. In 50 years, this share will double. Both of these facts support the sustainability of the pension fund. If ever, after the last comprehensive and economic fact, it is supported by an analysis of the impact of the proposed pension legislation produced at the Institute of Economic Research at the Faculty of Economics and also publicly presented, it has been confirmed that the problem we need to resolve as a responsible society has all been serious. In fact, we have three possible alternatives: increasing the contribution rate for the pension system and thus transferring the burden to the active population, lowering pensions in line with the reduced inflow of funds to the pension fund. By the way, this option is already included in the existing pension system. We know the position of a large part of the pensioners. If we do not change the system, the social security of the current pensioners will continue to decline. I remind you of the 151st article of the existing law. Or the alternative used by the drafters of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is to extend the working time to obtain the right to a retirement pension. We know that this strategy is also used in most comparable European countries in the European Union. So there's nothing special about Slovenia. In the proposal to extend working time, it should be explicitly stressed, which is too little in the public eye, that the extension is very gradual. It is expected to be extended by six months per year, which means that a man would be the age condition for reaching a retirement pension, that is 65 years old, reached 2021 and women in 2025. In the SD Group, we also find it highly acceptable the proposals of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia to provide new resources for the financial sustainability of the pension fund, which cannot fully represent the fourth alternative path to addressing the sustainability of the pension fund. We support their proposals as well as how they would not, as they speak of opening up new productive jobs, chasing jobs in black, consistently recovering contributions to pension and disability insurance. We'll do our best. We'll do our best. But we cannot blind ourselves to the fact that the gap between the needs of the coming generation of pensioners and the possibilities of the pension fund is too great and that we must therefore cut down some of the not-too-popular measures, such as the extension of working time. In the introduction to my debate, I would like to stress in particular that the drafters of the bill have also led to a starting point for the burden of pension reform to be shared among generations. The existing pension system is based on a good principle. This is said to be the principle when an active generation pays pensions to a passive generation or to a retired generation. Following this proposal, the active population is expected to work longer and the pension coordination formula is expected to change to the already retired population. However, I should like to point out that, in fact, the further decline in the value of pensions, which has been systematically incorporated into the existing PPIZ-1, has been halted. It is also worth noting that the existing proposal as a basis for achieving social security in old age is still being built on compulsory pension insurance and that it increases the link between the amount of pensions and the remuneration of an individual in principle. At the same time, it maintains a high level of solidarity, which is mainly reflected in the establishment of a minimum pension base, which will play a very important role in pensioners with the lowest income. This will particularly be reflected in the situation of women whose wages on average fall 8 to 10% behind men's salaries. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to maintaining the relationship between the highest and lowest pensions. We express our support for the proposed law, but we will try to put forward the following comments and proposals on it: an extension of the transitional period for obtaining old-age pensions for those workers and workers who have started working early. We propose that the transitional period should only be extended by 4 months and not by 6 months per year. Another time. Reduction in the number of years to determine the pension base. The bill provides for a 34-year period as a basis for calculating the pension base. Despite the revised calculation of the pension base and the compensatory factor incorporated into the law, the extension of the number of years taken into account in the calculation of the pension base will have an impact on the level of the pension base of future pensioners and is expected to show a decrease of 12,11 % for men in the case of a 34-year period and 10.05 for women. According to the wage policy in Slovenia in the last period, which we are all well aware of, the pensions will be very low. We therefore propose that we find a compromise solution to determine the basis, for example 25 years, which will take into account the principle of greater fairness and the linkage of payments with benefits, as well as the preservation of an adequate pension for the majority of the population. Third time. Greater consideration of positive discrimination for women. Although the law retains a parental bonus in reducing retirement age, this can only be applied to 3 children. Social Democrats join initiatives to preserve the provisions of the old law, which increases ratings for every child in the family. After all, every new child is a new mercenary in a pension box. Fourth time. The proposal that we do not take into account sickness and parental benefits on a pension basis. We propose to maintain the solution provided for in the old law, which provides that the remuneration for the calculation of the pension base shall be taken into account, or the basis from which contributions from the calendar year were paid before the start of the remuneration. We stress that the solution proposed will be the most vulnerable. It is also sick mothers who more often benefit from care for their children than fathers, and with already calculated pensions in the next period, this will, of course, be reflected in the amount of their pensions. Fifth. Taking into account the periods for which contributions have been made and paid. Although the proposal of the law provides that payments of employers' contributions to pension and disability insurance shall not be deducted, nor shall it be deferred or paid in instalments, as it may be now, the solution of payments of contributions to individuals, if there is a breach of the law, is not, in our opinion, the most fortunate. Where contributions are made after 1. 1. 2011 would not have been paid and the payment of contributions from the employer would not have been recovered; the burden would have fallen on the worker. We are kind of opposed to this proposal. We are proposing a different, better solution because the recovery of contributions is not the responsibility of workers, but the responsibility of state authorities. In the context of the debate on the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance, I would also like to draw attention to the problem related to the payment of contributions from employers and employees. We cannot solve this under the pension law, as regulating this issue is part of the Social Contributions Act. However, if we follow the principle of fairness, we cannot overlook the fact that the relationship between employees' and employers' contributions is unbalanced, 15.5 to 8.85. The total contribution rate for pension and disability insurance is 24,35. The contribution rate for employers has halved in the past, resulting from legislative changes. It was mainly linked to the introduction of a payroll tax, which we have recently definitively abolished. According to Eurostat, the share of social security contributions paid by employees is the highest among the 27 countries in the European Union and the share of employers' contributions among the three lowest in the same programme. Under better or more sustainable economic conditions, we should consider a legal change that will lead to an equalisation of the contribution rate between employers and employees. The principles of the International Labour Organisation set out in Article 71 of the ratified Convention 102 are also based on the requirement of equal burden of workers and employers. This measure should be amended, as we have already said, by the Law on Social Contributions in relation to how the economic situation in Slovenia will be resolved. Social Democrats also point out, in the proposal under consideration, that the proper regulation of pensions and disability insurance is linked to the further regulation of the working conditions for the active population. Improvements in job protection, adaptation of jobs and working conditions of older workers, so-called age management, construction of workers with a friendly working environment, are prerequisites that staying in the workplace will not only force but also the desire of employees. Today, due to the excessive humiliation of workers and workers who are turned into speaking tools alone, retirement is an individual’s exit strategy. We welcome the proposal for measures to promote active ageing prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is intended to bring about measures to transform society according to the age of the population and to promote their active role in society. The proposal for this document is already in Parliament and will be addressed on the home working body. Notwithstanding the long process of harmonisation of the bill between the social partners, the parliamentary procedure is uncoordinated. Social Democrats are calling on the social partners to continue negotiations despite the start of the legislative process, as due to the importance of the law concerning the majority of the population, we need to achieve the best possible compromise solutions in favour of all. And as the recent experience has shown, insistence on trenches means you're losing both sides. Let me finish. Members of the Group of Social Democrats, on the basis of the proposals and concerns expressed, nevertheless, we assess that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. However, we will try to implement our proposals in the next process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! 11 years ago, 1999 in the National Assembly, we passed the Law on Disability Pension Insurance, namely the ZPIZ-1, which began a major reform of the pension and disability insurance that increased the retirement age of women from 56 to 58 years and men from 61 to 62 years. At the same time, the average age pension decreased from 77 % to 69 % of the average wage. Therefore, amendments were adopted in 2005 that halted or slowed the fall of the pension relative to wages. However, it is not so much the legal age for retirement as it is the actual age at which people actually retire. Our situation here isn't so bad at all. With us, men now retire at 61 years of age, such as in Poland and Italy, Germany and the Czech Republic at 62 years of age, and in Austria and France at 59 years of age. Women retire from our country at 58 years of age, as in Austria, the Czech Republic and Poland. In France, for example, at 60 and in Germany at 61 years of age. The reform, designed in 1999 and corrected in 2005, has not yet been completed. And the retirement age is expected to rise gradually until 2023. The reform envisioned inviting bonuses for those men who would also be 63 years old and women who would remain in a working relationship after 61 years of age. The government is now proposing a reform that increases the age limit for men and women to 65 years. Worktime for men for 43 years and for women for 41 years. It removes many bonuses and introduces strong maluses that will punish all who fail to meet the maximum criteria. Let's go in one order at a time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that the pension fund needs to be stabilised. As in the adoption of the State budget, national spending should be balanced with revenue. We are also aware that the life expectancy of the population is increasing and that the relationship between pensioners and employees will continue to deteriorate for a number of years, leading to an ever-increasing modest income for the pension fund and an ever-increasing need for expenditure. However, we believe that despite more than one year of discussions, the Government is very lacking. In the hope that the proposed law can still be amended, we would like to draw attention to some of the most outstanding shortcomings or bad solutions. Firstly, the proposed amendments to pension legislation will, with the drastic rise in the age limit, the extension of the required working age and the difficult cuts for the missing years, have a major impact on other areas as well. This was also pointed out by the Government when it wrote, quote, "to the challenge of ageing the population and thus the ageing of the labour force is not able to respond successfully and comprehensively with a more appropriate pension system, but adjustments to other social security subsystems, particularly in the field of labour law, safety and health legislation at work and active employment policies are also necessary. Only reform of the pension scheme will not be sufficient if it is not accompanied by simultaneous structural changes in the economic and public sectors." That's what the government said a year ago. Now there is neither spirit nor hearing about a more comprehensive solution to these questions. Secondly, at least at the beginning of the mandate, the Government swore an oath of social dialogue, which is particularly important in those legislative proposals which have a strong impact on workers' rights. The trade unions are now warning, I quote, "that the level of social dialogue is the lowest after Slovenia's independence also due to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to send to the National Assembly the proposal ZPIZ-2 without the consent of the social partners represented in the Economic Social Council". So trade unions. However, the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce notes, I quote, "that social dialogue between the social partners and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has reached the lowest point in the last years of the Economic Social Council or that social dialogue is no longer at all". Such a craftsman's chamber. This, Your Honor, is a poor road map for the continuation of this law, as trade unions are forecasting a referendum and the Chamber of Commerce even civil disobedience. Thirdly, the law introduces the payment of contributions to pensions and, of course, health insurance from all incomes, including from authors' fees, business contracts, student work, awards, meetings and so on. That's good. We welcome this, but it is not fair that new taxes will also be paid for all work. For example, if you travel by car for the needs of your employer and therefore receive the prescribed mileage from him, you will also have to pay social security contributions, even though you have already paid taxes and high taxes by buying a car and fuel. Fourth time. The proposed pension legislation will also affect craftsmen and farmers, as it will greatly increase their base from which contributions are paid. The rise in unemployment during the crisis is also mitigated by the promotion of self-employment. It is not about any wealthy craftsmen, but those who thus save their unemployment and may try to break into a overcrowded service market. So far, contributions have been paid from the minimum gross wage, with an average wage of 60% in Slovenia from now on. As early as March this year, they were affected by an increase in the minimum gross wage from five hundred and seventy-seven to seven hundred and forty-four euros. 60% of the average gross salary, which today amounts to EUR 1,000 four hundred and eighty-eight euros, amounts to a tax base of eighty-eight. This will increase their contributions by 21%. The competitiveness of our craftsmen and farmers will fall further. It is not right that, because of the inability of inspection services to detect abuse, when a lawyer or a doctor charges a minimum wage on high incomes, we will also punish those self-employed who do not actually achieve a minimum income. Fifth. Disability organisations also have very strong comments which have not been taken into account by the Government due to the lack of social dialogue so far. It is not only about paying social contributions to disabled companies, but also about whether the allowance for assistance and service and disability, i.e. compensation for physical impairment, is it really just a social transfer that will no longer be paid from the pension allowance? Is it not a right from a contractual relationship with the employer, a right for which we have all paid in the pension fund so far? If the allowance for assistance and service and disability are excluded from the pension allowance, the pension contribution should therefore be reduced accordingly and the money transferred to social security. Six. Even to highly educated people, this legislation is criminal. Since regular studies are not counted during working hours, I wonder which university educated person will reach thirty-four years of working age by the age of fifty-five. Those who are employed at the age of thirty, which is very common among these educated, will, by the age of fifty-five, at best have only thirty-five years of work. Because of the heavy maluses, only 66% of the base, and not 86%, will be given a pension, as the proposalr is joking with us. This category will decrease by an additional 12 to 14 % due to the extension of the accounting period from eighteen to forty years. It's a week. It is among the highly educated and among the young that, as a result of all this, there is less motivation for the recruitment of working age. Simple calculations, such as those that have been circulating around the world for some time now, have also helped. If a regular worker with a thousand euro a net salary of 370 euros per month instead of a five-year bonded bank, he would save 211 000 euros after 29 years. Instead of the pension he will receive after 29 years of 580 euros, after 29 years he will receive EUR 590 interest from the bank each month. In addition, he would be left with a principal whom he could devote to his children or to the purchase of a protected apartment. Therefore, counting people will be even more hiding their incomes after paying back their contributions than any income, and the grey economy will be even more. The Ministry was probably aware of this problem, and it announced in the beginning the gradual establishment of the so-called National Defined Contribution, the NDC, which is known mostly in the northern European countries as well as in Italy. It is a virtual personal account from which the insured person can at any time understand how much he has already contributed to the pension fund and what would be the pension if he retired prematurely or if he continued in the working relationship even after he has fulfilled all the conditions for retirement. Only such a model is transparent, fair and financially sustainable. Seen because the insured person knows the amount of the funds paid, is fair because the benefits depend on the contributions paid, and is financially sustainable as the revenues and expenditure are offset. At the first presentation of the law, the minister said, quote, "If we want to introduce NDC in a few years' time, the system should be seducted in this direction today". Today, there is no spirit or hearing about the NDC system. Why? Or is it because it would be difficult to do so? Let's see. Article 140 of the Act requires the institution to provide an informational calculation of the old or early retirement pension to an insured person who is 5 years old until early retirement. However, in the section on supplementary insurance, the law in Article 242 instructs the insurance manager to keep personal accounts of members of the pension fund. The Member's personal account, as the law says, must contain data on individual deposits, total value of savings and so on. However, by 31 January of the current year at the latest, the pension fund manager shall inform each member of the status of his personal account on 31 December of the previous year. If all of this is to be established in a legally established transitional period, it would also be possible to establish an NDC system or a virtual personal account. I hope that the Minister has not given up on this system because he would fear excessive transparency that would make it difficult to abuse the pension fund in various unjustified privileges. With the help of a virtual personal account, any insured person could also disclose and prevent the abuse of an employer who may be hiding the non-payment of contributions. The Kosovo Commission has already warned the government three years ago that, I quote, "we are getting more and more complaints from affected individuals and trade union representatives about the suspicion of corruption, stating that the competent state authorities do not allow them to see the data, or employers indicate calculated and paid social security contributions, in particular, compulsory pension insurance". So it's the anti-corruption commission. Today, in times of crisis, this problem has escalated so much that more transparency in the payment of contributions is needed. The establishment of a virtual personal account would also mean a healthy pressure on the pension system, in which not only the principle of social equality and solidarity must be established, but also the principle of economic justice. The amount of the pension must also be more dependent on the contributions paid, otherwise it will have no motivational role. Let me finish. The Slovenian Democratic Party is aware of the problem of unfavourable demographic movements and supports the basic purpose of the law to establish a sustainable pension system. The life expectancy of 60 years old men is now 19 years and 24 years. If we raise the retirement age from the current 60 to 65 years in accordance with the proposed law of this population, we will reduce pension payments by five years or 23%. If we continue to extend the payment of contributions, i.e. a four-year working period, we will increase the inflow by 10% in the pension allowance. The pension balance will therefore improve by 33% under this law. However, if we take into account the new taxation of all incomes and even controversial reimbursements of labour-related costs, we are promised a very strong pension box, where it will be possible to continue to monitor budgetary resources through unsecured loans and the state-owned rehabilitation of the bank, which is so much in the national interest. In the SDS, we doubt that the rehabilitation of the pension system requires such painful interventions on the part of the insured. Most of all, we are disturbed by the shortcomings that we have outlined. This law is becoming a system, not only nationally inconsistent, but also even more unjust, complex and imprecise. With the increasingly negative motivation for paying the contributions, as in Finance, Janez Šuštersič will write, of course, by paying the most those who have the worst accountants. Therefore, our support for the law will depend on whether the coalition is willing to support our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Director of Directorates, Members and Members of Parliament! I want to start my debate with a statement. I received an e-mail at my e-mail address, as all other Members and Members of Parliament are likely to be looking under my fingertips at how I will decide on the proposed law. There is no need to stress this in particular. Every vote I make is publicly available to everyone. I now declare in advance that I intend to support the proposal for a law at first reading, that they will have no problem when they look for my decision in my constituency. That's the first thing. Secondly, I do not think that the time for discussion on the preparation of the modernisation of the pension system is short. For several years we have been dealing with this idea of the need to modernise the pension system. However, we also had two public presentations of the opinions of the National Assembly, so it was time to familiarise ourselves with the draft or draft law. But what I'm seeing has not changed much from the first chance I've seen to this point. And just before that, Mr Cukjat quoted him as saying that a highly educated person would not be able to get 43 years of work at 65 years of age. I'm living proof that I can do this. But that's not even essential, because it's not essential that we rely on an individual. But he took into account cumulative 2 data. In fact, it takes 65 years to get a retirement pension in a marriage, with a substantially lower retirement pension only in 15 years. That's two basics. Second. I will support this law because it protects those who entered the labour market early. And I wish that, over the years, there would be those that we had to start working very early in very poorly paid jobs in the future, as little as possible. Here's the basic problem. Why do we have low pensions? Because we have a lot of low personal income or wages. And the education structure is improving, thank God. And I expect that there will also be jobs created, which we say bring added value, more and more. This seems to me to be a major change that we should make on what we cannot resolve with pension legislation. They seem critical to me for two generations. At the beginning, those who are relatively late entering the labour market are educated individuals who have not entered the labour market early because of the student work, and those who are after 55 years of age, where all data shows that we have few employees. Therefore, I think it is necessary to create conditions for young people to be able to join the labour market as soon as possible and that they can stay longer in the labour market after 55 years of age. Therefore, it is also necessary to change the attitude towards older workers and to adopt incentives for workers to be willing to keep such workers in the workforce. I don't have much time, so just be quick. I oppose the cap because I believe that one of the fundamental attributes of our pension system is solidarity. Given that the basis for the contribution is also the basis for a later pension, it seems to me that an active well-earned population, due to solidarity with others, should also pay in accordance with its contributions due to intergenerational cohesion. But I'm defending the Swedish model, which, however, limits the highest pensions. Because there is also a need to ensure that there are no pensions, at least some of them fly to heaven. The 67-year age limit that Sweden already has does not mean that they leave the labour market at 67, but because they are able to decide for themselves how they can survive on bonuses and on anything else with a metered pension. This is also related to what kind of job someone works in and what he can provide for his life. The things that would suggest mention in relation to the reform that we are talking about, or modernisation, are a great deal. A lot of this has already been said. However, I am convinced that there is still time for some of the comments to be taken into account in the second and third readings. So I don't see any problem with pressing the key for when we talk about whether the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u111	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a nice hello to you all! I am pleased that, in fact, all the parliamentary groups in the presentation of the opinion have expressed the view that reform is, of course, necessary and that demographic indicators are as they are. Thank God, at least with regard to demographic indicators, if they are so bad, we agree here because at least in this area is the truth alone. While I am sure that the truth is also one in the area of solutions that can be made for the current situation and is forecast here, it can reach the satisfaction of all generations. It is clear, however, that the legislation we are now amending is part of a broader process called the new social contract. And that we will need relations between different generations, as well as interest groups in this country, in the coming years and not even in such a very long time, but quickly re-write and re-create if we want this society to be still able to be solidarity and remain competitive at the same time. Therefore, it is also important for me to ask who are all these stakeholders who must be involved in this debate on the revision of the pension system. We have heard here from a number of members of the group that the social partners were not sufficiently taken into account that trade unions were not taken into account, that pensioners were not taken into account, and that the current reform is most affected by the ones I mentioned last time, short-term workers and pensioners. I'm pretty sure it's not like that at all. This reform will now affect the current pensioners to a very small extent, of course, the current workers as well. Even more so will it affect those who are not yet in the labour market, those on whose behalf you will rarely hear a voice. Of course, they're not voters. They are minors, and they have not actually participated in this debate, but they should. I am sure that this pension reform is much more than that of the Minister of his parents, and I hope they are still alive, and I am being pursued by my children. And from this point of view, I also find certain proposals, which have been presented here as compromises, seem extremely unfair and misleading. We also hear statements from trade unions, opinions that I myself agree that the pension is a right arising from the past work, that the pension is not a social transfer, but we want to do just that with certain solutions from the pension. If we do not agree that the pension will be accounted for, practically the whole period should or 34 years as proposed, but will be charged at 18, 24, 25, I do not know how now this compromise proposal will crystallize, the fact is that we are working from this right to social transfer. If each of us expects to be comparable to what he has invested, even getting out, he must take the entire lease to say the accounting period. I'm waiting for answers, too. I hope that the Minister will also respond to this challenge put by my colleague Tsukati, in short why we did not insist on this NDC system, where they were complicated and why this clarity has not been fully achieved. I also allow the possibility that we will continue to do so in the past, just as we have done for certain pension insurance rights from the Treasury. And I think it makes sense that if we have taken on the obligations we had, say, to military personnel from the previous system and to their pensions, we will do the same for those who served military service periods, as regards working hours, as far as contributions are concerned, contributions were not paid during this year's military year. It makes sense, however, after some analogy, that this too becomes a default state obligation. However, that these obligations should not be too much, I hope that it is clear to all of us that we will not be co-financed from the budget forever. And that our goal should be to have a pension box with these exceptions, which we have mentioned in our own laws, in short, a military pension and another thing to find, with these exceptions will be sustainable on its own and with the contributions that the working-age generation will contribute. This active generation, at least part of it is now retiring rapidly, as we have heard, perhaps in a graphic way, said the colleague Presecnik. This generation is now saving its rights in its own way. There are many of these generations and groups that are saving their rights in their own way. I think it is the most problematic one that has not yet entered the labour market at all, but it could have been a long time ago, which is active. But it does not contribute to this pension fund and saves, as has been said, these rights in its own way, perhaps by calculating what Cukjat has presented, or by some other form of life insurance that many colleagues of Germič have talked about, or by investing in real estate or something else. I'll be honest myself. My job in the National Assembly is my first job. I have so far resolved my social rights in my own way, with full responsibility. I knew what I was doing. And it seemed smarter than I had done — that I did not contribute to this social treasury because I did not have a feeling. And I'm still going to need someone to convince me that I'm going to get some benefits. And I think it's actually this right for each of us to decide whether we want to take care of our own age or not. In fact, we should be kind of respected. Although now that all benefits have been paid, this will no longer be the case. Which, of course, can mean that the grey economy will indeed rise. But I think there are actually more important measures in the grey economy than those we are talking about today. Therefore, to whom this reform should most hurt, we have already said. But I also think it's important to whom the current situation as it is. This generation that I've been talking about, which should only be included in the labour market, is not. Thus, when we talk about the weaknesses of this proposed pension reform, we must also have the current situation before our eyes, which is in no way good/rozen and we cannot be satisfied with it. In the Coalition DeSUS, a lot of attention was paid to the problem of wage coordination and pensions. There was also a lot of talk about lowering standards. At the same time, I am glad that my colleague Urh spoke honestly. It's a relative decline in the standards of pensioners. It's a relative drop in the amount of pensions relative to wages. It's not an absolute fall. Some standard, of course, remains. But it is important to be aware that we are dust and return to dust and it is illustrative to expect that the standard in retirement will be the same as the standard during working hours. That's not how it works. There's nothing without it. Therefore, it is necessary to know that a standard in retirement may be high due to acquired property or due to smartly loaded assets during work hours. Of course, you know how many of us, and I assume that even of the other citizens and citizens, now he thinks about his pension and saves in the third pillar and pays some life insurance and is counting on him to get that additional standard that he would like later on with the pensions from these voluntary insurance. But very little would be good if that were the case. Just a pension from the second and first pillars is not to be expected. Especially because of what we have been able to hear from our colleague, Potrate, but the social hat is not wanted here. So it is not to be expected that only the pension from the first and second pillars would guarantee the standard that someone was used to during their work, so to speak, periods. The highest pensions are limited and seem to remain. It's interesting that we talk a lot about this Swiss formula. I'm not quite sure we all know what this is about. Since 1991 the Swiss Confederation has taken care of itself and its citizens and is probably more experienced in this area than our young country. And perhaps the solutions they have written down in their own legislation are well founded and thoughtful. And the results of this long, centuries - old experience that we do not yet have can therefore be learned from the mistakes of others. It is important to ask why pensions should be aligned with salaries at all, but if they are pensions, not social transfers, but the right from the past work, why would the generations who are retired participate in the economic growth of the present generation, which has been educated, which can work more, for longer, which has other living conditions, in short create some economic growth on the basis of which they raise wages. However, a generation that is retired did not contribute to this, but could still participate if, when it was still active, it invested some capital and could benefit from the nobility of that capital at the time of economic growth. Of course, that's why the Swiss, who are smart people, said, "We'll give half for inflation, and half will be for wage growth." That's a smart, blue deal. Whatever it may be, I am looking for the right word that I will not, in fact, be even offensive, arrogant, because we must not allow ourselves to be at the expense of a slight increase in the relative standard of current pensioners, neglecting things that are still important for the future. What was mentioned, however, may be saved at the expense of unnecessary investments. The question is, which investments are unnecessary for generations to come. Practically all investments are important. Of course, we may not agree on whether at this point it is more important or better in 10 years, but in one long-term perspective 20, 30 years. There's probably no investment that wouldn't be necessary. Now we can say, TES 6, JEK 2, wind power plants, they are all, for 50 years, probably all important and important. Therefore, I think it is premature to say with one hand that at the expense of unnecessary investments it could be done. Of course, we could ensure current social peace, but is that our goal? That would be, I think, too short. So I don't think there's any reconciliation between wages and pensions by any kind of 80, 20, 70, 30 or any other defence logic, I don't think. The Ministry has already laid down a method of coordination for my taste in one way or another. But it is to be understood that, given the experience we have, it is so much more than that that I would think too much. In the end, I'd like to express some other concerns that I'm likely to be lonely about. This pension reform still preserves gender discrimination. Of course, it's a positive discrimination against the female sex. Although I don't understand how this would work in accordance with our constitution, which prohibits sex distinctions. I would like to add, of course, that this positive discrimination may well be an excuse for negative discrimination in other areas. It is too much to expect that men will take up their part in family and other obligations if we always carry information somewhere in small brains that our partners will go two, three, or not know how many years earlier to retire. In short, I think it's the sword of the court, and even abroad, there are actually objections to it, and it's on the part of women who want to work longer, and employers prefer to retire. Their male colleagues, of course, can work longer and also provide a slightly higher pension. Finally, I would say that it is necessary to have a genuine view of this law in front of all generations. Now there are 90 in this House, one of us is under 30 years old, and we can count on the fingers of both of us, who are under 40 years old. Most of you sitting here are between 40 and 60 years old and you feel, of course, that you are the ones who will be most affected by the effects of this reform, taking away some of the rights already acquired and so on. What's normal and what's human is that everyone thinks of their own case that they know the most. I would ask you, colleagues and colleagues to think of your children, of your grandchildren, to put yourself in their roles, to think about when you were as old as you were when you received the benefits of the social state from those countries, how much you gave for the older generations, and on that basis, of course, you can also figure out what the generations that are coming will actually be giving to you, actually now, in the future. I think it will sometimes be different than it would be if we persisted only in our own example. Of course, it is necessary to know what was said in the beginning, that the "generation of baby boom" after the war is now retired. Just like I explained before. Most of you here are members of this generation, and of course each of us will have to ask ourselves honestly if there will be a referendum, and even more so. Have each of us done enough to expect as much as he expects? Have we all had enough children to see the current demographic picture as it is? Have we worked long enough, contributed enough? I don't think those answers can be easy. I'm not even afraid of a referendum decision. She'll give me clear confirmation on one thing, either I stay or I go. For I am my three children, who also have Dutch citizenship, where the pension system is otherwise regulated, we cannot impose a burden that is too heavy for them. I loaded it myself as much as I could. In four years I have increased the number of future and current taxpayers of this country by four. My partner, a dual citizen, moved here, back home, and we have three children in four years. I can't do more than that. And I imagine that I can do a lot of things, and that's why I don't expect anyone else to work anymore. That is why, of course, I will support this pension reform, which also shares the burden of the social state in the area of pension policy in a transparent way compared to the previous one and, above all, in a fair manner compared to the current system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u113	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u114	Good-bye! Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary, Dear Fellows and Fellows! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been saying all the time that the country is at a crucial time when reforms that are certainly not liked are absolutely necessary and they stabilise the functioning of the country for a long time, and in the wake of the labour health reform, pension reform is certainly one of those that is urgently needed in this country. And so far, as with everyone else, we all agree. But sometimes we have a feeling when we start preparing these reforms, and no one agrees with anything else. We think there is a big problem in our society that the lack of one general trust is all. Trust in the future, and in particular lack of positive information in the area of the economy, in the area of the development of society, because only a successful economy with a future-oriented economy is one that can also benefit from these expenditure that needs to be spent in the public sector. We all agree that the approach we have based on intergenerational solidarity is correct. I know the example of an American pensioner who lived very decently until 2008 with the savings he accumulated through his life. Since then, he has been driving taxis in the city, otherwise it would have been difficult to survive, given that his funds have also collapsed into dust as a similar system in the economy and financial institutions in particular. It is also true that what we have heard today is as much as a quarter of the pensions paid from the state budget and that the trends ahead speak and call for the necessary reform. We in the People's Party have taken this reform seriously. They also wrote down seven comments that our Group Leader, Mr Preseknik, made very clear. A number of concerns have been heard today and also in the public debate. I am convinced that, above all, there must be enough wisdom in us who are in Parliament, and also in the wider Slovenian public, in order to be able to extricate those necessary corrections, to make these edges somewhat dirtier, as the Minister has said, or as the President of the Government said yesterday, to bring it down a little bit and actually make the law so that it can be avoided today. For in a few years, the burden will be much more severe than it is today. Let me repeat once again that it seems totally unacceptable for us not to accept this whole comment, which speaks for mothers, that for every child these eight months, two years for three children. And that there should be no restrictions here, and that is what we are going to insist on. I think it's very right, because we all agree that more than being a citizen and citizens, it will be easier to have all the cashiers we need in the country. We certainly want to remain indisputable and also clear that even if state pensions withdraw from this pension scheme within the framework of the budget, which we have already said is already funding a quarter of the pension fund today, that all the rights acquired are maintained, and that on the other hand, this law also does not affect the rural population which has had major difficulties in integrating into this system in the 1970s and later years. And that the rights actually acquired that have been preserved, as we have said, are less and less each day. And even those who are actively involved in this work are otherwise included in the system today. We think that the other comments are very much in place. Above all, we think it is necessary to make, pour pure wine and have daily views on the contributions paid. Because we see what things happen to our citizens and citizens when they finally do not know what was paid at the time of retirement. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are prepared to have one responsible dialogue in dealing with this law. We hope that together we will all be able to make so much effort to adopt a law that will allow us a stable future and a peaceful age for those to whom the pension is intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u115	Mr Matjaž Zanoskar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President. A respected minister with co-workers! They would be unjust if they did not acknowledge that the applicant has made every effort to make one basis for entering the debate on pension reform. Of course, pension reform is a broad and large, busy project. It is therefore justifiable that there are also many comments at first reading. There are also many comments from the DeSUS Group which we have been able to hear. Otherwise, I see that some of you do not understand our communication about these comments, which I cannot fully grasp because I have too little time. Comments, of course, refer to that controversial formula, which in no way provides for some decent alignment with wage growth, pensions with wage growth. This formula is something that we have already heard today that the pension standard and the pension standard will, of course, continue to fall in this way and calculate this formula further. If someone does not see how the pensioner standard is falling at this point, 53% of those pensioners living on the threshold of poverty today should be on the threshold of their own existence. Then we can see that there is an urgent need in pension reform to ensure that the system is sustainable, not only in terms of the financial situation, but also in terms of the sustainability of the lives of pensioners and pensioners. It is not only because the DeSUS Group, in its comments that we have heard today, advocates for pensioners. We also advocate an active part of the population. And when it comes to raising the age limit and increasing the years needed for retirement, we say that it is not fair and that it is very discriminatory for those workers and workers who work under more difficult conditions of work who will not be able to wait for these retirement years. And this adjustment is, in our view, absolutely necessary. There are many other comments that we made at the time of the drafting of this legislation. And the comments that we consider necessary. And we expect the proposer to take them into account as far as possible. Let this message be clear and clear. Once again, the DeSUS Group and the Democratic Party of pensioners do not give these comments out of the drive of popularity, populism, but gives for one purpose, a very sincere and very fair contribution to the formation of pension reform in such a way that it will be sustainable for the state, so that it will be sustainable for those living on an existential minimum or on the edge of poverty, to be sustainable for the active population as well. One who is employed or who works under such conditions. We know that it is absolutely necessary and will have to be accepted. However, accept, the proposaler, also a clear message, unless our comments, at least those of vital importance, are taken into account, then you cannot possibly expect to support the entire legislation you are presenting today. Time's enough. There is also a great deal of readiness on our part. And I believe with yours. I am confident that we will find common points in the debate on this reform further, that we will also find compromises, that we will form a reform as we think it must be and as it is. In our opinion, sustainable for all, for the country, for pensioners and also for employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u117	Mr. Sylven Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The applicant explains that this is the first phase of amendments to existing pension legislation which would come into force on 1 January 2011. We are all aware that marriage is necessary, but adopted in a way that will satisfy workers, unions and pensioners. We cannot afford unilateral decisions. They don't bring long-term results. The bill must already be drafted in a way that does not put pressure on the participants in the process and raises doubts about harmful and unilateral intentions. There is probably no smarter answer than to take into account the calculation of 40 years of working time and paid contributions to the pension fund. Otherwise, the difference in the lower pension base will be corrected by a new higher dose percentage. Thinking out loud about the increase in pension expenditure reflected in the long-term by the collapse of the budget is just speculation and misleading. This is certainly a problem for the country today, which is not the fault of those who have worked for 40 years and more honestly and paid in a pension fund in good faith that their money is good for the people and that the State is the guarantor for the payment of their funds for the purpose of paying pensions when necessary. Now it appears that the pension fund has been mistreated and unintended. If these people had invested in the third pillar for 40 years, including life insurance, their third age period would certainly have been more carefree. But these people missed their train. For young people, though, consideration should be given to what is better. If pensions were to be aligned with wage growth in a situation like today, in the case of 100,000 unemployed people, it would be safe to allocate 20.6% of GDP. In the event of half-time coordination with wage and cost increases, around 17.9% of GDP. However, if pensions were to be aligned with price increases, pensions would only increase by 4.4 percentage points by 2060, which is 15.6% of GDP. However, the situation will certainly change when the ratio of those who are active to those who are retired changes to the benefit of the employees and unemployment will be just a story from the past. Until then, it is necessary to ensure an exit that will satisfy those who manage pensioners with funds. Look, we talk about population ageing all the time and how these pensions are going to bury us. We are not saying enough about how we will raise the economy, employ all the workable potential and fill the pension fund. It's 40 hours today. Once it worked for 48 hours, which amounts to more than six years in front of 40 years of work today. And that's what no one's saying is that the money invested in the pension register was bloody well worth it. And today these people would just get their pension. And if anyone lived to an honorable age, it would be cleaned up. I believe that 40 years of working time is the right starting point. In short, people need to be given work and earnings, and the rest is self-evident. We cannot and cannot afford that contributions are not paid to pension workers who find out when they retire. The State has all the instruments to ensure compliance with the legislation. It must not happen that the State gives silence for non-payment of contributions and, on the other hand, distorts the rights already acquired only to ensure the sustainability of the system. In short, the situation we have is not the workers' fault, but those who managed the pension fund. Age is certainly appropriate for someone who will start working at 25, 30 or even at 37 years of age, as I know some. Because most of these 40 years of work will not work at all and will pay for the pension fund. Therefore, it is unfair for those who have worked for 40 years to force themselves into something they have already done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u119	Mr. Svetlik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u120	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Much has already been said, and let me explain something also in the light of the questions and proposals that have been made in this debate. First of all, as far as the calculations are concerned. Many calculations were made.They were sent and I hope you all got everything. I'm not quite sure, because I sensed it in the debate as if some of them hadn't come to you. If not, they are also available on the Ministry's home page. They are accessible to everyone. I would point them out because they were made at macro level by seeing the effects of the proposed pension reform on the pension fund, in particular the gross domestic product and its share in the financing of pensions or public expenditure and so on. And of course also on a micro level, these were made last, mainly to show what the proposed modernisation of the pension system means for individuals, for their pensions. They were made in the population of all pensioners in 2009. So they're accessible to you. I am sorry if someone has not seen them, because we have done this with the aim of checking whether we have really measured the instruments of this pension system well, given what this means for the individual who will be retired in the coming period. And these calculations show, as I have already indicated, that the pension under the new system will be higher by at least 2%, compared to the lowest income categories if we maintain today. And that's not something that we could trouble you with unless someone digs into this calculation and finds a mistake. We didn't, and we believe the experts who did it to do it well. Furthermore, this leads us to a question on which we are discussing a great deal, around the level of pensions. And the claim that because of the new pension system, the new pension law, then the population of pensioners and those who are yet to be retired will be completely at a disadvantage or, as some say, will be impoverished. This is simply not true in these calculations. To make it easier to understand when calculating the amount of the pension, three factors are taken into account; the first are actually years to calculate the pension base, which we extend in the proposal from eighteen to forty-four. In fact, the impact of this extension is negative. This means that the pension base is reduced, but at the same time the pension calculation is also affected by the dose percentage we place on 80% and will be fixed and will no longer be reduced to 72.5%. And we also fix the so-called equalization factor to 0.755, which can affect and actually affect early pensions today, on the reconciliation of pensions, by reducing them. And the effect of all these three factors gives the result that we are talking about higher pensions compared to the existing system. Of course, if we are now changing the values of these parameters, if, for example, we are seeking to shorten the period on which the pension base is calculated, then it is clear that pensions will be increased on this account, so that the amount of pensions in this account will increase. At the same time, however, we must not forget that this also means a higher cost for the pension fund. This is our second goal to make this cash sustainability so that we can provide permanent financing for pensions to all who are entitled to them. And so, of course, they have an impact on both of these objectives, on the sustainability of the pension fund, and in particular on the level of pensions, including other proposals that revolve around in this circle. To introduce a different formula of coordination to introduce ratings for the military, for parenthood and so on. Of course, there can be a lot of these proposals. However, each such proposal entails a certain cost, a fixed higher expenditure on the pension fund. And here we must ultimately weigh what will be the result, whether we will achieve both goals at the same time. This is our agreed objective, in fact, and we are committed to this and, of course, with individual proposals, we can act like it, but of course, the question is whether we will be able to achieve the goal. We will now further assess these objectives financially, which means that these measures will be further evaluated as proposed by individual applicants. And, of course, in the course of the debate, they also said exactly what is meant by changing the value of one and the other parameters in this system that we are proposing. Among other things, the assessment, which is a grave that is not accurate, but your sense of debate, I can say that if we shorten the period for the calculation of the pension base for five years, it costs us about 180 million at the annual level. This is the order of magnitude of these individual factors that affect both objectives. And on the basis of such evaluated possible different parameters, we will also be able to continue this discussion. The second thing to hold on to is the question that we often open up, how many more applications for retirement have been made recently because the system is changing. In 2009, 13 000 650 were retired in the first nine months. In 2010, in the same period, 14 thousand 700 are retired, amounting to a thousand 50 more. Talking about an enormous increase is inappropriate because it does not. We've got the data in front of us. So it's not true that they would trigger some kind of wave that's unsupervised or something. But it probably monitors any change because people think and think about what suits them more at a given time. The time accumulated in the past, which was also a question, is taken into account. He's not going to take this marriage away. It's not taking away this new system. What was paid is acquired forever. Why can't self-employed people retire full and only partially? There are two statuses that are excluded and we cannot be pensioners at the same time and at the same time be employed or self-employed. Part-time retirement, half-time either one or the other employee or self-employed, or possible and given as one of the opportunities for a gradual transition to another status. The question was also raised with regard to equal levels of contribution for employers and employees. That's probably a legitimate question. However, the following should be said if we were trying to establish the previous situation, when the rate of contribution was also higher for employers, then we estimate that in these circumstances it is not opportunistic, that it is not possible to raise additional labour costs which are already among the relatively high, if some claim to be the highest in the European area, which would have an impact on the economic competitiveness and also on the opportunities that we give to the medium-sized youth generation, which must then bear so much more costs, and so much less on the resources for development investments. In our view, this would be irresponsible in terms of the situation of the economy. Of course, if these two contributions were to be settled, which is a legitimate issue, it should be said that the current basis for determining the pension is calculated only from the payment of the employee’s contribution and that the decline or reduction of that contribution would then also have an impact on the amount of the pension. So we haven't decided at the moment to change this way, i.e. the contribution rate or not in absolute height, not in proportion. The question is, how do we imagine the work of the elderly? However, there is a great deal of misunderstanding in interpreting the effects of this law on the work of the elderly. I would like to point out that those well-known stories about how a natural worker, builder or any other worker in production will not be able to work until the age of 65, are incompetent because, as a rule, he started working before the age of 20 and will be a woman with 43 years of age or 41 years of retirement long before he was 65 years old. If someone starts at 20 years of age, they'll get enough retirement years at 63 years if, of course, they didn't have interruptions so they can retire normally. If he started working 20 years ago, he could have retired earlier. In addition, as we say, we offer these categories of people who are older, who are losing their workforce, other opportunities. I mentioned a partial retirement earlier. If eight hours of work is too much, it may be six hours easier to work, it may be four hours easier. And this is one of the possibilities that this system offers. So, a partial retirement. For the most demanding jobs, we still have a mandatory additional occupational insurance in the occupational pension scheme for all those working in specially exposed areas of work. At the same time, we have adopted, and the Government has already approved an active ageing strategy that specifically aims at adapting jobs, changing the practice of employers. We are also working hard to protect workers at work and health care. Active employment policies target the older population to a large extent. In preparation and now it will also be confirmed by the Government's proposal, which is also a proposal for tax relief for those who invest in the second pillar, additional tax reliefs. Labour legislation is being prepared and will be amended. Measures against black work, including the amendment of the law, are also being prepared. Specific measures are being prepared for this most vulnerable population and, of course, parallel measures to support the pension and disability insurance system after the new. Nor is it true that it would not be possible to acquire a retirement age. 5 years of retirement can be bought up at any time. Nor is it specified on the basis of what this sum can be made. Many times in these discussions are mentioned the possibility that for those who have only a few years to retire, a special regime may be adopted so that, as it is said, they can retire after the next five years. This, ladies and gentlemen, means a five-year suspension of pension reform, nothing else. This does not mean just a five-year suspension of pension reform. But it will also take five years to introduce much more acute conditions, shorter transitional periods if we are to achieve the same goals that we are now setting, if we choose to do so. There won't be time, as we have it now, for a transition. During this time, we may then be faced with additional intervention laws that will allow us to patch up an existing system that is difficult to operate today. This is also seen in the preparation of budgets for the coming period. At this time, they will fall further, as some say, low pensions, because the existing system has an built-in mechanism for additional pension drop-outs. During this time, we will raise the acute issue of credibility in the domestic space, as well as in the international space, where we are also very closely monitored as to how we deal with these processes. Pension reform is one of them too. Why is the contribution being raised, so that we deviate from the contribution to self-employed persons, from the lowest contribution which is now a contribution from the minimum wage and will be gradually changed in order to make a contribution of at least 60% of the average wage? First, I would say that this process will be gradual, starting only in 2013 and then after 2 percentage points until we reach 60%. Today we are at about 50% of the average wage. Simply because 60% of the average wage, i.e. the contribution from this salary, is the minimum basis that ensures that the minimum minimum pension is paid. Otherwise, we subsidize the pensions of all those who pay less than that. And there aren't so many of these in the system today. The invalidity that was exposed, why are we shutting it down? We do not abolish the rights of disabled persons in the field of pension and disability insurance. These rights are in the present law, only in this law, at least eight, to professional rehabilitation, to transfer, to shorter working hours, to temporary compensation, to disability benefits. Even if the employment relationship has been interrupted by a person of his own volition, to a partial refund, until the retirement period due to disability or personal circumstances and until the payment of contributions by the Republic of Slovenia. All these rights remain in the system. Disability, however, is something that has been introduced as a kind of rent for some individual’s physical weakness in monetary form. We believe that the issue of these problems that some people have because of, in addition to providing them with adequate disability security, must be addressed through a disability protection system with special measures to enable people to be integrated into the normal living and working environment. Not only do they get 50, 100 euros a month because they have some physical flaw that they've been given during their lifetime. Why is a study not considered a working age? Because he doesn't pay contributions. Because at that time an individual was financed from public funds because he acquired adequate knowledge, which also led to a higher salary after his employment. This was a public investment in his working ability, in his competence and, of course, he directly benefits from it. At the same time, it must be said that [[advertising from the hall]] also public interest. Of course it is a public interest, but as a result, the individual also receives compensation usually in the form of higher wages. At 65 years of age, someone who has studied normally will also be 40 years of age if he is a male pensioner. If she's a woman, 38 because she got a job at least 25 years old. Of course, if you postpone your studies, of course, these years will be much less for the retirement period. An example of a calculation that circulates on the grid is how it would be if someone invested in a bank instead of investing in pension insurance. Of course, it is challenging, it is interesting in its own way, but it is no more interesting than to ask ourselves why we are then protecting our houses, but rather not putting money into the bank, so that if something happens to us in this life, we can finance our own apartment if our house is burned down or carried away by floods or something like that. The pension scheme is simply an insurance system in case it doesn't work out according to our plans, so we don't experience 60, 65 years in full power and work all the time. And, of course, there's a system, a flow system. The wrong interpretation that has been heard today in this debate is that we invest and then someone with this money controls, saves, deposits, profits and the like. All the money that's being paid today goes to their pensioners tomorrow. It is not a question of how this money was managed. Why there is no NDC system yet, a question has been asked. At the starting point of preparing a new pension, we said that the second phase was conceived as a phase in which we could go in this direction. At the same time, however, we have warned that the establishment of such a system takes at least 15 years, and more, before such a system becomes operational. At this time, however, we need to maintain the existing system in proper condition. Since the situation has become so acute so far that the existing system is not in condition when we can guarantee the normal payment of pensions, we have, of course, decided that we must strengthen the existing system first so that it can hold back until we may get into a different system that will also guarantee different payments and rights from the pension system. That's a simple reason. And if we are able to agree together to complement the existing system, to modernise this system, then we have the opportunity to start preparing for the new system even further. It's a matter of social dialogue. I initially said that we had a social dialogue. If we counted the number of meetings that did not necessarily reflect the quality of this dialogue, there were dozens of them not to mention a specific number. And what's symptomatic in this dialogue is that we've watched to look at the same numbers, the same calculations. We don't have any alternatives. All the social partners we have had/have before us the same calculations, but apparently, we understand differently. We agreed on the same objectives, but there are differences between us in the actions. There are differences in measures. Why? Because, if I may paraphrase, it is a matter of having an individual group represented by individual social partners present an account to another group. And social dialogue is intended to ultimately lead to an agreement. We are also committed to this in advance, and we will continue to make every effort to reach such an agreement. And here is the question: Have we divided the burdens among individual groups fairly or not? We believe that these burdens are relatively distributed. But each group, of course, feels somewhat disadvantaged and would like to see a greater burden elsewhere. And if I personally answered the question which group will bear the greatest burden, I would say that it is inevitable, almost inevitable, that the greatest burden will be borne by a group that will retire for the next 15 to 20 years. Inevitably, there are changes during this time. Of course, younger generations will have nothing better, but they have more time to adapt to the new situation. We cannot promise them that then the conditions for retirement can be lessened. They only have more time to adapt to this system. However, what we are doing and in this proposal we have been trying to determine is that we should not burden these middle generation and especially the younger generation in advance. That we do not follow the path of an insufferable pension fund that increases public debt. And this debt, of course, is the burden of all the middle generation and especially the younger generation for the future. Increasing the contribution rate would also mean the same for the middle and younger generation. And we just don't want to do that and we don't hope to propose it. The youngest generations, those who are older, who will retire in 15, 20 years, are likely to face many challenges that we do not know today. One such challenge will certainly be another pension reform or a change in the pension system, which is likely to need to be prepared at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u121	Mr Laszlo Göncz has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We came at a time when, in the broadest sense, it is necessary to honestly consider the most important solutions to the quality of life of human society. I'm afraid that's not the case today. And in the future, it is likely to be even less than we have anticipated in the last decades of the 20th century. In particular, demographic trends are moving in a direction that makes us all think seriously about important substantive issues. This clearly includes the system of pension and disability insurance. It must be clear to all of us that, in addition to some other duties, the care of older generations is the mirror of all society. Today, there are similar systemic issues in the area of pension systems on the agenda in many European countries. There can be no doubt that we also had to go to Slovenia. The proposal for a system law offers solutions that are largely appropriate and hopefully also sustainable. However, concern is alarming and it is not fortunate that there is no greater consensus with the social partners in such an important system law. This, in my view, also imposes on the Government and the legislator at this stage, so also on us Members, that we upgrade some of the most questionable solutions. It is also true that most comments are interpreted in a way that has not changed significantly over the past years. This is sometimes used in cases where, in terms of negative stereotypes, they put the whole effort to improve the system into a bad light that is directed at pensioners and some other groups of Slovenian society. I'm sure that's not the case. I believe that, as far as possible, client and other political interests as well as other partial aspects should be abandoned in this matter. The approach of trade unions, which I personally highly respect and appreciate, should also be expressed in broader dimensions. It must be clear to all of us that it is simply about all of us. So for us, now alive, for our parents, especially children, and to a certain extent also for the craftsmen. It's probably not possible to come up with an ideal solution. However, it is necessary to try to reach the highest possible consensus. I am sure that the law under consideration will also need to be amended more quickly than anticipated. Among the most pressing solutions to the proposed law can be seen as an increase in working time in retirement. In view of demographic trends, this is undoubtedly necessary. However, there may be some possibilities for a more precise definition of the system, which brings a more acceptable solution to certain groups working in disadvantaged situations or where the nature of the work is specific. I also carefully reviewed analyses, various analyses, an assessment of the effects of the proposed law prepared by the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana. Much is beautifully illustrated in this and is also a more understandable matter. At the same time, I believe that the proposal for a law at this stage is suitable for further consideration and that the most pressing issues in the framework of the parliamentary procedure should be upgraded. I think it's a common desire. My final support for the law will also depend on us being successful on certain issues concerning this upgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u123	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u124	What a lovely greeting to all in attendance! The concept of pension reform, where does it take us? It's easy to be against, I'd say. But it's hard to offer real alternatives. It's no secret that as a Member, I also consulted the unions. Interestingly, this time the unions came forward with positive proposals and not only protested and lamented the situation of pensioners. We all agree more or less that there is a need to increase work activity. But in what way? But here's the difference. Why do I view the proposal of the Free Trade Unions Alliance as a positive proposal? Basically because it comes from stimulation to increase work activity and does not include blackmail. So in longer activities using incentives. This is this fundamental baseline difference. What are the little ones other than coerced? Is it the right way to force people who can no longer work to prolong full activity or to be punished? Those who can't do it will retire despite a small pension. What, then, is the objective of the malus other than financial targets? But the little ones are also actually unjust. Pensions have been lagging behind on average for years now. Artificially complicated coordination systems, when finally we can translate them, decipher them, mean nothing more than reducing pensions. The DeSUS proposal, which talks about coordination under the so-called Slovenian model, also means a long-term backlog of pensions. Maybe just a little slower than the so-called Swiss route. Under-average pensions are already at the threshold of social security. In fact, the actual retirement age is very comparable to that of countries in Europe, some over one-and-a-half years. There is no difference in other countries. It's a comparison with Germany. According to the data, 65% of Germany and Germany opt for early retirement, but something is different. Otherwise, it is to receive a smaller pension of thousands, thousands or two thousand euros or to take a hundred euros from someone who receives just over four hundred euros. This is a significant difference, and so the percentage of Germans retire early. But with us, they'll only retire under duress. Calculations, malus: 18% will put recipients on 300-eighty euros a month. And what will such a pensioner offer his grandson? Walking down the Tivoli, it'll take some saving for ice cream. And that's the end of it if we're cynical. The walk is healthy, and too much ice cream is no use. Lifetime, we've heard that from year to year, even monthly calculations are how many hours are going on, but linearly this is not going to go on forever. Another piece of information. Industrial workers die from data from the European Union six years before the average of other industries. But there's not enough industrial workers. Are we going to save money by moving away from the retirement age? This is this insurance principle of logic, especially at the expense of those who will end their lives prematurely and will no longer be recipients. For life’s time will not rise linearly, as predicted, especially in the state of the health system, which is also becoming increasingly bad, which enclesses and pliers of justice and also mutilates, which shortens which life. The health system, as predicted, will strengthen the pension fund if we are a little cynical. This may be an example of synergies between the two systems. So, for all those in working life, let's put in place a system of bonuses, incentives. Incentives may be at the level of an individual who, by extending his employment, would thereby raise his pension base at the company level. An employer willing to include a worker over 40 years of working time would have more favourable tax rates. Stimulations, and possibly partial adjustments to contributions, would be used to resolve cashiers rather than small ones. Every time there was talk about reforms, government pianists were dramatic about measurements. Let's face it, what happened 10 years ago is going to happen. In fact, most of the time, the pension fund itself covered expenses. Moreover, in certain years even filled the budget. Already in the first reform, shock therapy for the public has been dramatic, as if the pension system will collapse completely at any time. So some of Friedman's spirit comes to Slovenia, not just after Naomi Klein's movie. In fact, we could basically maintain the current conditions for retirement and, with positive incentives, maintain, prolong work activity. That's my point of view. It is unacceptable, however, that pensions, which are already low in one way or another, continue to be reduced by singing reform. I cannot vote for such a starting point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u125	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Secretary and Fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! In the debate just before this, Mr Minister, I fully agree with you. The only conclusion is that if such a law is passed, a generation that will retire in 10 or 15 years will suffer. I agree with this, but of course it does not mean that people, those who will retire for a month, two or three after the adoption of this law, or when they are to enter into force. For even now there are many things that can be heard to retire from the old law in three months. After a new one, if it goes into effect, it will be three years. It means these jumps are certainly reckless. With you, Mr Minister, in no way do I agree that the highest priority right now is to change the pension system or the law in the way it is implemented. I agree with you, everyone agrees. People buy that thought slowly, too. This is also passed on to people in the subconscious that it will be necessary to work longer. But at this point, some other priorities would be more important, which would also keep the pension system more sustainable than it is. Certainly, if some of the changes in the law were to prevent as many abuses as they are in your department, let's say in social transfers, even now this singing law of yours on subsidisation of working time. I don't know if you have data on how many abuses have been committed here and how many millions of euros have probably gone unjustifiablely into the hands of those who are least needed. Similarly, if all those who did not pay the contributions, all these companies, from Vegrad to all those we know to pay for, the situation would be significantly different. And here I think it's a priority we should take first. In doing so, the pension system or this law should be prepared more moderately, with more social dialogue than it is now. And then we would probably eventually come up with a proposal that would be acceptable to at least some extent for everyone. The opposition would probably have given a lot of good ideas, but we were, of course, excluded here. And today we are faced with the fact that I do not know anyone to support this law. When I looked at the list in our computer network, when making amendments, it was for one side of different important institutions, social partners, from trade unions to trade halls, to various disabled societies, businesses, everything. Truly, see, no one can trust your assurance that this law is good or that it can be improved. It is impossible to improve such a law, such a proposal. If anyone has listened, however, I hope that if someone has not listened to the magnetogram of Dr. Tsukati, where he represented the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, where it is very understandable, he has illustrated where the systemic contradictions that cannot be pursued in this bill are. No such amendment will be acceptable in order to get rid of these things. So probably the concept itself was flawed, wrong. Above all, social dialogue has not been taken into account here. Still, you can say a hundred times, you've been talking for a year. But if we're always talking, I say so, and whatever you say, one year from now, we're in the same position, it's not social dialogue for me. And it was said here today that the unions were tolerant enough, patient enough. We know why. If it were another government, it would probably be much worse, but it's not that important right now. Today, some debaters heard a fine expression of this law: that it is a matter of modernizing the pension law. Let me translate this into a language that everyone will understand what this modernisation means. That means we'll work longer and have lower pensions. It's a literal translation. It will be difficult for you to convince me, Mr Minister, with those calculations that the existing pensioners will have pensions or that they will keep them the way they are now, and that those who will retire or who will retire will be missing for a few years to have a higher pension than they would otherwise have. Because on the other hand, let's say your data, if I wrote it correctly, you stated that if the average of 34 years per 29 year would have been reduced by 5 years, the average of the base would have been reduced from 34 years to 29 years in order to make this annual outflow of 160 million euros less into the pension register. Then it would be hard to understand that those facts of yours hold up. I agree with that. We must provide existing pensioners with at least this level of pensions, if not higher. That is why I am very surprised, I can say that I was appalled when my fellow Member from the Group of Members really asked himself, and probably all others, why, with what right, the existing pension must be managed by rising wages. With what right, they contributed to the fact that there are no valid reasons. I mean, it's kind of incomprehensible to me, and I wonder where that money went. If he does not know that all those pensioners who have worked for this country in the past are those who can be grateful to them for having what we have. With their work, we have been able to build what we have and to upgrade further. And they paid their contributions fairly, and they paid them fairly. It is indeed the fault of the country, the previous system, that those contributions have gone — we know where — to make completely unwise investments, to other republics in the time of Yugoslavia and even now. A number of investments were also unduly financed from this money. Why, though, is this money not as noble as it is in some developed countries? Then you might say, then, that money that was obtained from contributions somewhere should be noble and preserved from that pension. And then there will also be that formula that Mr. Minister used to wonder, which has already been said, if someone for 30 years instead of paying into a pension account is paid into a bank account, then only out of interest will he be paid a very nice pension. This is exactly where the same system would develop. In addition, I agree, too, that we should give priority thought here, why not clear the existing pension fund with some unjustified pensions or some outflows. I know the case, if anyone wants to ask me, I'll tell him. I know a person. Due to political privileges, she retired at the age of 40 and has the highest possible pension. Today this person is 85 years old. It means that 45 years of political privilege has been granted the privilege of such a high pension all the time. And I'm sure people like that are huge. [[advertising from the hall]] The brigade's probably, yeah. Well, thank you so much for having me here. Then, the next thing I want to point out. I mentioned, it is right that we begin to prepare an intensive "field" to move into some change of legislation and that people will adapt to it a little bit. Especially those who are now about 10, 15 years before retirement or even less. And now that information, Mr. Minister, when you say there was no greater retirement. I firmly believe that without such a panic that reigned among the people, these retirements would be significantly less and that many workers, who would now need it in a particular company, were hunting for the shortest time to retire. I know cases why. And a lot of people asked me, "Let me know when this law will come into force." Everybody's been temping on the 1st. 1. and many would still be willing to work if I believed or if there were not enough of those dangers, that the whole matter would actually be substantially extended. And what else is here, can I say, bad for our society in advance? Look, what message are we sending to our young people?Oh, my God! Even I remember when I graduated from school, I was convinced that I had to work as fast as possible to retire as possible. I went as fast as I could. What's today? You know what young people say? I'm not gonna be able to wait for the pension anyway. They've been studying really, really much longer than they should have. And even once they graduate, they take time to travel. And the age before they start working is significantly higher. Instead of encouraging young people to become specialized in their field by the time they finish their studies by the age of 20 and 25 and to start looking for a tip, an intellectual one, for our knowledge or economy at the age of 30. And that's how they retire after 30 years or later because they know if they come to work, they think, God knows if I'm going to get a pension. And then they're significantly less qualified and motivated to work. And that's wrong, that's wrong. Now, too, what has been said by the coalition's parliamentary groups that this proposal is financially sustainable somewhere. I agree that he will probably be financially sustainable because of some solutions that are not fair. I agree that solidarity must be taken into account. Of course I agree with that. Mostly this intergenerational one, but it has to be fair. With what right will certain matters now be taken out of this law, which has been in force all the time, and some people have invested in it? Therefore, see, such solutions are not good. And I reiterate that even if such a bill is adopted for further consideration, it is never possible to do so with amendments to such content that all those who oppose it can then at least consensus on such solutions. I think that's a bad way to go. And even if there's a referendum, you're probably relying primarily on it because there's definitely a "colorate" of pensioners here, because a bunch of voters are just in a retired population, so that those with some message, if you don't now support such a law, your pensions will be reduced. They're going to fall again, just like they've never been on a flyer like that. But that's not the right solution. I hope that this law, as it is, will be rejected and that it will once again approach the search for solutions that would make this system truly just, sustainable. Above all, that there will not be such rapid leaps that those generations that are now a few years before retirement will not receive such great shocks. So that I alone cannot under any circumstances support this law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u127	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The task that we have today, not only the coalition, but also the opposition and indirectly the social partners through us, is perhaps neither easy nor simple. Firstly, I have never heard anyone say that reform would be necessary. Is it now urgent or very urgent? But no one objects because we are all aware that otherwise it will be difficult to finance the existing system. And because we're all aware that it's going to get worse, but it's not going to improve the pension contingent. We now know that reform is necessary. However, each of us has very different ideas about what it should actually be. Secondly, what makes the decision difficult or, where I understand that it has been difficult to reach the text we have, the fact that the reform covers all social partners, all groups of citizens, young people, employees, self-employed persons, pensioners, disabled persons. And I guess I've forgotten as many of them as I've ever done. And each one of them has a specific interest in his own honest, objective, understandable interests. However, these interests are often not harmonised or very difficult to reconcile. Thirdly, because we are adopting reform in times of crisis and we expect the adoption of reform to help solve the crisis, because the content is extremely difficult. And I would like to see that fellow Member or Member who would say that he understands exactly what is one of the articles, chapters, groups of issues, because they are so interconnected that it is simply very, very difficult and also because everything has to be decided. I think I just counted 429 or 430. This is a short volume that cannot be chewed objectively, except for the greatest specialists and acquaintances. Therefore, it shows all these circumstances to take into account and be tolerant of each other when we talk about the proposal and content of solutions and when we are looking for models, solutions, proposals that please us as much as possible. All participants in the debate, the Government, the social partners, including the opposition and, of course, the coalition in the National Assembly must be aware that merely insisting on some of their own views and interests cannot produce good results. The first question that I would therefore like a common answer to is I have it for myself and it is positive whether the failure to reform would be a shame for all of us. I say that yes and equally harm to the social partners and to the same extent damage to the opposition, not only for the coalition. However, I fear that many of the social partners, as well as the opposition, are not aware of this sufficiently and sometimes do not agree to some solutions that are seemingly bad but are not otherwise possible. The opposition waits a little: "Maybe we will come in line or this law will help you to have even less respect and a little less confidence among people, which is the end of our desire, because it has been a few months since we were ready to listen to you, that it is high time to go out of power, because you are better and you are looking forward to taking power." That's why I'm here all the time, and I'm still here today defending my next position. That reform must be a compromise that is desirable and possible and that it is not possible to solve all problems for eternity with one move. Let us, therefore, take a real look at where the optimal dimension is, including the time dimension that we are able to contain with these reforms, where our desire may be too great. That people must believe that the transition from a valid to a new system will be reasonable and gradual, but that changes are needed. It is therefore necessary to think of them in such a way that people will understand that the burden or gravity of the problems that will arise due to the new system will not affect anyone too much. Simply put, if it is one year, a year and a half, two years, two and a half years, the period that will later enable us to rest, we can talk about it. If we guarantee that pensions will not be lower, but they will be about as high or, as some promise, even higher than I would promise, that they will be equally burden-sharing for all generations, those who are now young, and those who already have pensions, then this can be ensured. Therefore, because I have a limited time, I ask that we try, not so much by the government, to talk about what is necessary, but to say, if we do not do so, this will happen and this will happen badly for the country. I'd rather go the other way. Let's also say what the new pension reform provides to people compared to today's system, which, while few of them, because something has to, otherwise, cannot produce results, it improves results, but in a reasonable way in terms of length of working time, age and entry into retirement, in terms of minorities and bonuses, in respect of respect of certain additional rights such as child care and the like. In short, these things are to be shown in a way that people will understand that this is not actually the fun we are going into, because now many of us want to show the situation even today and only unilaterally in order to show it in a way that makes it as less acceptable to people as possible. I therefore hope that we will succeed with our discussions, but also with discussions from the government side, to say what is the essence of this reform, where are the solutions, not all the details, because no one can solve all the details with one debate, nor with the answer to a few questions that people, including the social partners, would accept. And I think it's fair and just today to point out once again, by which I started, all those who cooperate in this system are also responsible for bringing the system back to life in a good sense, because otherwise we'll all be worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I myself have been very critical of one of the points that we have discussed today, specifically in the excise law, to our Government, mainly because of the excise policy that governs it. This time we have on the agenda a point that is actually ideal for opposition parties, which can be torn apart by demagogism or by populism in practice. And that's not a problem. It is much more difficult at a point like this when we are talking about pension reform, which, I think, is one of the key reforms ahead of this country to be constructive in the opposition. As President of the Slovenian People's Party, I have announced several times that we will be constructive in the key reforms that are important to this country. I think that constructiveness on this issue is still important.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u131	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u132	And it seems to me that many of them who came before me didn't say what they actually meant. I'll say what I mean. And I think that this pension reform needs to be carried out simply. We took her very seriously in the client's office. Prepared some constructive proposals, forwarded them to the ministry, also met with the minister and tried to agree that, through the amendments, these proposals might apply to this pension reform. I hope you understand that you will respect this offered hand. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, pension reform is simply one simple mathematics or, if you want, a mathematical model. A lot of things have been calculated, and the accounts show. Unfortunately, demographics also show that, as the statistical office says in this study we printed, the Population of Slovenia today and tomorrow, the 2008 European Population Projection for Slovenia, which predicts that in 2060 there will be almost 600,000 pensioners. Of course, we can now switch numbers one way or another, I am and there, but we have simply three simple options: whether we increase our contributions to the pension fund. That means we're going to charge our wages to burden the economy. I think it's a disaster. We have another option to reduce our pensions. Who agrees with that? No one in this room agrees that pensions should be reduced. Moreover, in the Slovenian People's Party we are against freezing them. And the third option is the one we're talking about today. So let's tighten up the terms. I don't see any other options. If anyone sees another option, it would be good for him to bring it to the table, for that would be a solution not only for Slovenia but for the whole of Europe. The whole of Europe is dealing with the same problem that we are dealing with here today. We can't and we can't start populism, dear fellows. We can't and we can't. I'd rather hear some criticism today that I might be in favor of this pension reform than in five, six or ten years, someone pointing at me with a finger and telling me, you had a chance, and you didn't do anything. I think there is a responsibility before us, even on this side when we are talking about opposition. I said, it's simple, I'll say, now in the opposition on union support wings this pension reform is practically torn apart. Very simple. But is this responsible for this country? I think it is wrong and it is right that, however, reforms such as this and others will come, despite being critical of the government, to some of the moves, to the rebalancing that is coming, to the excise policy and also to some of them, but in such matters, it is necessary to be constructive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Krizman. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Maybe you could say I'd continue almost where my predecessor ended up. In view of the assessment of the state of the pension system in terms of the impact on the sustainability of public finances at the macro level, on the necessity of pension reform, the latest data, which we all know and know, also show. In that, therefore, during the period when the current pension reform was made, we were all confident that it would last much longer than it would after the current knowledge, according to current data, after current employment and after the current GDP. This is said to last until about 2025 and 2030. But the situation has shown that this reform is likely to stop somewhere in 2020. You'd run into a wall. It's simple, because we wouldn't have gone any further. That is why this reform, the new reform must be adopted and some of the conditions and some of the known information we have in this country must be redefined. Therefore, it would be very irresponsible to put our heads in the sand, borrow money and say, in this country we are doing well, we are all happy and satisfied, we do not need pension reform. Of course, there are still data to be understood, but some deliberately do not want to understand them, because they want everything to be wrong in this country, so that it will be better for them and that a circus can also be launched at the referendum. Of course, for pensions in the final phase, in the final amount, as this story is now going on, up to 13% would come. When we get up to 13% of the planned 11.24, it means that, as the Minister has said today, or I think, even twice or even more, that this reform, which we would start preparing in the next term or beyond, would not give God, after 10 years, would really destroy the pension system with that reform. I'd fall apart because it's simple and simple enough money to do that. And so we should borrow a lot more money or reduce pensions to the extent that pensions actually become a social transfer. I am sure that we are responsible enough not to allow ourselves to do so and that we will step together and accept this reform. As the minister says, she got a little dirt on her edges, something on the board, something else in Parliament. But I am sure that this reform will ultimately be acceptable to all who want to see a complete reform. Not just those three columns that say when we'll retire and under what conditions. Of course, for the age and retirement age or working age we've done somewhere. This pension reform covers much more than just these three pillars. I talked to people a lot and they asked me how and how this reform would end. And I asked them if they had looked at maybe that green notebook that you sent that government sent home, and it was overlooked by a lot, thinking that it was a commercial for some company that advertises salami and everything else, and they're pouring us across the street every day. That is why I would advise that the public should be better and better informed, informed and present to people the actual situation. Presenting what reform brings and why it needs to be adopted right now and why to that extent. That seems very important to me. Thus, politics could have little less to say about what is good and what is bad for people. People themselves need to know what is good and what is bad for them. Politics just has to do it, in my opinion. However, I think it is also one of the most important objectives of stopping this reform from falling pensions. It is said that pensions will remain at 80%, which, following the current reform, which is still in force, will be completely different and our pensions will fall to 72.5% by 2025. If the reform stops at 80%, it means that the pension will no longer fall, as agreed upon when the current reform is adopted. And this is also a guarantee that the pension reform will, in my opinion, be a long-term document. This law will be a long-term document. It will not only be adopted for a shorter period or as some kind of 'fire law'. That's why I think it's very appropriate, and I will clearly support it. In particular, because of all the other components that this reform has. Like I said, not just those three columns talking about when we can retire. And with regard to the claim that hardworking workers will find it very difficult to retire under these conditions. I listened to the minister myself when he explained, and that is what he writes, and we can read about them, and many have been taken care of. And the demagogy that everyone will retire at 65 and half dead will go to work is selling fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam President. What a lovely greeting to the Minister and Secretary of State with a co-worker! I walked through some of the data, even after the 2009 statistical yearbook and found out or figures showed me that the bill before us needs to be supported. Indeed, Europe is old, unlike the rest of the world. Slovenians are getting older just the same. Older populations are increasing as the birth rate in Slovenia is decreasing. As early as 1960 and 1970 in Slovenia, we recorded fertility above the level for the preservation and restoration of the population or the restoration of long-term population. In 1981, the total fertility rate fell below 2.1 per woman, which is still necessary in developed countries for the renewal of the population. In the period leading up to 2003, the total fertility rate declined all the time and in 2003 it was only 1.20. The fertility rate has increased over the last few years and for 2008 and 2009 it is thus 1.53 children per woman. The absolute number of live births also increased, from 21 000 817 in 2008 to 21 000 856 in 2009, much more than in 2003. But far from having any reason to be optimistic, we hear even today in some debates that we have been talking about beibum. Notwithstanding the above, the actual number of children born has decreased dramatically over the last period. If we had 30 thousand 604 children in 1979, this number was reduced to 17 thousand 321 in 2003. However, further exacerbation regarding the number of births will take place in the next three decades, when the number of weaker generations of girls born in the last two decades will enter the age classes, which are largely decided for children, and this is increasing annually. If it was 25, 29 years ago, today there is a period when girls or women decide on their first birth, between the ages of 30 and 40. The data is, as I said, covered in the statistical yearbook. We can all read them and examine them, and of course we can imagine them. And if we compare this with the number of deaths in recent decades, we find that it is likely that changes should be made. Data and facts resulting from the situation of the demographic structure mean a reduction in pensions according to a reduction in the flow of funds to the pension register or a reaction to support the bill, of course with some additions. They mean an increase in the contribution rate for the pension system and the transfer of responsibility to the active population or the proposal, as I said, of the law before us, with corrections. I will insist on two very important content for me, taking more account of the positive discrimination for women, which means the ratings for children in reducing the retirement age for women. The proposal refers to the possibility of enforcement for only three children. But I am opening up initiatives that keep the provision of the old law, so that we can increase the ratings for each child. For by this we also give encouragement to those figures which I have spoken of before. My second support or comment is to take into account the hospital and parental benefits. It is also necessary to maintain the solution provided for in the old law, which provides that the time to receive compensation for the calculation of the pension base takes into account the salary or base from which contributions from the calendar year were paid before the start of the remuneration. In fact, the proposed solution ahead of us will hit the sick most, especially the mothers who are still in this society, Slovenia, most often on sick leave for their children. If I finish, I'm disappointed in the proposal. I’m not exactly optimistic when I listen on television or in the media every day that the law’s procedure or the law before us is inconsistent. And for me personally, the harmonisation of the law by the Government and the social partners should continue. In fact, a lack of harmony here means a once-in-a-lifetime transfer of responsibility. And of course for some of us coordination is listening to each other and not holding a fig in your pocket. That is why I am also joining my colleague, Črnakov, who, in the introduction of the opinion of our parliamentary group, also said that negotiations must continue, as the legislative process is not finally completed and will be completed when the Members have decided to do so. As a result, the active role of the Government and the social partners should still be at the table and agreeing on what is best for all Slovenians. I will insist on the additions I have mentioned, or changes in favour of women, mothers most affected by data and figures. And because of the numbers I mentioned at the outset, I support the proposal for a law because I oppose the reduction of pensions resulting from the non-admission of such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I must say that what we are witnessing today is one moment of serious real policy, because of course we should know that pensioners do not have political colours, that this status for all of us who are lucky is still waiting for us and that, of course, we should overcome political divisions here. I am pleased to discuss the discussions of colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, because they have done garage work at the Ministry, they have highlighted themselves, they have also been intensively coordinated. But the results are, of course, as they can be, miraculous, of course, they cannot be. I think you've done it in areas where it's possible, most of all. Clearly, if we live longer, we will also have to work longer and, of course, extend the pension period accordingly. However, it must be said that, of course, the most difficult professions to complete earlier this age are exempt from this. I am dismayed when I hear some debates and statements that go beyond the limits of solidarity. In this country it was quickly forgotten that we had built schools, kindergartens, sports halls, playgrounds, tunnels, and more. Today, however, this support would be withdrawn and, of course, equivalent to pensions and social assistance. This country is, in one way or another, obliged to make it possible for everyone to survive solidly. Here in the law on pension reform is our solidarity, solidarity agreement of all generations, those who are already at peace, those who are still working, and those who are coming in active time. Of course, I also welcome the measures that are working towards getting Slovenians and Slovenians to work first. And here is the key answer to that question. Young generations need to study more intensively, and it is up to us in the middle to provide them with jobs that are too small at the moment. In this society, we only talk too often about sharing. Not enough about how we can all create more together. And besides this pension reform, the second part of the answer is how to mobilise society to create more added value. And then pension, health and other reforms will be significantly easier and more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. A whole bunch of pretty-sounding words are heard by the coalition, by solidarity, by added value, I don't know what else. After all, no one wonders why this terrible situation has occurred. Are not all the reasons behind the failed management of the pension fund, which began in 1992? But they are not also the causes of thieves’ managers who, with the support or even cooperation of the Government, steal long and fast and destroy Slovenian companies. None of them are closed, of course, not in the process. They'll go somewhere warm, to the south, take the money with them. But our pensioners will pay for it from their pockets. We have a country with an enormous number of social support. No one is released into this social support, nor does it find out where these social support is disappearing, how it is abused and so on. It doesn't matter to the government because it buys voters. No gentleman or lady in the ruling coalition can think of changing the labour law to this extent, so that things can be handled differently so that young people can be recruited in places from which old politically profiled personnel who remain due to their former merits can remain in the jobs of ad calenda graecas until they are carried away by death. Because in some place they get, say, 3,000 euros in wages. If he were retired, he'd only get a thousand euros. Of course he's staying. No one can get him out of here. And so on. You don't want to settle matters in this country because you have a nice, respectable coalition gentlemen. You want to patch up where you know people and pensioners will be quiet. And the Slovenians will be quiet because they're always quiet because they're always bending over and they're always waiting for another whip shot. Of course, you have your allies in the unions who know very well when to bring someone to the streets, whom to bring to the streets, what to tell them, and when to withdraw. Because that's what this is about, is proof that the unions are coming before Parliament. But the government is still doing what it's doing and preparing. On the other hand, as far as the Slovenian government is concerned with its people, it is clear that it was not a problem for Greece to give EUR 400 million. That's not a problem. This is for us – So what! Then to make a guarantee of 2 000 73 million for those countries that will not pay their debts because they are smart, of course they will not, because for them the fools will be "Slovencial", because the government is such and it has done so. So what! On the other hand, we have some such fine customers, called DeSUS, who, through their pension societies, are increasingly becoming exposures to this political party, are actually promising thousands of euros in pensions and are thus making a wonderful success. Fine. And our Slovenian nation is very well-nourished to believe that. I expect that in a short time we will hear from the government, from the Prime Minister perhaps what Mr Erjavec promised that this is nothing: "You will have a thousand 500 euro pension." And of course the Slovenians will believe that, because they always believed in fairy tales. They always believed those stories about a better tomorrow. But it was better yesterday. We need to be aware of that. The way this better tomorrow is handled, but it's completely wrong. It shows the total incompetence of the current government, of ignorance and ignorance. After all, since it's no wonder, except for rare exceptions, the FDV is running this government. And it's mostly led by people who haven't been to another job for one second, which wasn't paid from the budget, from college or immediately into the political spheres, and then to Parliament and then to the government or from college to college and then to the government. Then we wonder why. At the beginning of my term, I said that German proverb, "Drei Professoren, Stadt Verloren". And that's exactly what he's holding. Our country is collapsing. Our country is either disappearing or collapsing and "disappearing". And I'm going to say that you're doing this on purpose, not because of ignorance and stupidity, but mainly because of greed, malice, theft and the like. And people will pay for it. You'll be sharing more money on their backs than you're sharing. We hear every few days how many people can cut bread on fat and what they can build at the expense of everyone else who doesn't even have to eat. I don't know what's gonna happen. It's gonna be bad. I always hope that the Slovenian people will rise up to say something in a different way, not only that they will cry at home and hang themselves and I do not know what they are doing, suicides due to an unsustainable situation. That's what's going on. It's a cover-up. And what does Slovenia do? With its police repressive authorities, they will adopt laws to further pressure these people, not to let them breathe, not to listen to them more than they are already listening to, to push them even harder than they already are. I think we're moving very far from democracy and we're getting closer to that initial phase of fascism.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. As long as life expectancy continues, the age of the population in Slovenia increases by two months each year. More specifically, in 2000, the average age of retirement was between retirement and death, 17 years and 1 month for women and 14 years and 9 months for men. Then 9 years later or more later in 2008, for women 20 years and 10 months and for men 16 years and 4 months. The number of pensions increases over the last decade at 1.5 per year. These include all pensions, old-age, disabled, family, peasants and widows. This is just an illustration of how long the pensioners, who worked for an average of 35 to 40 years, will receive a pension. To put it very simply, for each year of receiving a pension, each must spend a little more than two years on a regular basis. One retired man told me that for the sustainability of public finances he was not needed. This is somehow an artistic perception and the impression of two-year discussions on pension reform, which is certainly necessary. A bitter feeling for the pensioner and also for some others. But we know that pension reform is necessary, and I therefore expect the applicant to make the envisaged changes possible for the period of study and service of the military period. This means that the individual will be able to pay any contribution for the total, not more than five years of retirement. This should be the way in which those who want and are able to obtain the right to count the pension age, including for the period of study and service of military service, whether they have studied or served military service in Slovenia or elsewhere. For me, it is an unseemly fact that the proposed choice of the most favourable consecutive years is 34. And what does that mean? Even the most uneducated is clear enough that this is not a choice. It is a deduction of the initial traineeship years without the possibility of progress. I expect that the final version of the choice will be set at least at 22 or at most at 26 years of the most favourable age. It is also very important to me how pensions will be coordinated, by which formula, Swiss, 60 : 40, 70 : 30, 80: 20. This, of course, is an extreme option, but for which we certainly do not have a calculation. Article 28, which refers to the reduction of the age limit for children. I suggest that a woman's age at which a reduction in retirement is possible due to children is increased by 4 months per year and should start in 2011 at 57 years of age. That's one of the union proposals, I think. The wording of Article 29 relating to the establishment of early retirement provides for the possibility of early retirement from 40 to 38 pension periods, including the accumulated period. I will support the law, because I am aware that the correction and modernisation of the existing system is necessary, but with the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members and others! Not only is the proposal of the law not in line with trade unions that have been very constructive in the negotiations, there are many shortcomings in the bill that almost all Members have pointed out. Only that, in my opinion, they will not be resolved in the next parliamentary procedure. That's what practice says. Which provisions of the bill are the most controversial? It is not true that it is necessary to resolve the current and future financial problems of the pension fund in such an unfriendly manner that this law provides for people. It is also not true that the current and future pensions should be so low for many that people with them could not survive, as the current and new laws do. Employees who don't work in black pay enough in the pension box. However, employers do not pay the same percentage as employees in the pension register. In all European countries except Slovenia, employers pay the same share in the pension allowance as employees. In Slovenia, in 1995–1997 the government reduced the contribution rates for employers from 15.5% to 8.85%. This was done to the benefit of employers and capital and to the detriment of pensioners. This is also contrary to ILO international standards. This proposal by the law of Minister Svetlik, which is, to be stressed, the Minister of DeSUS, does not provide for a gradual level playing field and is disputed in this respect for current and future pensioners as well. I do not agree that the poorest in the country would continue to be the worst affected by any reform of every government since Slovenia's independence. This practice of governments and Members of all colours must be stopped. Many pensions are already too low to survive with. I do not agree with the proposal that widow's and family pensions be substantially reduced. I do not agree that people who have worked for 38 or 40 years could not survive with a pension for this job. I do not agree with the dispossession of the poorest because, due to their low pensions and the need for social security assistance, the State would have taken away the remaining assets. I do not agree with the fact that pastors, grandchildren, children without parents who have died would receive a family pension only if they had monthly incomes below EUR 218. I do not agree with the policy of punishing exhausted people who have worked for 38 or 40 years. The work has not been well done by the government and institutions to protect public property and employees from abuse. By means of this law, workers and pensioners would be deprived of the last bit of self-respect for the benefit of employers and capital. However, I am for the gradual extension of working time, but with temporary and permanent bonuses for work up to the age of 65 or even longer, so that the psychophysical abilities of employees will be taken into account. It is known with what incentives the State can ensure that employers are also employed by older people. I do not agree with the proposed way of coordinating pensions. Today, according to trade unions, 62% of pensioners are expected to receive a pension of less than 600 euros. The proposed coordination would create more pensioners who could not survive with pensions. I do not agree with the proposed immediate extension of the number of years to calculate pensions from 18 to 34 of the best years, because the pension base would be reduced by about 20%, as the unions say, or slightly less, according to some other data. That is why, for the most part, too low pensions would be reduced on average despite the longer working hours. I do not agree with the proposal for a law against positive discrimination against women. Marriage will be the thing that hurts women the most. Child-relief — due to minimum age provisions — women born between 1953 and 1958 could not benefit at all. I don't agree with the new hospital bill because it will reduce the pension for women because the most caregivers benefit women. I do not agree with the bill because the ratio between the average wage and the average age pension would fall below 70%. This is below the percentage recommended even by the OECD. Even though we know how strict the OECD is about these things. I agree with the Mags. A waste that opposes the cap for the most wealthy. And I could also list the shortcomings of the law. This law certainly does not solve the challenges of population ageing and life expectancy. It also reduces solidarity. I wonder who benefits from a bad bill that is unacceptable to employees and pensioners and causes serious social conflicts. Minister Ivan Svetlik, who is the Minister of DeSUS's quota, should, but should not, act in the direction of protecting the employees and social security of the population. The intervention law should immediately remove the possibility of write-offs, deferrals and payment of social and health contributions. It should increase the contribution rates for employers. It should reorganise the Republic of Slovenia's Labour Inspectorate and ensure the protection of employees who are abused by employers. The disputed law certainly benefits private insurance companies, employers, capital and the opposition as well. Dearly beloved, such an important law for the life of all generations should not have come to the National Assembly so uncoordinated, so insolvent, so unjust and so very flawed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my opinion, there is very little doubt about the need for change in the area under consideration. But there were quite a number of concerns to be heard. In fact, I find today's debate interesting that we have the feeling that support is cooling down, but not stepping up. At least that is how many comments and conditionalities made it possible to understand this debate today. However, I think that the debate also showed what the Minister doubted when he felt that perhaps not all the materials had been obtained. I believe they've read them, too. I guess most people understood that. And that's what actually worries. These very sharp findings from various studies are unlikely to be challenged. But it is possible to think about the different responses to what these studies show us. I do not think it is possible to agree to what has been presented by the Minister as a basic alternative, will we, therefore, have a sustainable pension allowance or will we give in to any bonus that has been discussed today, or will we not? If we were to think about having only these two factors, we probably wouldn't be able to change anything else. But I am confident that we need to understand this issue a little bit more, and that if we understand it that way, there is something else to be done. I mean, pensions are being saved in farms. The bonuses and the little ones themselves can't change anything special. In the economy, however, this is resolved by having such an education system in general in society, such a system of study, exploring various centres of excellence and technology centres, and so on, that all of this will enable us to have a higher level of productivity in production and other processes so that we have a greater added value. And if we have two constants and if we have some variables that can be accelerated in favour, as I have just mentioned this, then I think we need to look elsewhere for solutions and that in the debate some bonuses may still be heard from the proponents. The Minister himself said that nothing was so concrete as to make the debate impossible. It's absolutely necessary. Because I am also obstructing the law, even if only by one vote was adopted, it would not be a good marriage. It would probably be a law that would quickly experience severe attacks, and perhaps even attempts to change. In particular, it would not be well received by people, especially those who do not bring bad things to them. However, the law is worth supporting in my judgment, including the possibility of doing so or supporting the continuation of the debate. Later, we will see whether or not any amendments will be adopted so that the law can also be supported. Also because he makes many good decisions. One of these was mentioned by the minister when he talked about not only stopping the decline, but also expecting an increase in pensions from 2% to 18%, I think he mentioned twice today. If this holds, and if this holds true, that the pensions of those who are at the bottom are to be raised more quickly, and slower for those who have very good, high pensions, then that is something worth supporting. But let me warn you, there was one such attempt in the previous term. When I explained to myself that they would not have been linearly reduced or frozen, the response was therefore rather averse, especially from the party that is taking up the protection of older people because they see the conspiracy of the same stomachs in this, czech, and we cannot all live in the same way. Therefore, when I conclude this thinking – and for a very long time, independent and independent Members are not to be debated – I say only the following. Change is necessary. The law, I think, has some good starting points, including some good frameworks, but I think some changes should be taken into account. What I will support when changes are required is the possible enforcement of 40 years, support for positive discrimination against women and support for those who have not been required by their will in the military [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Undoubtedly, the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance is necessary and within these changes we want to maintain solidarity and the sustainability of the pension fund. As far as solidarity is concerned, those who work as long as possible are said to contribute their contributions to the pension fund as long as possible, and of course those who spend as little time on pensions. With regard to the stability of the pension fund, it certainly depends on the work, its value and the contributions paid to the pension fund, as these amendments proposed, which are not fully covered by work, bonuses, minorities and so on. The main source of funds for the stability of the pension fund will always be contributions and, of course, they will never be able to provide enough money for this stability that we want to achieve. That is why I myself agree to Mr Žerjev's debate, which said that there are three possibilities for the stability of the pension register, but I also see a fourth in achieving a fairer division created by raising wages and thus providing enough money for pensions that should not fall. With regard to the coordination of pensions, I am convinced that trading for that relationship is an empty thing, because pensioners as a society are long ago and months before what is being enforced by DeSUS today have already agreed to the formula offered by the Minister and therefore there is only a search for political points here, nothing else, with any other incomprehensible claim that we are responsible for half-coordination of pensions by two independent Members, not the consent of a party, which is, of course, a fabric that is spread throughout the country, but is not real. In all this matter, when the long-term stability of the pension fund is to be achieved, even if it is the right starting point, even if most people think it is necessary to do so, there is a problem at this point in time by the disagreement between those who make the most of the efforts. The active part of the population now sees this change as follows: at low wages for longer working hours they are expected to have small pensions. That's the problem. For this reason, as my fellow Member has said, solutions need to be sought elsewhere to ensure greater income flows to the pension fund in the field of economy and increased value. So creating a new value in a fairer division. The reduction in the percentage of the rate of contribution for the pension fund did not bring any expected jobs or investments. Nor did it produce the relevant results of the fact that we have abolished taxes on wages paid. Nothing happened. All of these economic benefits have increased capital and profits at the stagnation of wages and, as a result, reduced inflows to the pension fund. And all this story of underrated work and employees should now be paid by those who do not at this moment agree with the change. If we postpone the adoption of the law for a few months, we will not lose anything at the time of the announced referendum by the trade unions, because surely the referendum will lead to a one-year delay in its entry into force. I would therefore suggest that negotiations with trade unions continue to reach the minimum consensus that those who will have to bear the most serious burden of solidarity in society, that they themselves may have pensions, agree on changes, at least to the extent necessary to avoid major shocks, for I do not see what the union resistance would look like if it were to follow a model of students, which has happened recently. I must say that with regard to the amendments, I have experienced a poor experience in the small work law and that I do not believe there will be any necessary amendments. That's why I think it's better that this marriage doesn't receive first reading support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Given that this is a really difficult matter, for a demanding law, of course, I leave some solutions to the proponents, the founders of this law, and I simply believe that the solutions have been put forward primarily for the benefit of people, that some of the problems will be resolved and that some things will be better implemented for the future. As a majority, I myself agree that changes to the existing pension system are necessary and that even in the first reading, this proposal of the law must be supported so that, of course, we can come up with the necessary solutions at some reasonable time. This is not only because of what has been highlighted today, but also because of the longer-term sustainability of the pension fund, but also because of greater justice among generations. Intergenerational solidarity must continue to exist as the foundation of our pension system. Today, the Minister has discussed this solidarity, and my fellow Member has also discussed this, about the increase in the lowest, it is said that there will be some increases in those lowest pensions. This points to this solidarity note, which this future law should also keep. In particular, because the fragile stability and non-resistance of the current pension system are affected not only by some of the reasons listed but also by a number of other factors. The problem is not only what is most highlighted, population ageing and early retirement, but also the problem of the late entry of the young generation into a working relationship, the slow opening of new jobs in view of the incredibly enormous technological progress that transforms some classical professions, some services and so on into more modern ones. Here I must say that there are some other resources that should solve these things, not the pension law, of course, a whole range of other economic and economic factors, which I think will play an important role in society's future. It is therefore necessary to stress again and again and again and again that the challenge of ageing the population and thus the ageing of the labour force in Slovenia cannot be addressed only by the changes to this pension law that we have before us today. This is a whole range of other sub-systemic things that need to be adapted to the current situation, to change the working environment ect. not to mention this. I would like to myself, with a number of other comments that have been, also define up to two, three changes that I think do not satisfy, at least at this point in time, my expectations. More than once, positive discrimination against women has been mentioned today. You agree with me that we don't discriminate in children. If we got to number three, I don't know why we wouldn't get to six. I will make a very illustrative point: my six children are future potential taxpayers and there is no problem that they will not guarantee when they pay their taxes in a labour relationship, in a cash register for me to get a pension, and also for someone else, because of the solidarity system. So I don't know why the solution would be discriminatory in marriage and stop at three. I also think we're going to have to think about the age to calculate the amount of the pension. Although 34 years are now being defined, some logistics thinking is still going in the direction that somewhere is half the working age, and maybe some year later, the mean value that I think would be the most appropriate. I'll tell you why. We have been in transition for 20 years, and people who will retire in 20 years or 15 years have also put themselves through this transition. And in this transition, these existences were provided in different ways, not only through salaries, which also paid contributions and pension insurance so that people could survive. I think it's the handicaps that I think we need to think about and not stand up so tightly for 34 years. Last but not least, without tightening the sanctions for pension contributions in parallel to pension reform, we have done nothing. Just this morning, when I was driving to work this morning, I was on the radio hearing about corporate insolvency. Do you know how much daily insolvency is about 5,000 companies? Over 300 million euros! And please, that's the information that's scary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much. When I listen to this debate, I must say that I have not left the hall in practice since we have been discussing this point, every now and then, I look at the representatives of the ministry who cremate the faces. If I was sitting there, I'd probably do it even more. The reason is probably in this, look, everyone in a row, because we don't even separate who's in the coalition, who's in the opposition, we all kind of have, in a coalition, something to say over this law. But I still think there's a great deal of swindling in all this talk. I will read one sentence: "The coalition partners are assessed that the 2000 reform adopted still ensures the sustainability of public finances and therefore there is no need for a new reform." You wrote that down, what, two years ago? No, I think it was 20 months ago. What's all the fuss about? I myself have been monitoring the work of the National Assembly since 2005 and, whenever the OECD or any other European institution has come forward, which has recommended to many countries the initiation of pension reform procedures, including Slovenia, you raised your voice and said how terrible a mistake the previous one was, that is to say Janša's government not to undertake reform immediately. But the numbers were different. In 2007, 2008 the pension box was full or in the pension register remained too large, at least when you received a steering wheel called the government. And that's why there was no need for reform at the time, even though you yelled about it. Two months after you came to power, you wrote: "We find that reform is not necessary." Who's "painting"? Self and Slovenian citizens, pensioners and pensioners. In fact, the coalition has an extremely good time to bring this reform that it has now brought, but before that, it has argued that it will not go through, as it would be called. Look, the balcony is empty, the Members are few, everything is quiet outside. If it were another government, I believe it wouldn't be like that. I believe it wouldn't be like that! When we coordinated labour legislation in the previous term, there I see five Members who have already sat here in the National Assembly in several other chairs, many of you have made it very clear that you cannot support this and this law – and I am talking about laws in the field of labour law – because you have not aligned it with the social partners. That's the only reason. Today we are listening to something quite different here, in the coalition contract you wrote: "Active social partnership and strong civil society are a condition for coalition partners for legitimate and professional solutions." Madam Secretary of State, is there an illegal law before us? According to the coalition contract you signed. So let's write something nice again, but let's do something completely different, and then we hear from the President of the Government and you, "numbers of meetings have been, we've coordinated a number of times, we've coordinated a lot, but we have to stop at some point." I understand that, but you could understand it in 2006 and 2007, and you didn't want it! So you can't expect my vote to continue this thing because it's something abnormal. Another question arises in all of this, which is most crucial. This is the question of why the pension box office and some other cash registers, including state, are empty? It is empty because the country is not well-managed. It's more empty than it could have been because the country is poorly run. Why aren't they talking about pension reform in Poland? Because they have 1.8 GDP plus and they don't need it yet. You don't have to! Why are some other countries taking the reforms that we have introduced in 2000 to the end, and they do not need to start new reforms earlier? Because the country is better managed and has its pension, state and some other cash registers more full than ours. I understand you have to do this. Where he's not, he doesn't even take the army, he says an old saying. However, the situation is simply that the way you are preparing all this and the many comments made by the coalition Members, the ones who somehow prepare me for not knowing what you are doing. Considering how many comments there are. But we do know coordination, government coordination, how it's going. We know the procedures and the ministers raise their hands at the end. Now you have more comments than the opposition has. And that's it. But you know, if this contribution of mine were to slip away, I could give him one common address: Transposing in the sense that there was once a need for social dialogue, but today is no longer necessary, but today you can just walk the unions, you can walk the social partners, and everything is fine. So other criteria. Why not always have the same standards? To talk about social dialogue, to talk once about the need for pension reform, this is in 2008. In 2008, you no longer need to sign at the end of the year. Now it's necessary again. You don't know what you're doing. This is the same thing, so I could say to this contribution of mine that the transfer or the evidence of the transfer is the same as I am listening to the Prime Minister of the Government, who says, "The pioneering work was done by Mr Kovac". Bravo, great! He himself says that cash registers are the biggest government fraud, at the same time saying that government falls or exists on human resources policy. That's his line. Now that Mr. Kovac has proved to him that he failed this exam, he says that he has done his pioneering work. It's the same as me saying that on my left there's an MP who has – and now the cameras are filming me – grey-haired guests, big beard, glasses and a red tie. And we are voting on this, and you are voting that this is true. Yeah, that's not true, because you can see it's not like that! Yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u153	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u154	But what am I trying to say? [[...]] That coalition says one thing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u155	Maybe the Member didn't mean you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u156	he is doing something completely different, but then he votes that Mr Kumer is sitting here and that he is actually sitting there. [[...]] See, that's what cheating is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. You could say that maybe this coalition wants to create problems and that it's making unpopular moves because maybe it has nothing else to do. That's how we'd understand from the opposition. But the facts are different, some things have to be done, regardless of their popularity. The facts that speak in favour of truly changing the system that is ahead of us and which we have are clear: there is an increasing number of pensioners and, on the other hand, less and less active. I agree with some of the people here today who said we can't really be populist. I can't imagine the opposite side being put into this skin today, and I really want to know whether, with such arguments, I would argue that this is not necessary today, as we all know, given the information we have that we don't actually have any other solutions. But we can wait and continue, but in my opinion we are all doing great damage. In addition to the fact that we have an increasingly equal working-retirement relationship, i.e. one against the other, we must also be aware that life expectancy is increasing, that pensions are declining today, endangering the safety of our pensioners and so on. And it is the responsibility of every government to make some changes at this point and see how it can improve the existing system. And especially through the course of this law, it is clear that three important goals are being pursued. And that's what we all have to follow. Firstly, to provide regular pensions to current pensioners and all those workers and workers who will retire in the future, to stop the reduction of initial pensions, as has been the case, and to increase the fairness of the pension system, with particular emphasis on the contributions of individuals to the pension fund. In doing so, it is important not to overlook the fact that individuals who are just before retirement, which is important and what people fear, these changes will not even be felt. And the sooner the reform is adopted, the less painful the changes will be. What's really happening to us? If we look only at the value of the pension, we see that, on the basis of an agreement with the social partners, in 2000, the measured percentage, which is key to the amount of the pension, started to fall from 85 per cent to 72.5 per cent. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's system has led to pension cuts, and this is not social security for pensioners who are already receiving pensions. What will happen to those who enter this system?Oh, my God! Not to mention the impreciseness of the current system, because they also received the same pensions as those who did not pay the same in this system. And that's not right, so it also improves as far as righteousness is concerned. The proposal on the table brings about a gradual rise in retirement age, we are talking about graduality. By the age of 65, we will have come gradually, in 2021 for men or in 2025 for women. Gradually. Today we are in 2010 and by then we will be able to lift this up gradually. Therefore, there is no concern or concern for those wishing to retire immediately. More options for partial retirement are provided by this law, the new regulation of the occupational pension, especially for those working in dangerous jobs, I am talking about three months a year, the introduction of incentives for those who want to stay in the workplace for longer periods, a fairer rate of pension and, of course, a new mode of coordination. That's of great importance. I would like to point out one example because we all speak or say that, above all, workers who start working quickly in very physically burdensome jobs will be able to work until they are 65 years old. It's populism and deception. All of them can retire early. We are also talking about occupational pensions and calculations that bring a completely different calculation. It is important, however, that the transition we have tried to enforce in this law, which is being implemented by 2025, is important. I'd just like to give you one example. A woman. Who was born 1. 1. 1956 and started at the age of 24, she is now 54 years old and is 30 years old, after the current system she could retire in 2017 and after the new one she will be able to retire in 2018. This is a matter of transit, and that is to be understood. A lot of arguments are in favour of us having to accept this. Not because you want to, but because it's an emergency. Progress has been established and many things can still be coordinated within the coordinations in the second and third readings. For a better future for all, it is important that we also adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Recently, in almost every environment where people gather, there has been a debate on the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. Discussions have brought people to their feet in all European countries where similar proposals are being discussed. Why is such a model, such a formula, who checks all the calculations, why is it that 65 years of age, when, on the other hand, young people up to 30 and up to 35 years of age do not get regular employment so that they can create a family? Why Unbearable Social Differences? You get the feeling that the government is passionately dealing with some problems, it shows how conscientiously it solves them, how they do good, work, work, but they know that these are not always the right solutions. The real causes of this desperate situation do not concern themselves because they may affect their own interests. Let's get serious, responsible! We don't care how we live in this country tomorrow. Lawmakers, I wish you a lot of wisdom in including all our well-intentioned comments, including recalculating the possibility of a 62-year-old age limit that is currently raging in France. I know it's not easy for you. But thank you for addressing this sensitive area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you. I have a proposal for the government. More than 130 million are unpaid contributions to the pension fund. Instead, they were paid by modern - day managers in their pockets and in their accounts. Since you know who these are, take the 130 and more million euros and direct them back to the pension fund. This will buy you enough time to prepare a law in peace that will be in line with employers, in line with the social partners and in concert within the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u164	Your Honor! It's not really a matter of reform, yes or no. The question is whether certain assumptions need to be built for 30 years to come or even more. And here I'm sure you don't have to build them. It is certain that there will be many more and many more changes during this time. Here's the wrong base. Today no one has said that we currently have or had in 2008, after these materials, 32 years and 3 months of retirement, not work, but pension periods. If you add up an even-favoured working period, the years you have accumulated and everything else, you will see that working hours are significantly lower. And to increase overnight by more than 25% of the working time – I'm talking about working, not retirement age – is a huge blow. There is no need to debate today every day and people are frightened and waiting in line 60, 70,000 people to calculate their average whether they will be able to escape into the pension system or not. Let's try to raise the working age from 32 years to 3 months, according to the Ministry, to at least 40 years, not automatically to 43 years and 65 years. These are the data we have in the file. The claim that we are retiring too soon in Slovenia is correct, but the question is how to change this so that this shock is not too great. It saddens me that we've only been talking about the first pillar all day. At the moment, we have a serious problem of getting people to do this law, to do savings in the second pillar, and perhaps something else, and on the other hand, there will be a 10-year period when some of this second pillar will be able to raise this money just as much as it was then, 10 years ago, this system was designed to have an extra pension and a better pension when someone meets the conditions for retirement. This is a key matter. There's one more thing I'd like to talk to you about. There's no way that there's a proposal that says that if I've worked 40 years, I have my own company, I want to retire, freeze my pension and I don't want to take it, that it's in the pension system, let me keep hiring my people, and I'll also pay my salary without contributions to the pension register, because I've been paying for 40 years. They say, "No, that's not good, because of course we're tired of jobs." But in this place of employment, where I, who is the leader, the owner of this company, no one else will be employed, and this will put out another 20 jobs. Of course I'll support the reform. But I think we're dealing with something like this. The professor asks the student and tells him how he knows nothing, then gives him an enko, wipes him out and goes on and insists on his proposals without at least trying to accept them a little. But no matter what, I'll back you up, and we'll see in the second reading how it goes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Anja Kopač Mrak spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. A number of concerns were expressed in this debate. Some have already been answered by the Minister in his previous implementation. Unfortunately, we talk about the same things over and over again, and we repeat the same things. We may be heard as teachers who do not want to hear their students, and we feel that we are the only ones who are right. But that's not really what this is about. We all read the same calculations. Calculations shall be made by credible institutions. We didn't get any other calculations. We would also look at the calculations if they were made by trade unions, by employers' organisations, to look at them with all their knowledge, to identify them and to examine them with all their expertise. At a given time of year and a half, we have no other calculations on pension reform. We have no other basis on which to base our common objectives, which we have agreed with the social partners. These are two key objectives: decent pensions and cash sustainability. And when we agreed on the objectives, we discussed possible measures. Today's debate sounds like we didn't agree on anything, but that's not true. On the proposal of trade unions, a number of improvements are currently included in this proposal, which you are considering. But it's true that we didn't pay attention to everything. It is just not right of all the partners in this dialogue to always point to what was not and not to tell the other truth that remains silent. We were talking about bonuses today. We never did not want to say anything, and once again, let us make it public that the bonus system is as it is in the proposed law, on the proposal of the unions. Trade unions have proposed that when an individual fulfils the conditions for early retirement, he should be able to receive, in addition to his salary, if he remains employed, 20% of his pension. This also applies to those who will only partially retire. We've taken all this into account. The proposal was also from the beginning about the issue of early starters. This was the key category on which we conducted the most dialogue with the unions. And our initial proposal was different, and on the basis of the union proposal, we tried to bring it closer. We haven't fully aligned, but we're getting closer. Similarly, our initial proposal on the progress of the proposal was significantly different. Following our initial proposal, the gradual periods would end within 10 years. On a proposal from the union, we've extended it. Many proposals have been included, only the question is when. Speaking of social dialogue, it is right to say that the previous law was adopted in social dialogue and that no one today wants to take responsibility for bad solutions in law. Therefore, if accepted in social dialogue, it can also be accepted that pensions are falling. This is also acceptable, at the cost of not raising the retirement age to 65 years. How long can we pay this price? One of the objectives of this pension reform is also the fairness and transparency of the system, because unfortunately, these two things are very interlinked. If things are transparent, you can't pretend and blur things out by understanding them, I don't know who. Once it has been clearly shown that 34 years will be considered a pension payment, there can be no more malversion to pay 10 years a little more, 8 years a medium, but not if I already have that option. Justice in the system is unfortunately linked to transparency. And we don't always like that. We are open to many discussions. Indeed, just as I stand when I sit at most of these meetings, we have tried and followed many suggestions. When it's said that the sequence is too small. The stage is in various proposals until 2016. We're always starting, which I think is very important, from the origins of the existing system. So we don't put the minimum age at 60 overnight, but we're starting from the current situation, so women at 58, and we're lifting. The same is true because you know we already have a retirement age of 65 years in the system if you have 15 insurance years. And we already have in our system that you have to work until you're 61, women, and 63, men if they're 20 years old. And we're gradually taking all these conditions to the age of 65. An interesting debate is the consideration of the study period. While we are talking about taking into account the studies, it is also clear that this proposal was so packed in 2000 that it can be reduced, added time, but I know that time is taken into account in the measurement. So you could have retired, but you had a much lower pension because that year did not count as a percentage. Perhaps this is necessary in order to close the pension reform. But we wanted to show things transparently, giving solidarity greater or no greater importance, giving meaning as the basic building blocks of the pension system and all other social insurance systems. And creating a field of conflict between a younger and older generation can't bring us anywhere as a society. Nowhere! And that is why it is right for us to approach together and find solutions that are for everyone. We believe that, as a ministry with the entire professional public and trade unions, we have tried to find solutions that will be transparent. For example, if I give you information because so much is said that those who have started early have to work for over forty years to be able to get a full pension, this is very often highlighted in the public. In today’s system, a man can retire at the age of eighty-eight. Someone who started working at the age of 15 has to have thirty-four years of work to retire, otherwise he can't retire because the system only recognizes women's work before the age of eighteen, not men. So already in the existing system there are some who have started early and do not work for the health of harmful jobs or jobs with a particular burden for more than forty years. We say more transparently, "you will work so much longer, but you will also get a significantly higher dose percentage". In fact, if this individual works for 43 years, he will receive an 86% dose percentage of his calculated pension base. In the calculation of forty-four years, we have first done a calculation of what this means at individual level. And since he showed that if we went to forty-four years without any other changes in the system, that would mean too much for an individual. That is why, at the same time, we have been able to set up a dose rate of 80%. This is very important because in today's system it falls from 85% to 72%. This is what we did, and we've abolished the retirement pensions of the new pensioners with the old. Therefore, in all of these three measures, which are mutually coordinated, calculations have shown that individuals' pensions will on average be on an equal footing to or slightly higher than the current ones. Of course, on the assumption that it will take three years longer to work. We have never denied this, but in fact we show that we will work longer, but we will stop the fall of pensions. Of course, on the question of what kind of pension we cannot solve the problem at the exit. If the country's average salary is 1,000 euros, of course, we cannot expect to have 80% of pensioners with such a pension at the end. Unfortunately, the data shows that only one thousand four hundred pensioners are currently with a higher pension of more than eight hundred euros. This is the reality of our system, which, of course, we cannot solve with the pension system itself, and we need to approach it in an integrated manner. The second thing about the employment opportunities of older people is that we are in this proposal, so at the same time changing the retirement age, which is gradual, it is always necessary to say, no one will be with 1. 1. In 2011, he could not retire until five, six years later, because all the conditions relating to age or retirement age are rising gradually. Usually, in all cases, it is a step of six months, and there can be no way that it will happen overnight — 1. 1. 2011. And that is why it is important that we now approach this pension reform, because by 2025, when all transitional periods expire, we will ensure financial sustainability. If we start the pension reform later, it means that we have to take bigger steps, which means that it will be much more unfriendly to our citizens. This is crucial why pension reform needs to be approached as quickly as possible. And the other thing. The pension reform is not linked to the crisis alone. The crisis only showed what we knew before. Unfortunately, we also knew in 2008. Those working on the pension system knew that the period of economic growth was, of course, welcome for only the pension allowance, but did not solve in itself the issue of demographic changes, which are inevitable and are linked on one hand to the lower birth rate, i.e. fewer children, and on the other hand the longer lifespan of individuals, i.e. the ageing of the population. Finally, perhaps I would say that it is probably difficult to believe that the ministry wanted to provide both objectives in the most transparent and possible way. That is why we have tried, in this debate, to trade unions and also to you Members, and we are always prepared to do so, to provide all the possible information we have been operating on in the design of this reform, and we feel important that we be able to make responsible decisions on such important things. From my point of view, the social partners seem to be an important element of this dialogue, but we must be aware that their interests are to some extent very partial and that all citizens and citizens are to be decided here in the National Assembly and that there is also a need for a certain responsibility to take decisions that will be for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Anton Kolaric has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In recent weeks and days, I have been filled with so-called last warnings on how to vote today, whether to support or oppose the law. I must say immediately that I will support the law at this stage, because it continues to follow solidarity and an intergenerational agreement. I am keenly opposed to these so-called new solutions to individual accounts when everyone is supposed to take care of himself and forget that we have another pension system and that we cannot possibly start and forget the current system with these individual accounts. Since I have less time, I'm gonna skip a bunch of things I've done. I said I'd support the marriage. Of course, one number is very interesting, I don't know if it was already told today, I didn't hear it myself. In the last 10 years since the last reform, the number of pensioners has increased by 19% and this year the number of insured persons was only 5.5% higher than in 2000. And even in the most conjunctural years, it wasn't much bigger. This means, of course, that the current situation is unsustainable and that reform is necessary. But I do have some minor comments, suggestions. I'd like to draw your attention to three things. There's a pension. Personally, I believe that 34 years is the basis for calculating too long a period of time and that a shorter period should be obtained between 18 and 34 years, which would be appropriate. The second is the military, which has been mentioned many times. Those we served are getting smaller and smaller, and I think that the matter should be resolved in some transitional period in order to be included in the retirement period. And thirdly, I personally think that it has been poorly clarified by the public as to how this reform is going on. There is too much confusion among people about what is going on, how this reform is going. I hope that communication with the public will be more stressed in the next stages of the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I agree with all the speakers who claim that pension reform is necessary. There are, of course, more reasons for this. There were no reasons mentioned here today, ranging from demography to the sustainability of the pension system. Of course, the key question is what kind of pension reform, how and when. Today, we have heard a number of comments from all the Members' groups and also from fellow Members, and perhaps it would suggest that we consider whether we would not have written this legislation completely new, because it will obviously be too much. How many mistakes she has discovered or listed only coalition member Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, on this basis only, should this law be firmly rejected today. Today, social dialogue has also been mentioned several times. It is not good that the Borut Pahor government ignores social dialogue with all the affected in this reform, not only with unions, pensioners, young people and others. It is quite difficult to understand that in this way social dialogue has been undermined by a party who also has the word social in its name. The Secretary of State recently said that the consideration of the reform or public treatment itself was quite long. However, the key question is whether this treatment was also effective. The government has almost not listened to the comments of the public, the civil public and trade unions and all others affected by this reform. Apparently, they still want protests. Apparently, they want a new front. During the most debated period of pension reform, deviations and data on unpaid contributions were escalated in public. As far as this is concerned, no one knows. I'm hearing information about 130 million, which I don't believe in, and I think it's a substantial amount of money. Of course, it is also a question of how to resolve this square circle – whether only paid contributions should be taken into account in the pension base, which is logical, or also accounted for, but not taken into the pension fund by employers. Having unfair employers, even prominent tycoons sunbathing in media glory and in media lights and not paying contributions, is not the fault of employees. I come from an environment where we still have a largely difficult industry, metallurgy, accumulator industry, forestry and ask the government or ministry whether you are so sure that technology in companies in Slovenia is already such that it allows for such a drastic increase in retirement age. I believe that before this pension reform, a number of other measures should be implemented, particularly job humanisation, and that more quality jobs should be provided, especially for young people and educated people. Above all, ensure that the rule of law finally takes effect in Slovenia. Let me finish, I'm afraid that after this reform that you're going to get us through, there's only one thing we'll read in the paper: There's a dead man in his job until the funeral. So from the job directly to the Regrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u172	Respected and respected! I'll try to be as quick as I can. One quote I read on the Internet reads: "Time your passion, not your pension." Which means: catch your passion, not your pension. I think in this wise mind the secret to what we're trying to do with this pension reform is hiding. We want to extend working time because the current system is unrestrained. And if we don't modernise it today, a much harder task will be waiting for another government, whether in four or 10 years. Today, this system needs to be modernised because we want to ensure a long-term social state. Because this is the foundation on which this community falls. Today, some have already mentioned calculations as to what would happen if these funds we are earmarking for our pension were placed in their investment accounts. And that thought and those calculations that go around the media may be very tempting. But at this very point, there is a danger that, in fact, in these debates, this naked selfishness of an individual will break up our community. And in this case, we really need to ask ourselves, what else do we need, if we are really the best able to take care of ourselves, and we don't care about everyone else. The pension system is in this respect the most fragile, but the most important point of solidarity in society, intergenerational and existential. Andreja Črnak Meglič, in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, drew attention to some very important points that the Social Democrats will follow closely in the process of coordinating this law, so that we can ease some of the solutions in this law and lead to what we believe may be a common position with trade unions. And let me say one point about the unions. I think it's too often, you know, we all got these calls when voters and voters are calling for the kind of behavior they're looking for. I don't want to be part of a power that will know arrogantly, the only thing in this country that knows what's good for this country. I want to be part of the power, and I will also wholeheartedly support such authority, which will wisely step in dialogue with all interested companies in the group, including trade unions. This is a vital point — not just one of the laws — at which we could afford to come slaughtered in this hall. Therefore, I regret, despite all the effort and time that has been put into coordination, that there is obviously no common sense of what needs to be done in this country in order to preserve the social state, that tomorrow's generation and that today's pensioners will benefit from the same benefits as this community today. Finally, young people who no longer believe that they will ever have a pension will have one sure hope in this country, one belief that tomorrow they will also receive these rights by denying it. It's our joint task. And I am pleased with many of today's debates because I think that many of the debates in both fields of this Slovenian policy have shown that changes to the system are necessary. From solidarity with my colleagues on the list, I'm going to make a dot at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It was clear from the time of the previous government that modernisation of the pension system was necessary. You yourself knew this, and you were also reminded of this by a number of relevant European institutions. However, before the elections, the previous government did not want to deal with this big problem, and the hot bone went into the hands of the new current government. And now we're here. Should this government act irresponsibly? He can't afford this luxury. The other problem is that the ministry probably took the whole thing a little rough at first, if I may say so. The reform will seriously affect the entire population, the already retired, the still employed and, of course, the young generation, the future employees. Therefore, the broadest social consensus is needed and the applicant must be very well aware of this. Clearly, he is increasingly aware of this, since from what the Ministry representatives have told us, this is certainly true. On the other hand, trade unions are not supposed to paint only black. It was not fair when they continued to point out definitive observations, targets, reforms, but they kept silent that transitional periods and other measures were envisaged from the start, which would soften and overturn the most prominent points. In today's debate, we have heard a lot of warnings. It is certainly worrying that too many pensioners are already living in poverty and, of course, this should not be the case. Without appropriate transitional measures, the reform would be the most important effort of the generation, which lacks only a few pension periods after the current law, and therefore would be very guilty of reform. Finally, can we place the greatest burden on young people who are yet to be employed and to be confronted with completely existential problems, such as how to get full employment, jobs for an indefinite period of time, how to get to an apartment, how to provide the most basic conditions for the survival of a young family. Therefore, it is essential that the proposal continues to seek the best solutions to ensure that burdens are distributed equally to all groups as far as possible in the course of the legislative process. I am sure that the arguments presented here today by the Minister can be accepted because they are very rational. But there are always feelings, concerns and fears of uncertainty involved in the discussions on all pension reform. Many will also wonder whether there is anything or much wrong with the primary division created in our society. And when you asked yourself over there today whether money had gone from the measures taken to alleviate the crisis to the right hands, you might ask yourself, for example, whether it was right for the state to go under the previous government to buy an unscrupulously expensive weapon, whether money from the purchase of patriots might have gone into the right hands. That's a really interesting question. Well, we may soon receive answers from another branch of authority. In fact, I wanted to say that with more careful consumption in other subsystems, we could save a lot of resources that could be diverted to ensure conditions for all people worth living and dignity, which, of course, includes a decent pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Whether the money went into the right hands of the tycoon business, whether the money went into the right hands of the directors of the state-owned companies controlling the largest bank, are the directors of the company that takes the biggest loans while at the same time signing contracts with the company where the secret owners of the secret owner are. These are the real questions. And the answer to whether or not a pension reform is how to fill a pension fund. There's probably two sources here. One source is, let's finally give young people a job, let young people work. That's the first one. And secondly, let them start working at the right time. Let us give them the opportunity to study at the right time and only in this way. And the second option to fill the pension fund is economic growth, growth of the economic social product. Since this government has been singing to us all along that it is on the rise, then I don't know why you need to change at this point in your pension reform. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have made it clear that we will participate in reforms where this is necessary and exemplary and appropriate. Believe me, we will not land and allow mothers to be blamed for the fall of pension reform. You won't be in your mother's house. [[...]] [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. [[He's quitting.]] The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I just want to talk about a few things. The first one, which I would not like to miss, is that I think it is very urgent to establish a different ratio between the contribution rate of employers and employees, which means that in the first stage we could only equalise the contribution rate for both contributors, it is said that the employer and the employer would pay the same amount, equal percentage for the contribution rate. Now the ratio is about 1 : 1,5 and almost 1 : 2, for the benefit of the employer. So the employee pays a lot more. However, the level of contribution paid by the employer should be gradually increased later. I just want to remind you why there was actually this difference. It came from a payroll tax, so the employer paid less. The contribution or tax on the payroll is no longer available and, as a result, these two contributions should at least be equalised later, and, as it is said, the rate of contribution of employers should be increased. Secondly, I would like to say that the fantasmagical, I cannot use another expression, the ideas that we have heard today in some Members representing the views of their members are catastrophic. If one goes deeper in this statement, if one goes deeper into the presentation of the calculation, let's say that at the beginning of the working period one starts to invest money that is paid as a contribution rate for pension insurance, on the bank, binds to five years and after 29 years receives only interest, i.e. the principal is EUR 211 000, and only from interest on the month of EUR 590, which is 10 euros more than his pension after 29 years. All is well and well, but if this young person does not pay a contribution to pension insurance, it means that about 500 000 pensioners have to do something about it, because it means that no one would pay any more contributions and it would mean that something should be done with existing pensioners and all those who will go to retirement in two years or three or five years. Of course, they will not have the time to raise a total of EUR 211 000 in order to obtain EUR 590 interest. That's another thing. And the third thing is that as many lies as we've heard today are to deceive voters, to deceive people and scare them with some calculations that don't take them anywhere. Today, let's say that whoever's now 60 years old will have to work in four years, I don't know how many years to retire. No, four years from now, if such a law is passed, it will be long ago retired because it will be 61 years old already in 2011, not in 2014, when the age will be extended by one year. I have to tell you that such outrageous inventions as you have spent today are intended only to give people the impression that you are fighting for their rights, and in fact you are just waiting for us on this page to swallow up everything that is bad about this reform, and you are counting on it, but I do not believe that in two years you may come into power and enjoy the fruits of ours, I will say that the necessary reform action is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u180	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word. The first reading of this law will be supported for a simple reason, because if you comment as we once commented: Remember, comrades, how it was a few years ago when the first pension reform was being prepared and a compromise between the unions and the then government, which meant the fall of pensions, has been concluded until today. No government has ever hoped to tackle this great problem, and of course it is no wonder that we have landed here today and at the expense of this today it is necessary to cut into the sustainability, stability of the pension system, and this is our imperative - to achieve the stability of the system. But since time is short, I'm only going to comment on a few things. I am pleased to see that, within this pension reform, it is gradual, i.e. gradual, i.e. a transitional period that should last from 2012 to 2016, what is sustainable for all. In particular, it is necessary to say: today it is the first reading, so no matter is definitive, it is still permissible to put any decisive proposals on either side – opposition or positional – before the second reading. I am sure that we will all find a great compromise together, which will represent progress in ensuring the stability and sustainability of the pension fund. However, I am aware that some things need to be improved. We have a lot of comments. We have a lot of serious comments. I found out from the debate that about 60% had already been taken into account. As a result, it is not just necessary to express criticism all over the world today, but things need to be stabilised a little bit. It is possible to find common points of contact and bring this pension reform into the right combination, i.e. in optimal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u181	Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u182	Nicely greeted! That's the material. I don't think you've all read it. I didn't either. We all want a just pension and a fair pension reform. Congratulations to Minister Svetlik and his team, who here today gave the exact answers, a basic understanding. So whoever didn't listen well, that's not a solution. The pension register is empty. I think we know what demographic problems are, not just with us, but in the developed part of the world. Thinking if a mother has five kids to count on a bonus, five kids won't get her, except I don't know which one, we know where. And we need to look for other solutions. There must be bonuses, there must be small ones. And we need to help someone who can't do it because of health and other problems. That is why we have these factors to solve social problems. We want pensions to be decent so that everyone can live without additional state aid. Because even local communities, we know what it's like. We pay the pensioner's home. I don't know what it is, because the pension is too low. It's too bad we're politicising here on these content because it's all the same. And thinking that DeSUS cares about the pensioners, no, I care about you, and everyone else. This is our problem, and we need to solve this. I think that the material prepared for first reading is appropriate, with some comments and will need to be corrected. We all say pension reform is necessary. All the unions and so on. And then it starts, "but," and that "but" leads to zero, which is no longer worth anything. Therefore, I appeal to sobriety, to accept this document in the second and third readings and to set up for our young people, for our children who will know why they will go to work as soon as possible, why they will study and why they will save for old years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u183	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. So, when discussing pension reform or the new law, the amendment of the law, which is supposed to bring a more sustainable pension system or, above all, have a beneficial impact on the financial part of this system, we are concerned, at least on the basis of these proposals made by the Government, in particular that the system will be sustainable and less, how those for whom the system even exists, that is, pensioners, what it really means for them, or whether it is positive for them. All we care about is that the system will hold. We would expect, as some coalition Members have said, that there is obviously not as much support for the law as at first sight, that coordination will take place at least one way or another so long as most things are agreed upon. At this point, we know that pension reforms are opposed. If they're just trade unions first, they're against employers now. Perhaps then we should ask ourselves what we did not properly include and what solutions we did not best to write down. The Secretary of State said that, or at the suggestion of the unions, you have brought a number of improvements to the law. Then you probably admit that some of the solutions were bad if you feel that they are better now. And there's probably something else we can work out. However, I did not participate in the general discussion or public debate on the subject. A number of additional proposals were also put forward there. There are also certain people of interest coming to our Group of Members with additional proposals. Despite some of the coalition Members' announcements that we will improve the law, supplement it and add it, I believe little more because at least in previous draft laws this has not happened. Very rarely any key and bigger thing then the amendments really change. It's usually the little things that change. And if it's a matter of seduction, it's hard to make it an amendment to bring better solutions. Furthermore, we all know that there is still a reform of the previous system or that the pension reform we started in 1999 and 2000 is producing results. It's still going on and it's not finished. We are already going to make a new change, despite the fact that the effects of this 1999 reform have also been focused on a certain period. And this period hasn't ended yet, it's still going on. I don't know how we're going to get a new story into something that was agreed on at the time and with some greater consensus. From 2000 to 2009, however, the age is gradually increasing. Thus, in women, the retirement age of 56 years and one month has increased to 58 years and one month. In men from 61 years of age to 62. Perhaps it would be wise to think more about it, because we believed that you would still choose another system, the NDC, which the minister was also talking about, perhaps it would be more reasonable to consider that these periods, that is, at a time when the retirement age for women and men is already increasing, that maybe there is more to be done here, a few months or something like that, and it will accelerate if we assess that it gives positive results. And I think they are. The Minister has spoken in this regard many times. I'm afraid it's not the most transparent thing again. It is not clear what it will bring and how it will end, so there is great mistrust. And even though the minister said that the difference between the now retired, lately there are only a thousand people, according to my data, that's not the case, because there have been up to 10,000 retirements a year. And he was talking about the number 13 and the number 14 thousand, which means much more than he himself estimated. So there's a thousand more pensioners than there are because of the reform talk, about the changes in the pension system and so on. It's certainly a big change, and you can't accept it every two years or every five years when someone thinks it's necessary to change it now. We all agree that changes are important and necessary. However, as I said, we should probably say first, yes, the pension reform from 1999-2000 is fine. It brings results, let's upgrade it, let's speed it up. And it would probably cause a lot less excitement between people. Because the problem is not only that some may now make decisions and retire as soon as possible so as not to fall into a new marriage. The problem is that there is a great deal of unrest among young people. Among those who should actually be paying and saving for the pension, if there is some general impression that we will not get any pension, there is no point in saving and doing anything in this sense. That, I think, is a much bigger problem. Because if we do not convince young people that we are all responsible for the sustainability of the system and that they will still have some of it when they go to their own retirement, I think we have done ourselves a bear service with this novel or with these changes. I'll listen to other suggestions and ideas. But I'm afraid we won't achieve with the law what we want. I don't want anything like this to happen to us in some countries when people demonstrate. We also had a mini-demonstration here yesterday before parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u185	Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Renata Brunskole. [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Luke Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Pavel Gantar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After all this long discussion, after reading the law, many accompanying documents, analyses and so on, things are as simple as possible. And it also comes from relatively simple things, as they would say. As has been said, the core of this law is simply that we will have to work three years longer for about the same or slightly higher pension. That's the lesson of the story. But we also live longer and also enjoy the status of the pensioner longer. This fact, this simple story, which we are opening up here, is not a matter of crisis, is not caused by the crisis, but by a number of demographic and not only demographic changes, but also social changes in the world working globally and especially in Western Europe. It has been said and it has been tried to show that before this government there was a period of plenty where the pension register was not in crisis, as is not the case in the crisis of the pension treasury in Poland. Gentlemen, if you wanted to have Polish pensions, if you wanted to have Polish pensions today, you'd have me cashiers more than charged. Three times loaded and we could borrow money anywhere and anytime. If you do not want your fellow citizens to have Polish pensions in the future, then take this step and make a reform now. The reform is about the same as it is, I'm sorry to say, without any major further changes and grinds, perhaps even there. But do not expect to be able to make it with large and thorough grinding even in this process if we do not want to do this reform every other year. Of course, there were also opinions that this law was going too far to look 30 years ahead. I'm afraid no matter what happens. In fact, we can see today that European countries are renewing pension legislation for almost every 10 years. And if we don't renew it now, in 10 years, we're just going to have a hard time re-adapting it, changing it according to the situation we're in. This change is actually a change for today. And of course also the changes that will open up ahead need to be not only in the bad as you want to show it, but also in the good. Global changes are definitely in the direction of ending the three-part learning age in youth, active working age in mature years from 25 to 60 and then safe age. These things are intertwined. We learn our whole lives, we work this way our whole lives. After all, at the last festival organised by pensioners, where I was even a speaker, they themselves spoke about active age, active work, how much more or less older generations could contribute. This must be put into the system without any of these being underprivileged, unfairly dealt with, but transparently, as the Secretary of State has said, addressed. This is actually the purpose of this system and also of this law. Maybe not enough, I'd say, with a view to the future. That is why these changes will continue to take place. On such a subject, the position-to-opposition ratio cannot be exceeded. And what I could hear today and what I attended was that on both sides there were about the same fears. The opposition says it will be in power again from 2012, which is perfectly legitimate and justified, one could say, expectation. And if this expectation is legitimate and justified, then I'm just advising them, hold your fists to ensure that this law is passed. Because if not, you will be forced to accept a substantially sharper and significantly worse law. Even on the side of the coalition, I hear many times from my colleagues, my colleagues, who I am talking to, why they are so sharp, so determined these reforms, why risking that we will actually resent people, and that we will actually pay the price, and that will take us out of power if I may say so. My opinion is very simple, colleagues and colleagues on both sides, and we will leave the authorities if we do nothing. If we do anything, including adopting this law, we may have to go, but at least we'll know why we went. And that's what I'm saying! This is no place for calculation now, this is now room for decision. And after these decisions and after these things that I have read, studies and law, I believe that it is a solid basis enough for us to make these decisions, which are courageous and which must happen. I personally, of course, as you have guessed, will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u187	Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! We have been listening to the debates virtually all day, in a way that is either the Slovenian Democratic Party or the opposition's candidate for this law. This law is proposed by the Government. The government has proposed solutions that are inconsistent with the social partners. The government has proposed solutions in this law, which are inconsistent in the coalition, and the government has proposed solutions to which it has not invited anyone from the opposition. Nobody! The President of the Government here in this Chamber has repeatedly said that the Government and he himself are aware of the responsibilities and burdens that he has shouldered by leading the Government, and that he is also taking this on his own. So the government has brought this procedure down in exactly the same way that was said here in this hall many times. And what many members of the coalition are now directing against the opposition, even the distinguished President of the National Assembly has just done, is irresponsible, there is no basis for concrete action, there is no basis! Look at the magnetograms, see the speeches by the President of the Government or the answers by the President of the Government to individual parliamentary questions. None of what you are saying can be glued to anyone in the opposition, because no one on this side of the political space has been invited to any debate that has taken place, I don't know, in the ministry, in the government, anywhere, with any social partner, no one has been invited. Everything that you're charging now is practically without a foundation and without a foundation. Now you're saying it's time to coordinate, it's time to make arrangements. In his opening remarks and even in several media performances, the Minister said earlier that there is no discussion about this reform, if we say so, and only minor adjustments are possible. So, what can the coalition and the opposition talk about in this National Assembly? What are these for the Government or for the Minister of Minor Corrections, minor corrections? What's that? Has anyone made it clear today what this is? Is this a half-year cut-off, one-year cut-off? Is that anything else in the field of maluses and bonuses? No one in this room has said what those open - minded things are, which are those minor possible adjustments that we can even discuss in this National Assembly. Can any of the bill's or coalition's representatives, the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups say that? We can talk at this point and the others are blocked. Such an approach, led by the Government, also presented by the Minister, is ultimate. Here we have what the government believes is the best possible, and we must take this. If I understood certain discussions on this, there would be almost no discussion. Some debaters also discussed this. The second thing I would like to point out is that in this mandate we have a great deal of conceptual confusion launched by the Government. More or less in all important laws, the Government is talking about modernisation. Did anyone wonder what a citizen was under the notion of modernisation? It means something better, it means improvement, it means anything, it means something that's going to have a greater effect that's going to lead to greater security? Or does this mean what we now have on the table, is it, an extension of the working age, an extension of the age, an extension of what I don't know, and we're going to do all this in order to have an equal pension? Why the government does not say honestly that this is not modernisation, that we have not previously addressed modernisation in the field of small work, but we have accepted restrictions that we have not previously addressed modernisations in the field of social, but restrictions. In school nutrition, this was not modernisation, as the Government presented, but it was restrictions and so on. And respectable colleagues, we would do a lot in this country if the President of the Government, the Government and all those who speak of certain matters in this country would name things with the right name. Let's modernise. Let it mean some improvement for the citizen, for the student, for anyone, but not a deterioration of the standard in this area, but not a reduction or a reduction in rights in this area. There are a lot of these debates when you talk about these things. If we put this reform ahead of us today, not modernisation, but reform, within some economic framework, we can simply say a forced settlement. What you have now submitted to the legislative process could be termed in the economic field by the concept of forced settlement. So a system that doesn't work, we take, on the other hand, an economic society, we have the possibility of bankruptcy, liquidation, forcible settlement. The pension box doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't have resources. What you're doing is basically a forced settlement in this pension system. It's not a bankruptcy yet, but it'll be easy. We're on track for that to happen. But that's in this context. Nobody's talking about where we have our spares in this system. Is it possible to achieve this, one part of the savings by cleaning the cash register? Is that possible in this system? Fill the pension box with the coverage of all those who should pay in the pension and also in the social register, the medical checkbook, but do not do so. There's very little work to be done in this area. The capture of the grey economy is practically stagnant. We don't see any positive movements. In an area of crucial importance, this is in the area of economic prosperity, these measures have not been taken. We have proposed many things, but it has not been accepted, because we are supposed to somehow join the wave that Germany would launch with its economic growth. It didn't get caught. Two years doesn't work. Economic growth has fallen a lot. It is now growing horribly slowly, slower than in other European environments, even in comparable ones. It is said that, systematically, through the non-acceptance of measures or through the adoption of measures that have not been taken, we have blocked through the adoption of the wrong measures the possibility that these cash, health and pension measures will be properly filled. The number of employees has decreased significantly. Not only those who then poured themselves into the Pension Fund, but also those who went back to their homelands. 100, 120 thousand jobs disappeared in a short period of time. And we did nothing to try to replace this job drop. These are the ones that pay in the system, and these are the ones that turn this system around and make it sustainable. We have also done nothing, for example, in the field of transparency of management. There are data that many silent companies draw funds from the public system, from public enterprises, from public companies. These may not be the means that create new jobs. These are probably not funds, which also means repayments to cash registers, and so on. In short, not much has happened in this area. On the other hand, we take solutions, we pass laws that do not bring any added value. One is the guarantee law on the development of the toll satellite system. About 150 million euros we recently accepted a guarantee for this set, which will not bring any added value to Slovenia. Nothing. She's gonna get a job with some company, probably not a big one. The system we will develop will not be comparable to the European system. Money will pour, spend, no effect. In addition, additional resources will be available to complete the matter with the European satellite toll system. There is no problem in this area of voting to support such a measure is not a problem. On the other hand, we deal with many things that mean social security and not. Nothing helps us to keep the number of unemployed below 100,000 by translating from the records into records or by deleting from records. Nothing at all. You don't know that in any cash register. It's a fiction that just shows that the state is too big for the government to break these magical boundaries. However, it does not contribute to an improvement of the situation in this area at all. In fact, it causes major problems because we operate on wrong data, with incomplete data, with consciously modified data. Many things in this area could be done and arranged, but that is not the case. Nor does it help us if it is one of the fundamental reform measures that we have taken in this mandate or that you have adopted in this mandate, namely a package of government exit strategies, translation of state property management. Nothing. There is no added value, absolutely none. Indeed, KAS has now resigned from this because he has lost his role in this further business, because this business will be carried out by someone else, but the added value in this area is not entirely any. Instead of taking measures to support economic activities, espies, small economies and so on, the Government is simply working to translate assets. However, the Government's greatest efforts are directed and directed towards those who receive much moral and political support, have a business problem and pay off, some of them even the highest or one of the highest wages in the country. In short, all these things are wrongly arranged, wrongly arranged. And that's why these amazing words that the Prime Minister of the government spoke here before the campaign, in the campaign, and even after he took over the post of Prime Minister of the Government, they don't take over. They don't have a basis to get caught, they're not specific. That's, I'll say, some pretty talk that doesn't have any basis. I also do not know whether any of the minor corrections we can talk about consists in agreeing that the kilometres or transports to work received by employees are not taxed or paid for. Here we have the basis for paying contributions to this Act, paragraph 144, where those who receive a refund for transport to work are to pay a contribution to the pensions from this. Interesting. And lunches and stuff like that. Is this the minor change we can talk about? I think that the taxation of the refund for carjacking and spent fuel when you come to work, with the contribution to the pension fund, is stupid, inappropriate, because all the excise duties, all the VATes, all the taxes are paid. Now we will bear this, this receipt, which means an assessment of the material cost as a contribution to the pension fund. I think that these things should be handled in a different way and treated differently. The Secretary of State has earlier said that with these changes that are now ahead of us, pensions will be even slightly higher or at least the same as the current ones. We'll only get fewer. Interesting. With this reform, when we have a system that has a distinct hole, I think that it takes about 250 million euros of annual coverage for this system from the state budget to be able to make at least the same payment of pensions for pensioners when we reform this system at once under these conditions. I think that's quite the problem. There are few who can make a system of payments from such a deep minus, even though we know what the inflows of people to the pension institution will be, that we will ensure at least the same benefits and that we will stop the fall of pensions. It's probably hard to look at these mathematical things. Promise people that the reform will be adopted in order to go in some way without the pain of going through to get the same. Then we do not need reform if we can ensure equal payments under approximately comparable conditions. I think that if we want this process to run normally, that the government should receive a negative assessment in this proposal and that it should make a corrective examination in terms of content and manner, in its approach to proposing this modernisation or this reform. There is no way to push the tables through the National Assembly, to talk about that we are all aware that things are not working and to vote in favour. I don't think that's possible unless the duality of those you're for driving this process is so great that you're going to do it. I am extremely reserved for this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u189	Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Well, at this time or in this very interesting debate, we have touched only a few of them, we have mentioned many, we have not, and they may be important. However, it is good to discuss it, even though it would take more time or even more meetings. As the opposition, of course, we are sorry that we have not been involved in such difficult, almost, I would say, a national project in any way involved in coalition coordination, but that is how it is in this government and we can now come to terms. And I don't take criticism that it's just for populism, a criticism that we enjoy when we can criticize and similar. I reiterate that we are aware of the seriousness of the issue. However, the proposal you are proposing with this law is a simple one. We know that it is necessary to stabilise the pension allowance, to balance it, to make it sustainable in the long term, which means nothing more than, in other words, to take it out as far as it flows into the treasury. Nothing else, very simple. And what solution does this proposal offer? Very simple! Make a plan to make more leaks take less in a very simple way. We're going to run 10% more because we're going to work 10% more. The working time will be extended. And the pension will be paid, 23% less, because the age to enter the pension system will be not sixty-five years, but fifty-five years. This means that for five years, he will receive less and less of his pension, for he will still die at the time of his destiny. And the survival age of men at the age of 60 is nineteen today, perhaps ten years from now, one more year from now, but the life span is not increasing as fast as it is in the developed countries. That is to say, if the life expectancy is 19 years, instead of 19 years, he will only receive a pension for 14 years. And a woman under the age of 24 will be 19 instead of 24 years old. And at the same time, we figured out and taxed all possible revenue. In this too, for example, such stupidity has happened that the costs of work are also included in the burdens, as Mr Tanko has already mentioned again, such as kilometers, food for work, transportation to work, only to the cost of a bus ticket. Not anymore. And from that, you'll have to pay your contributions. This is what it says in Article 144. That's what it says. Since the Secretary of State is sneering at me and is surprised at my claim, I am obliged, of course, to come forward and then I will have no more words and will not be able to reply, as stated in Article 144: the basis for paying contributions to insured persons under Article 14 of this Act is to pay or compensate the salary and all other benefits from the employment relationship, including ratings, and to reimburse the costs related to the work paid in money, vouchers or in kind. However, the cost of work is – allow me, I still have time, I did not count on the State Secretary to deny me, so forgive me – according to the Labour Reimbursement Act: the daily subsistence allowance in the country, the kilometre, the cost of staying, the cost of transport to work and from work, the field allowance, the allowance for food during work, the compensation for a separate life, the retirement allowance. Therefore, all of this will also be burdened by contributions to compulsory pension insurance. We have made or the ministry has given an extremely simple recipe. It'll pay more, it'll take less. And that's all. That's not modernisation. What kind of modernisation is this? Change some parameters. If the house budget creaks, I'll give less to the kids and take more. Don't talk about modernisation. Although we are aware that cash stability is needed. Of course. And we have pointed out a number of mistakes that we would like to correct, even though we know this is necessary. Do not expect that, because of this need, we will not criticize mistakes and shortcomings. This is the task of the Members. We cannot afford that if we make a bad proposal, we would not criticise what is to be criticized, so that now that we have a word, we will not help to improve the text. What, though, would be modernisation? I wonder if those of us who are talking about modernisation as some innovative solutions to this problem would understand it as modernisation, as innovative solutions. I am pleased that a speech and discussion on basic basic income, universal core income, are also emerging in the public. It's very simple. As we talked about a universal, basic children's allowance, without all those computer circadians, about the property situation, nothing would cost us any more, for 10 times we would have cost administration, simplified things and made things really transparent. That's not what this is about. Nobody's thinking this way. No one's thinking this way. Where's your innovation? We mentioned the Minister's promises last year that many other things must be resolved in this pension law due to the ageing of the working population, the Labour Relations Act, incentives for employment of older and similar things, injuries at work, occupational diseases and such things. None of it is. As a basic solution, we reiterate transparency. You're talking about transparency. This system will be less transparent, more complicated, less fair and so on. And don't say that we have a system that is fairer, more transparent, and so on. If we are to establish a qualitative leap in transparency, we should introduce a virtual personal account. You know exactly what we're talking about. Even in the public presentation of the opinions, Mr Kidric mentioned this, and no one took it. Such are the experiences of the Nordic countries with an excellent approach to the transparency of the system. None of that. And when we go through a reform that goes beyond the work of one term, it goes beyond, it doesn't just talk about a few years. In a few years, we'll have to go back to that. Yeah, that's not the way. This goes beyond the work of one term. We're aware of that. And if this problem is not resolved in this mandate, it will have to be in the next term – whoever it is. However, do not prevent us from trying to correct these errors, which are so obvious that I am surprised that the coalition does not actually notice them. It's very simple. You have approached in a way that stabilises the pension register in a very simple way. Okay, okay, well, those computer machinations, at one more time, you've reinforced the smallpox, weakened the bonuses, and so on. It's just a couple of numbers, and you get a stable cashier out. I wonder if this government will approach the health treasury in the same way, gentlemen, and we will not be able to say there: you will only receive less time of health care. No, no, no. No, people live and it is not possible to cut off the time of receiving health care, as we can cut off here, shorten the time of receiving pensions. No, no, no. Where will your innovation in the rescue of medical bills be?Oh, my God! Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate has been useful. I would like to see our comments and our amendments tabled with less criticism or a little more understanding or kindness. Many feel that this law cannot be improved. If there was will on all sides, it would be possible. But if there are no improvements, then we will not take responsibility for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u191	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much. There's not much more time, but still. Let me begin by saying that the current pension reform has not yet expired and has produced results. Yeah, he's got the results. Pensioners experience them from year to year by reducing their pension/retirement ratio. And the minister can tell you if this thing lasts until it's done, we can end up at 50% or less. It is said that this reform is not as good and as good as we would like to see. The second thing I would like to say is that it will probably not be possible that the reform that we are implementing here is not a Slovenian refugee, but is something that they are doing in all the developed Western European countries, as a result of the fact that the life expectancy is increasing and that the birth rate is what it is, and the relationship between generations is shrinking to the detriment of the active population. And the active population can't be more burdened than it is. Innovative proposals! Of course, this is something that we need to think about today. We're going to have to change the paradigm. But things aren't as simple as they look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u193	Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] It's mine to watch the clock. Thank you. Madam Secretary of State, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I will begin where Ambassador Montenegro Meglič has ended, asking if reform is necessary. I would not like to conclude today's debate to reopen this issue, because it seems to me that in a year and a half we have come from this public debate so far that we probably would not agree that reform is necessary. If we mention only some of the elements that some normally point to in favour of the existing reform, I do not want to diminish the importance of the reform that was carried out in 2000, because it was absolutely necessary at that time and ensured the financial sustainability of the system until today, which is, of course, the objective. It is therefore the responsibility of every single government to make proposals to ensure the smooth functioning of social sub-systems; this is the key task of the Government and also Parliament to accept this. Let me, however, return to the functioning of this adopted reform in the past, which entered into force in 2000. This reform, as has been repeatedly highlighted, has extended the retirement age in women from 56 years and 1 month to 58 years. At the same time, the period of receipt of pensions increased by 4.5 years during the same period. In men, the spread is slightly smaller, but about this, the age from 61 to 62 has increased, and actual retirement has increased by 1 year and 10 months in the same period. This points to the fact that the reform that was at that time, today with the increase in scissors, if I may say so, exacerbates the situation in the pension register. In doing so, I would not like to expose some crisis periods and frighten, but the fact is that the data is clear. If we maintain the current system, the public debt will only exceed 60% of GDP in 2021 due to the financing of the pension fund, which means that we cannot afford anything else in this country, because the actual public debt will go only to the financing of the pension system if we want to preserve the rights of pensioners. However, as the objective of each country's system of stability is, of course, an approach to change is essential. Still, I'd like to say a word about how we're doing, like, a good term, a forced settlement. Probably all of these changes that we are proposing cannot be reduced to such a simple concept. Indeed, it has been repeatedly exposed today to extend only working hours, but it has not been said that we are also increasing our contributions to suspend or fail to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. The discussion that contributions will also have to be paid from reimbursement for travel costs. In the 144th article referred to by Member Tsukati – but I do not want to paralyze but actually show how complicated it is to understand the system – it is written in the first paragraph that you quoted. However, in the third paragraph, it is stated in the first indent that the amounts of the jubilee award, the retirement allowance, the solidarity aid, the reimbursement of the costs and the amounts of the credit shall be regulated in accordance with the law governing the income. So this means that they are paid only up to the amount that is also charged in the income. But if instead of what will be paid, say, yes, people will pay more, we will pay more transparently for this system, but that doesn't mean we'll pay someone else there, maybe someone else, but that means we'll have a higher pension base on this account. Therefore, all of these, all of these elements that we are not talking about, are those parts that we have put together, that, despite the extension of the working time, we are still preventing the retirement from falling. A lot of these pieces are in the system. Since the system is extremely complex to tell you, I've been doing this for two years, and I can't say that I know all the details of this system. But surely this law, which is now on the table, is easier to understand than before. This is likely to be the one who reads it, even though it is still demanding, but he is likely to be able to admit it. There are many discussions about raising social contributions when they are on the one hand exposed to how employers oppose it. But here it is necessary to provide and review the system from the point of view of what has happened so far. This means that we have now allowed the payment of contributions in the amount of the minimum wage for certain groups in the company, which were probably not best justified in terms of their financial resources. And now we're not even increasing what we're doing tomorrow, but we're moving gradually again. We will start with this raise to 60% of the average salary after 2013 and the rate will be 2% at the annual level. All this with the aim of ensuring that everyone who pays is paid at least as much as the system as a whole provides solidarity from the system. Because this is actually crucial if we want to ensure solidarity in the system. If we have a system that allows some to pay less and then more out of it than they have paid, this is not based on their objective conditions. It's not solidarity, it's not a transparent system. And we are trying to do this with these measures, of course, with the knowledge we have, with all the expertise at the Ministry, we are doing this together. We also discussed this with trade unions and other social partners. This dialogue is also today. This is where we listened to your suggestions. And I would still like to point out that the matter is not completely closed, as the Minister has pointed out several times. There are still certain possibilities for repairs within the system. And while I'm telling you who or who we didn't invite to this discussion, I'd still like to say that there's an open door for anyone. And that's how those of us who wanted to talk to the whole team and everyone came in and talked about these issues. We may not understand who should be invited — but if the SDS party wants us to invite them, that is no problem. However, I would like to say here that if the party wanted to talk, the Ministry would absolutely respond to this invitation. Because we want to establish a system that is more or less appropriate for everyone. This pension system is a system that is so important to each of us that when we enter into dialogue it is very difficult not to introduce partial interests and look at society as a whole. And here is a very important intergenerational solidarity and a just distribution of burdens between generations. We are pursuing two key objectives in this circle: the dignity of pensions and financial sustainability, because in fact both objectives are interlinked. If we do not provide a financial sustainability system, we will not be able to pay decent pensions. And within this solution, possible improvements are always welcome. The Ministry is ready to discuss these matters. Thank you for your support for the first reading of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u195	Mr. Cuckoo, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you. I have the impression that we didn't get along when I quoted Article 144. I said that in this first paragraph the costs relating to work were inadvertently included. Unwarranted. And I told you what these costs are by law, these are travel logs, kilometres, accommodation expenses, field allowance, transportation costs to work and work, work regress during work, payback for a separate life, retirement on retirement. The third paragraph, mentioned by you, which says 'no matter the first paragraph of this Article, contributions shall be paid from', however, some entirely different incomes and not labour costs are mentioned. These include the amounts of the jubilee awards, the premium of the supplementary insurance, the annual leave regression and nothing else. So this is happening again and again, if the opposition points to something, there's a thousand reasons to prove it or to reject such a proposal, instead of being honest, instead of saying, "I didn't mean it, we'll fix it, we'll study it." And if there are really supposed costs of work here, like the costs you've listed, we're going to delete them because that really doesn't belong in there. No, you're proving me wrong. Good. I don't know how we're going to discuss amendments in the course of the debate, if we're going to have the same attitude, with the same approach that the opposition is proposing, it's not worth anything, something has to be broken down in principle, hit down, invent a thousand other unfounded dictions, reasons, we'll never come to a solution to a problem that is of national importance. And at such a performance, you will be even more incarcerated and, after all, convince each other that what it says is excellent, and that we must not change if we propose a change of opposition. Madam Secretary of State, I believe that there is only a need for more culture, dialogue, in such matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u197	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Check-in is on. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, some of you know better than I do, but unfortunately I had to look at the screen. Every debater has a minute and a quarter. Here you go, Mrs. Silva Nigga!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I quit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u199	Mr. Mirko Brulc? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Marian Crossman? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u200	But on a few things that have been said by the predecessors, there is still something that needs to be said. We have done something in the time of the previous government, however, so, Mrs Črnak Meglič, that there has not been a greater gap between pensions and salaries. However, according to everything, pension growth is already half the cost of living this year, and for the next two years you are promising total freezing. You won't be here yet. So don't let your predecessors read out the things you do on your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u201	Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Maybe there's something else I'd like to say about possible reserves that at least some debaters and debates have seen in our system. Most of the time, though, we talked about the contributions we are paying, and there were also some speeches on the employer’s website. Of course, it is necessary to know that by supplementing the Wage Tax Act we have really added some breathing opportunities to the economy. Unfortunately, this condition has gone in the wrong direction, as desired. Less than half of the funds, so to speak, have actually gone into technological refinement and development. Most of these funds, which no longer went to the pension register, went to higher profits, or in other words, for manager’s purchases. So what was done in the previous mandate to get the economy started came back as a boomerang. So we might reconsider whether the economy would be valid to force it to be more socially responsible than if we left it free. It is important to know, however, that wages, especially those higher, so to speak, engineering, those that bring higher added value, are still relatively high burdens on us compared to neighbouring countries, and that is why technical intelligence and businesses are also slipping abroad. We still don't have a social security cap. I regret that we have not been able to take any bolder steps in this area in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u203	Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you. In fact, I applied because I wanted to object to Mr Tsukati in connection with Article 144. I see this text as read by the Secretary of State and will not explain it again. Of course, the question is, What should be considered as the basis for a pension? Let's say the thing that no one has mentioned so far is just a small thing: all overtime is included in the base for the pension assessment, not only to a certain extent, as far as an individual can do under the Labour Relations Act. This means that what bothered many most is that, if much of the work, but does not have the right to include it in his pension, this measure is taken into account. Let's be correct. Let's read what it is. Let's try to understand each other! I've just been busy in my life knowing that we all don't read the same text because we have different contexts. And I believe that our common desire is to read this law and prepare the law so that people will benefit as much as possible from it. But it is a fundamental benefit for me not only to think of what this marriage will bring to me personally, but also of what this law will bring to those who will come after me, or to those who do not have this happiness to have as good a salary as I do. That's what this is about. Here, however, some basic conditions must be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u205	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Anton Kolarich. [[Not at all.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I would just like to react to the implementation of Mr Gorenak. I'm sorry he's not here right now, but that's his problem, not mine. He spoke of the fact that we have in the coalition contract that the 2000 reform adopted ensures the sustainability of public finances and therefore there is no need for a new reform of the pension system, which is not true. He only read the first sentence, and without the word "for now," that is, "for now he provides." However, the immediate modernisation and upgrading of the pension system is necessary and necessary in order to ensure the long-term financial and social sustainability of the system. Additional solutions are needed to motivate employees to stay longer active, as the age of new pensioners is only gradually increasing and solutions that will encourage and modernise additional pension insurance. The matter then continues in this Treaty and Mr Gorenak, as usual, says only the part that suits him most. A lie is a property, it seems, of some people in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u207	Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! From the outset, I said that in the parliamentary group and I too personally realize that pension reform is one of the most important structural reforms in Slovenia. Because the fact is that the financial situation of the pension fund has long been unsustainable, and the forecasts are unfortunately even more bleak. And since I'm sure at least one of the discussers probably didn't get it right. I will not say that he did not understand my introductory words as a representative of the parliamentary group when I said that, in addition to these reforms, which are necessary – from the pension, health and so on – we expect the Government to remain, not only in the context of pension reform, but also to take a more decisive approach to reducing the costs of the state administration. That's what I was talking about. I mean unnecessary investments in the state administration in addition to reducing costs, but not in any way. I stress this several times, at least once at each meeting of the National Assembly, that investment in the country must be accelerated, that investment must be prepared if companies and individuals, i.e. employees, are to be paid to the state treasury and also to the pension register. And third, as far as all children are concerned. Again, I would like to point out that I am sure that mothers and children will no longer be at risk of pension and state cash registers. In any case, positive discrimination against mothers and appropriate family policies are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the integration of the Transfers by Individuals and the State in the Republic of Slovenia, following a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Willi Trofenik. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponents to Mr Trofenik for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal to amend the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households is intended to eliminate unacceptable differences or confusion in the recognition of partial compensation for lost income to family assistants. The current situation in this area is that some family assistants receive a refund of EUR 734.15 gross, the second EUR 597.43 gross, the third EUR 578.55 gross and the fourth EUR 560 gross, i.e. a net range of EUR 438 to 524 for equal work, depending on the place of residence and the time of entry into the family assistant system. This is certainly unacceptable and unacceptable for a socially and regulated country. This situation is due to a lack of premeditated changes to the law, which have been enforced since 1. 1. 2007 The ambition of the proposed interventional amendment of the law is solely the equalization of the rights of family assistants regardless of the place of residence, i.e. the amount of the minimum wage. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that, as a rule, family assistants are those citizens who would otherwise be potential candidates for unemployed persons and thus burden other government budget items or would be potential candidates for home protection without a family assistant, which would significantly increase the burden of municipal budgets. In view of the current state of the public finances, we have agreed at a meeting of the parent labour body to compromise the level of the minimum wage to be achieved gradually, immediately following the implementation of the law at 90% of the minimum wage or €660.74 gross and after 31. 12. 2011 to the end of 2012 at 95 % of the minimum wage or EUR 697,44 gross or with 1. 1. 2013 in full amount of minimum wage. We also agree with the extension of the law or the addition of the parent's working body, which ensures equal treatment or equal pay for lost income to parents under the rules on parental protection, and, finally, it is important that social work centres have to decide again on the rights set out in this Title in accordance with the law, which will eliminate the anomaly and overturn the blame for the current state of affairs between municipalities and social work centres. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I expect you to support the necessary changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president of Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the coordination of transfers of individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed William Trofenik with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, which was also endorsed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, first signed by Vila Trofenik, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported the proposal of the law. We have also received proposals for amendments to the Committee, which have been prepared to a greater extent on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the proposal's representative, Vila Trophynik, provided an additional explanation of the bill. The representative of the Government presented the Government's opinion and stressed their agreement with the proposers that an appropriate compromise should be sought. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion and drew attention to the legal systemic concerns of their service, which considered that it would be more appropriate to approach these issues under other laws. It agreed, however, that in principle the Committee's proposed amendments had been removed. She pointed out, however, that the time available was not sufficient for a really thorough examination of the proposed amendments. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee drew up and adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 2 and 2b and 3 respectively. With regard to the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Messengers and Members! The government understands the proposaler's efforts to increase the partial payment for the lost income of family assistants, which is expected to increase with the proposed amendment of the law. However, on a proposal from the law, she had certain concerns because the applicant did not include parents who receive partial payment for lost income after Yakon on parental protection and family benefits, and for which it is by its nature the same remuneration as that of the family assistant. For this reason, the Government considers that a partial payment for the lost income of both family assistants, on the one hand, as well as for parents, is necessary at the same level as for both categories. At the same time, the Government had doubts that in the current economic and financial situation they would support an immediate proposal for a minimum wage. The Government therefore supports the proposed amendments of the parent committee which were adopted 5. 10. which went in the direction that the law also regulates the level of payment for parents who care for their children and gradually raises the right to a minimum wage. Therefore, the arguments were taken into account and the compromise is good both from the point of view of individuals and from the perspective of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, hello to all present! Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the regulation of the field of family assistant in a more appropriate way, which stimulates a large number of assistants, since in addition to making home care workers more comfortable, other state treasury, pension, health care, municipalities are thus burdened. However, it is impossible, of course, to overlook the two facts that the proposed amendment deviates from the uniform way and time frame for the coordination of individual transfers, i.e. from the basic direction and purpose of the basic law and that it brings new burdens, new old burdens on the state and municipal budget, and if you allow me, of course, it would also be a bit evil that perhaps if one of our colleagues had prepared this proposal for amendments to the law, the coalition would have rejected it precisely because of this burden. But, as we say, we support this law in the Group of Members. However, the purpose of the law is in line with the principles of the social state – and that is good – and solidarity, allowing for a more humane attitude towards those in need of care and service, as they remain in domestic care for longer periods. On the other hand, it allows employment for unemployed people and makes it more difficult for those who work for them. In recent years, family helpers have been working hard to regulate their status. They also sought justice through the Constitutional Court. However, changes in legislation over the past years have also led to anomalies in the area of the level of the right to partial payment for lost income, contrary to their expectations. That's why, I think, the number of assistants has been halved. Most likely because of unemployment. In the last year, however, it has increased significantly again. The previous term of office ran out of time to take into account the requirement of 7,000 signatures collected in mid-2008 in support of improving the conditions for family assistants. We also support the adoption of the proposed amendments to the law because this is some form of social transfer for which the recipient does a useful work that can be measured materially. At the same time, it is a better solution, a much better solution for caregivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! We are pleased to see that the adoption of this law will eliminate the differences that are, in a web of circumstances, which should not be afforded and allowed in a country of law, result in a different treatment of rights from the same title and according to the nature of the work and the purpose of the same institutions. This is a partial payment for lost income for persons who are family assistants and who are treated differently because of their non-conformity with respect to the amount of that payment resulting from the non-coordinated amount of the minimum wage as laid down in the Minimum Wage Act and the law governing the transfer. The complementary proposal of the law also addresses a group which is entitled to such payments under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. In fact, it would be fair and right, and we probably all agree that payments should be uniform and set at EUR 734 immediately, since this is an anomaly caused by both the legislation and its enforcement, and not gradually, as foreseen by the amended proposal of the law. Therefore, in the next two years, those who receive less than the minimum wage will gradually be paid up to the amount actually going on today. In addition, those who already have a partial loss of income payment will have to wait after the minimum wage level by coordination until 2013 when the same amount of payment is reached for all. The financial implications for the budget would be the immediate smoothing of the excessive. The proposed compromise, which is therefore necessary at this time, remains. We will support the proposal in the DeSUS Group, although we sincerely want the injustice to go away immediately. Especially because families who care for their member with severe mental impairment or severe mobility are not only in a serious financial situation but also have a painful burden that those who do not have such concerns cannot imagine at all. In the DeSUS Group, we fear that, although it is still necessary to give priority to solving the crisis and to public financial sustainability at the price of even greater dimensions of social threats and other hardships. The question is whether this is in the spirit of the social state, which is also supposed to be legal and consequently just, which, given the already implemented and proposed measures for the distribution of the burden of the crisis, is certainly not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the proposed amendments and additions to the Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households of the Republic of Slovenia, it is certainly necessary to take into account this year the Law on Minimum Wages, which has increased with the implementation of the Act, while the current Law on the coordination of transfers sets the level of transfer in 2006, and the method of harmonisation of transfers provides for a double conclusion in July and January in view of the rise in the price of living needs. And here comes the problem of family assistants who, despite the increase in minimum wage, have not yet been or have not been able to take new decisions on the harmonisation of the amount of partial payment for lost income and therefore feel justly damaged. It is therefore certainly necessary to regulate and correct such irregularity or non-compliance with the applicable legislation, since such a discriminatory situation cannot be accepted. Otherwise, criticism is at the expense of the competent ministry on the ground, as the situation in this area is unclear and unregulated, not to mention at all the shortcomings and inaccuracies of the relevant records. There are also unacceptable differences in the payment of family assistants in the contribution to the financing of the rights of family assistants, i.e. the open question of the competence and duty of social work centres and municipalities in the financing of family assistants in accordance with the provisions and the notification of social work centres. It is also the responsibility of the Ministry to provide timely, clear guidance with harmonised legislation or the legal system. Let me mention the necessary amendments and additions to the Law on Long-term Care and Care Insurance at Home, which has also resulted in such an irregular situation in the field of family assistants. The subject-matter proposal for amendments and the addition of this law is therefore only to be understood as a temporary bridge solution that does not solve the problem in a comprehensive and long-term manner. We will therefore decide on our conscience and good faith within the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! In 2004, the Social Protection Act introduced the Family Assistant Institute, which, according to LDS, is a positive solution for disabled and non-movable persons who can stay at home and be cared for by one of the domestics who acquires the status of family assistant. Payment costs were charged to local communities. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act introduced in 2007 a revised method of financing the work of family assistants, the rights of the family assistant are further financed by means of a disabled person up to the amount of his or her payment capacity and resources in the amount of the contributions of the debtors. With this amendment of the law, the number of family helpers has decreased, and in the last year, the number of family helpers has increased again slightly, moving between a thousand and a thousand 100. Growth is also partly due to an increase in unemployment. Efforts to regulate the status of family helpers have been under way for some time now, but they have not been fully successful so far, even though it is a group that relieves family distress and helps society as a whole to care for the sick and the unmovable. If there were no family assistant, many of these people would need institutional attention. As the population grows older, the pressure on such assistance will increase. In addition, the family assistant also makes it possible to employ more difficult categories of the population, and we are solving two problems at the outset. The proposed legal amendment regulates or coordinates the partial payment for lost income for family assistants provided for by the Social Protection Act in order to determine the amount of the minimum wage. This resolves the different adjustment of the amount and coordination of the partial loss of income payment between the two groups of family assistants as to when their employment contracts have been signed. From the point of view of justice and equality, the current regime is unsustainable in our view, and we agree that this will also be the case with the relevant amendments and additions to the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia. We agree with the proposed solution, although it would be best to arrange this immediately, we agree that it will be done gradually. Therefore, it is necessary to harmonise the payment following the entry into force of the law in the first part, i.e. at 90% immediately upon the entry into force of the law, 95 at the end of the following year and fully settle at the end of 2012, when the amount of the partial payment for lost income would reach the minimum wage. At the LDS, we also expect that the status of family assistants in the legislation under preparation will be fully new and uniformly regulated. I am talking about the Long-Term Care and Long-Term Insurance Act, which is to be prepared in 2013, as a right to a personal assistant. Until then, today’s change will help us to overcome the different payment arrangements for family helpers. At the LDS, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u224	In the Group of Social Democrats we support the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. Only in this way will we eliminate the imbalance in the amount of the partial payment for the lost income of the family assistants as soon as possible and unify the compensation of all the family assistants. Social Democrats are confident that by eliminating the anomalies in this area we will do much to strengthen this important institution, one of the most important and newly established forms of care for the disabled, which we introduced in Slovenia in 2004. This is a relatively new right that a full-year-old person with a serious mental disability or a full-year-old disabled person may benefit from. This gives a disabled person the opportunity to choose appropriate care in the home environment instead of full-day institutional protection. The right to choose a family assistant is undoubtedly a positive solution that contributes to better practices of caring for disabled people who need help and care at home. At the same time, the Institute, which gives people with disabilities greater autonomy, prevents social exclusion and raises the quality of their lives. The root of the problem solved by the proposed changes in the law is the way in which the partial payment for the lost income of the family assistant is coordinated. The family helpers were up to 31. 12. 2006 eligible for a partial payment for the lost income of the minimum wage. From 1. 1. 2007 is the amount of the minimum wage, which was valid on 31 December 2007. 12. 2006, began to coordinate in accordance with the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households. Because of the uncoordinated legislation, there are currently two groups of family assistants who have different heights and coordination of partial loss of income payment and therefore need to be levelled. It is true that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs intends to organise the institution of a family assistant in an integrated manner in the law on long-term care and insurance for long-term care. However, this law is expected to be implemented in 2013 and we want to regulate the amount of payment for the work of family assistants as soon as possible. That is why, on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the disabled, we supported the adoption of amendments to the amendment of a law allowing all family helpers to receive a uniform amount of compensation. In this way, family assistants will receive a partial salary of 90 % of the minimum wage in 2012, 95 % in 2012 and a minimum wage in 2013, according to the nominal amount. In view of the current economic and financial situation, and given the fact that the proposed changes will nevertheless have financial implications, for which funds have not been fully secured, it should be pointed out that this solution has reached an appropriate compromise, which will nevertheless make a significant contribution to improving the situation of family assistants and financing their compensation. Members of the SD Group will support the proposal for a new Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. We have talked about the family helper and regulating this area many times. Certainly all things, as they are arranged, are not ideal, and several times needed changes and additions. However, this issue does not fall under the Transfer Coordination Act, i.e. the level of payments, but rather the Long-Term Care Act already mentioned. However, as long as this law is not in force or will not come into force, this issue must be addressed in some way, so that we will support the proposal of our colleague Trofenik and the amendments adopted by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rojej is also on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and fellow Members! The Social Protection Act was introduced in 2004 by the Institute of Family Assistants. It allowed disabled and immobile persons to stay at home with the care of a person living at the same address. At the time of the introduction of this institute, the costs of financing the family assistants were charged to the municipalities. Prior to the adoption of the last novel, the statutory institution of a family assistant was also affected by the Constitutional Court’s decision, as the current implementation of the institution by constitutional action tried to improve the six family assistants in separate actions. In the last six years, family assistants have been working hard to regulate their status, but changes to their legislation have also occurred in the area of the level of the right to partial loss of income payment, which has otherwise been set at the level of the minimum wage. In 2007, the Social Protection Act introduced a revised way of financing their work, by which the rights of a family assistant are further financed by means of a disabled person up to the level of his or her capacity to pay and by means of the amount of the contributions of the debtors, thereby greatly reducing the number of family assistants, as we have already heard. However, by adopting the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households, the amount of partial payment for lost income and its coordination, irrespective of the provisions of the Social Protection Act, amounted to some kind of departure from the rights already acquired by family assistants. Therefore, taking into account the usefulness and importance of this mission, the adoption of the proposed novelty is essential and important. It is intended to regulate or harmonise the partial loss of income payment, which is to be determined in a compromise manner, as has already been said at the outset, at 90% of the minimum wage. In this way, the amount of partial loss of income payment resulting from the non-conformity of the minimum wage provided for by the Minimum Wage Act and the current Act in question will be eliminated. It has undoubtedly resulted in discriminatory treatment of the recipients of the partial payment, since the minimum wage is now differentiated in this case in grave cases to those who received the decision to carry out their work prior to the entry into force of the law in question and to those who received it afterwards. In its entirety, the current situation does not merely reflect the uncertainty and non-conformity of the amount of the partial loss of income payment; it is also a matter of complete non-transparency in payments, as some of the amounts we have received from those affected to the parliamentary group are irrelevant or inadequate in relation to the existing legislation. In the Group of Members, we do know that this is not a long-term solution to the elimination of these anomalies. We therefore expect the competent ministry and the government to submit a law on long-term care and home-care insurance, in accordance with the programme, which will fully regulate long-term care for beneficiaries who, due to the various chronic conditions, the consequences of injuries and disability, cannot take care of themselves, so they need the assistance of another person. Although it has been promised that the issue will be resolved by the adoption of the Social Protection Act, which we are also looking forward to by the beginning of the implementation of the Act. In the Parliamentary Group, we will, of course, support the new policy as the proponents of the marriage novel, because we have managed to produce, in our conviction, a content that eliminates the inequalities and illogicalities described in the current legislation with common powers and cooperation from the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 21st meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 20.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u230	We continue with the 21st session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the voting apparatus. We are moving to a vote on the end of agenda 2 – this is to vote on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Digital Broadcasting Act, an urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law, and I inform you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government has warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. There are 67 Members and Members present. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. There are 68 Members and Members present. 68 votes against no one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third indent of the agenda – this is to the consideration of the Draft Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Excise, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 11. Mr. Zerjav, would you like to explain your voice? On behalf of the delegation? Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Nobody. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor, an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The main purpose of this amendment is to retain in some way the increase in excise duties that have been foreseen through this law. Let's remember August. When we adopted this law, it was clearly pointed out that this law would result in this, especially in the electricity segment, in order to burden the Slovenian economy with an additional 100 million, which would otherwise not be necessary. That's what we've been alerting you to. We've been alerted to specific cases. We have warned, for example, about the case of Vipap Krško, which would have an additional burden of EUR 2 million on the basis of this law. At that time, you did not take these warnings seriously. This time we change and return the same law, not to the end, but at least in some part of the excise duty back, we reduce it in short. And our assessment is that, given that the President of the Government has also mentioned several times publicly that this government will not increase taxes, it will not increase excise duties and will in short not impose additional burdens on economies, it is fair to keep this increase in excise duties as far as possible. And this amendment implies that we do not raise excise duties today, but raise them when the crisis is no longer what it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice? I'm giving you time to report. Who wants to explain their voice in a personal name? Mr. Marjan Bezjak, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u233	Nicely greeted! Thank you for your word. I am absolutely of this opinion to confirm this amendment and to keep it in the economic situation in which we are currently in Slovenia, so that we do not raise excise duties, because the Slovenian economy from day to day is on foot. According to yesterday's data, there are virtually 5,000 374 companies insolvent, and by raising excise duties we will make more illiquid companies. I wonder where this thing goes. I don't agree with that either. On the one hand, the Prime Minister says that they do not change, that the state will not raise prices and these things, and on the other hand, such and other laws always encourage the status of the country. In fact, we are working on an uncompetitive economy in Slovenia. Therefore, please confirm this amendment that we freeze the raising of excise duty for a period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading of the proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted. There were 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposed to me that the assembly should adopt, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure, the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Value Added Tax Act. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted. There were 63 votes against. [[The vote was 63.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance is suitable for further consideration. I see an interest in explanations of vote, first on behalf of the Group of Members. Please sign up on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Anton Urh on behalf of the Dessus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, I will also explain my vote. In the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. The Government has tabled a text in the parliamentary procedure that has not been aligned with the party DeSUS. In the DeSUS Group, we cannot agree to this and we do not support the proposed content until all our comments have been taken into account to stop the real decline in the value of pensions. We are aware that reform is necessary and necessary, so we expect our real comments to be taken into account in further procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u236	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State, everyone else is present! My colleagues and I have already stressed the importance of pension reform. This is certainly one of the more important reforms that the Slovenian state is facing, and which must also be prepared and urgently adopted in some true form. As a result, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not oppose the law at first reading, but we expect at least some of our constructive comments to be taken into account. In particular, I would mention that the reduction in age at retirement should be recognised to mothers for all children, not just for three. So we can't agree that mothers, if they retired early because they were born, for example, four, five, six, luckily, children, would endanger the pension and state treasury. It's some kind of positive mother discrimination. We expect the government to make appropriate amendments. And our second demand and expectation is that you will unite in the coalition under this law. An important law such as pension reform, such as the pension-disability law, must have a green light in coalition, a common position. Without this for sure, the fate of this law will not be the one we expect positive results from in the coming years, but in the coming decades. So, as we say, in the parliamentary group, we will not oppose the law, and I expect at least these two things that I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I see multiple applicants. Please, whoever wants to sign up. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I cannot support this law because it is strongly anti-working and anti-retirement. Minister DeSUSa has drafted a law against the rights of pensioners and workers. I hope that no worker or pensioner in Sunday's elections will support the mayor's candidate supported by DeSUS, because there are hypocrisy, anti-employment and anti-retirement policies in DeSUS, even though they move and speak differently. DeSUS's minister is the author of this marriage. Therefore, the bluff of the Group of Members is a fraud. Today, a ruling Member said that pension reform must be supported in order to preserve the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already lost the social state at the expense of workers and pensioners. You can't support her anymore because you support the tycoons and those who rob workers and pensioners. Your mayor has repeatedly pointed out that Hilda Todo must be closed. Yet, none of you have ever said that warm, corseted, and shards must be closed, which have taken thousands of times as much for themselves as they do for a thousand times as many sins! When you put one of these in prison, then your words about the social state are at least a little bit true. You move around, you lie to people, you lie to workers, you lie to pensioners. Stop it! This reform must be prevented at this stage because it is at the expense of both pensioners and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, you have abused the right to explain your voice, not for the first time. I didn't want to interrupt you because this would only give you the chance to behave improperly. The explanation for the vote is to state the position, not to be accused, but even less to a voter's agitation. You know that very well and have acted improperly. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the next word. I ask Mr Ziherl and the others not to speak in the way that Mr Jerovšek spoke. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I myself will not support this proposal, because I do not think it is sufficiently professionally justified. Above all, it would be based on the fact that similar processes are taking place throughout Europe. In France, where living standards are much higher, they talk about retirement age at about 62 years of age and so on. However, we do not have a proposal for a law, nor does it comply with the social partners, nor does it take into account the specifics of our transition country. The adoption of the law would mean a leap into failure. People aren't ready for such big changes. They have neither financially nor prepared themselves with all previous measures. And it would be a shock in a time of crisis, which is the specificity of Slovenia, because they are already getting rid of it elsewhere, but we are just sinking further because of some processes that I will not mention. In this crisis situation, a clearly unfinished law and a law that is not in line with the social partners does not show acceptance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u242	Mr Bogdan Barovic will explain his vote. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u243	The law we are talking about is due to more than 130 million unpaid contributions to the pension fund. The law we are talking about is the result of more than 130 000 unpaid workers. The law we're talking about is the result of millions of missing from the pension fund that we don't know where. The law we are talking about is inconsistent with the social partners. The law we're talking about is inconsistent with employers. The law we're talking about is inconsistent within the coalition. The law we're talking about will write fate to countless Slovenes and Slovenians. Some will live in their lives after the end of their work very well, while others will not even end up in retirement. Instead of taking the time, bringing the law into line and bringing it into line, because it is a law that will last a long time and write fate, I stress once again, to all Slovenes and Slovenians, instead of worrying about getting stolen millions back in this country, instead of taking care of new jobs, that the ratio of three workers to one pensioner will be fixed again. I'm sorry, there will be no such marriage as Bogdan Barovich and he can't support it. Just like my colleagues don't. I'm against it!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As has already been said, we will not oppose the law. My colleague, Jakob Preseknik, has already told us all about the mother question. However, I must say that in Slovenia, most likely even in Europe or the world, we will need a new social agreement. Because the way societies are developing in the world today is certainly not going to move forward. If we are getting older, we are getting older, and we will need to adjust accordingly. Today there was also a lot of talk about how guest workers would work in, I don't know what years and so on. And I think the clientele will change too, so that we too will be significantly older when we arrive there. But there's something else I'd like to say. State pensions are the ones for which, in the second reading, below, I will not support unless this matter is settled. We were also talking about military service. The time I spent in the army, I forget, I don't insist on it. But I'm going to insist on state pensions. So I don't object to another reading. Now I'm saying what I'm going to object to if we don't come together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law before us today is not just about workers and pensioners today. I think it's a matter of concern to the workers and pensioners in particular. I think that intergenerational solidarity can only be talked about convincingly and thoroughly by someone who, in addition to a shopping cart through life, pushes a baby cart or a wheelchair. If it is necessary today and tomorrow to decide that we will put less in a shopping cart, that we will be able to drive some more baby cart tomorrow and tomorrow, and that when we get fucked on a wheelchair, I will, of course, support this law. How else can I look my children in the eye?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We move to a vote on the proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against 17. [[38 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the disabled as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia – a short procedure. Since the amendments to the draft law have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It's 67 votes against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, the Parliament will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the operation of the Ljubljana Bank. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 23 votes to 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Borut Pahor, to Zvonko Černač's question on silent companies and silent associates, which operate with companies owned by the majority or with companies in which the country has a control stake. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question by Mr Bogovic on the reorganisation of Slovenian energy. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal for a decision was not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonka Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnić, to the question of Mr Zvonka Lah on the experimental calculation of the value of real estate. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Magajne, the Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Darje Radic and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mag. On the question of the Slovenian economy protection against low-priced products from abroad, Mr. Andrej Magajna asked. Mr. Magaina, please! Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Since there were not many Members in the Chamber, I think this is a very important issue, as the Minister herself confirmed, how to protect the Slovenian economy from flooding low-cost products from abroad in order to shorten. It is a matter of protecting ourselves against unfair competition of unfair competition products. Mrs Radic already confirmed in the introduction that this is a very complex issue. And even in her personal opinion, there is a very important issue that needs to be discussed in the public at large in the future. This is a very difficult matter, as it concerns both the rules of the international expert organisation, the European Community and also our specific measures in the field of agriculture, how to actually protect the national economy from flooding products that undermine the real sector. The real sector, however, is the basis of our identity and also our sovereignty. I ask for your support in this debate. One month is the time to prepare ourselves thoroughly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u250	We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. [[advertising from the hall]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for order and peace in the hall. It applies to all those who yell first, and those who yell back. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of mags. Rejoice on the effectiveness of the justice system. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. In line with Parliament's proposal, Mr Jeraj will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mags. Dejana jedan to the question of Mr Jeraj on the procedure for the adoption of spatial plans. You want to explain your voice? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you. Yesterday I asked both ministers about the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana. From the moment we started doing this on the investigative committee I run, a whole bunch of procedural errors have been identified. In view of the fact that Minister Žarnić and also in general that it is somehow considered that the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana is some kind of "guest" for all other municipalities, i.e. for the adoption of spatial plans also in other municipalities, it seems good to draw attention to those things that are wrong. In the inquiry commission, we informed the Minister of many documents that he did not have and would be necessary for his decision. We warned him about this and asked him how he intended to act. We haven't received any specific answers from Minister Žarnic. Even to the E.R., so additionally, when he promised certain answers, I only got this yesterday despite the deadline. Unlike Minister Židan, who, in spite of everything, announced that he would check things a little more and also initiate appropriate procedures if he found that anything in the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana had not been adopted in accordance with the guidelines given by the space regulators. Since this is a very important document, because virtually most municipalities are waiting for such a document for their municipality, and in the case of the Municipality of Ljubljana, things were going on explicitly, and because there were no answers to all the questions, I suggest that we discuss this, i.e. the answers of both ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you very much. We're voting. 61 MEPs and MEPs voted. 19 voted in favour, 41 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Dr Rok Žarnić to the question of Mr Jerovška's question on ensuring safety against the ecological disaster. Mr Jerovšek, explanation of voice. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u253	I will explain my voice because this explanation was flawed because I want the Slovenian public to be informed that there are managers who have been your party's candidates and associated with them some Members and so on, Members of Parliament's names, going to profit from the general danger that it may happen to flood the Dravo field, that lives will be lost in Kidrič, Talum. Such toying with human destiny is irresponsible and does not go anywhere in the whole world. Your only client supports this and your clients. And this needs to be stressed and I hope that you will support once that some are almighty, that they can afford all the spoils of all the money at the expense of society, at the expense of the general danger, because red mud, 2 million tons of red mud in Kidrichev, is if you "touch" it in English, it is a general danger because of the physical properties of tixotropia can turn into liquid. And that's what happened in Hungary, the disaster that caused the loss of life and the general disaster. And if profits and profits are at the expense of the state before, against the interests of society and the protection of lives, then I don't know where we're going in this country. It is necessary to say clearly and loudly, some of your people are going about illegal things in this country. And I urge you to vote in favour of the general debate, because this must be done away with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 60 votes in favour and 60 votes in favour. 19 voted in favour, 40 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Darje Radic's question on the question of Marjan Bezjak on the proposed additional burden on the economy, entrepreneurs and farmers. Here you are, Mr. Marjan Bezjak, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. Yesterday I asked the Minister how she looked at it and how she would protect it, given that the government was proposing a law, an additional burden on employees with 10% growth in 2016. A day-to-day economy. Businesses actually go bankrupt or fire workers from day to day because we are not competitive. We ourselves know that in Slovenia wage burden is at the highest point of the world rank. These things should be completed once and for all, and we should start thinking about lowering tax rates. Dispel para-national institutions and provide funds to the economy for the development and employment of people in the economy, not in institutions that do nothing good, but only cost. That is why I would like the debate in the National Assembly to be precisely from this point of view, as we are becoming an increasingly expensive country in the world, not just in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 62 votes in favour and 62 votes in favour. 19 to 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night!
