ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Renata Brunskole from 2 p.m., Janja Klasinc, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 13 to 17 p.m., Milenko Ziherl, Roberto Battelli and Franc Jurša. I welcome everyone here. At the beginning of today's session, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Paul Gantar, at the 20th anniversary of the adoption of amendments 96, 97 and 98 k of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the Assembly carried out the intentions of the Declaration of Sovereignty, established a decision on the service of the military term, on the territorial defence and the appointment of its commander. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, respected citizens and citizens! This year we celebrate many important anniversary and allow me to recall yesterday's 20th anniversary of the adoption of the constitutional amendments before the 20th regular meeting of the National Assembly. By the way, exactly one year earlier, on 27 September 1989, the current Assembly of the Socialist Republic also adopted a comprehensive set of constitutional amendments that have driven democratic constitutional changes towards a free market economic system and pluralist social regulation. This was also one of the important steps on this path. We have therefore remembered this year the adoption of constitutional changes that have allowed a democratic breakthrough and the rise of pluralism. The process of democratisation and creation of the Slovenian state has been a long-standing process that has been taking place gradually, taking many fundamental changes that could not have occurred overnight. The changes required a shift in thinking and understanding of the options available for the future of the Slovenian people. Only by crossing the so-called mental frameworks and by fully realizing that we are capable of embarking on the path of independence could actions be followed. As it is said, on 27 September 1990, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted new constitutional amendments which were extremely important for the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. they have led to changes that we could all also feel on our own, and they have also been a great incentive to move forward, since as a clarification of certain points of the Declaration on the Sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, they have clearly drawn a path towards independence, a path that Slovenia should take in the future. With these constitutional amendments, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has provided that the provisions of the SFRJ Constitution, which are not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, are not applicable in the Republic of Slovenia. That a number of previous federal regulations in the Republic of Slovenia do not apply and that the validity of federal laws in Slovenia requires the consent of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It also stipulated that in the future we will decide on our own way of serving the military and territorial defence and its commander. The amendments adopted have put relations with the Federation on the table. Thus, fundamental changes and such an uproaring future of the Federation were directed that the federal pressure plows tried to force Slovenia to call on the measures taken or amendments adopted. Nevertheless, the development of our statehood continued because we were determined to protect and enforce the right that it belonged to us — the right of the people to self-determination. Your Honor! Our independent path consists of a variety of events, procedures and acts, without which our statehood would be impossible to suppress and realize. And because of this, we owe more attention to these events, events and people, and not just to the anniversary of this year. Thank you very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your address. [[Applause]] to address the important anniversary of our independent and independent country. [[...]] This brings us to the continuation of the regular meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE SURVEILLANCE LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE The draft law was put before the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Dr. Frances Križanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u4	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly, honourable President! Allow me to briefly present the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. The purpose of the bill is as follows. It divides into five points. For the first time or for the first two points, it is a matter of removing all doubts that it is the law and that the regulation of insurance in Slovenia is in any way contrary to the rules of operation of the European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and our membership in the OECD. In this context of the law, we withdraw the provision that requires at least one member of the administration to have a centre for the realization of their life interests in Slovenia, while at the same time allowing all insurance companies from the areas of OECD Member States to market their services directly in the field of maritime, air and transport insurance in Slovenia. This will further liberalise the Slovenian insurance market, increase competitiveness and improve services in this area. The second set deals with the fight against insurance abuses, by law increasing the possibility of exchanging personal data, processing such data to prevent and detect negative phenomena related to insurance abuses. Here we believe that legal certainty in this area will increase, thus also lowering the price and making it possible to provide better services in this area. Furthermore, we improve the functioning of supervisory authorities in the supervision of financial institutions, namely, the law establishes a whole range of regulations that will improve the exchange of information between the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Securities Markets Supervisory Agency and the Bank of Slovenia. We have prepared, in accordance with a coalition promise, a project to bring together these three supervisors. The analysis – in particular the analysis of the special working group of the International Monetary Fund – has shown that this is simply not meaningful in legal regulation, but that it is necessary to unify the control methods, supervisory practices and information and then gradually achieve such a level in five to ten years so that the next step of unifying control can also be institutionalised. It is said that this law now lays the groundwork for unifying the methodological approach for the exchange of information and for uniform supervisory practices. At the same time, it amends the way in which the Director of the Supervisory Supervisory Agency is appointed, so that he will also be the President of the Professional Council, in order to demonstrate the uniformness of the supervision of this Supervisor. The question of appointment is also raised. We raise, the proposal is to raise the appointment of a director, who has so far been appointed by the Government for a period of six years, to the National Assembly. From now on, according to the new regulation of the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, he has so far been appointed the National Assembly, but the proposal is that the Government propose it. So the government amendment is that, on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly appoints the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The most extensive part of the bill is the arrangement of the Mutual Insurance Assembly. Here we have had bad practice in the past, so we go into regulation, which is not normal in other systems, is due to our specific situation. However, this practice is very much processed in professional literature, by establishing the possibility of managing through the assembly of all members of each other or through the assembly of representatives of members, and we claim that they usually do large mutual insurance companies in the statutes, and we are already in law that if the mutual insurance company has more than a thousand 500 members, then it must establish a assembly of representatives and members. There have been a whole series of amendments here, so these amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance, namely, the Government supports these amendments. In the Government, we do not support the amendments tabled, which exclude the Government from the appointment and discharge procedure of the Director or members of the Insurance Supervisory Board. As we say, we believe that the government must still be a proponent [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] and on the basis of this then in the National Assembly for the vote. [[...]] We support the other amendments tabled to the bill. Dear Members and Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act be supported. We also propose that, in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the second and third sessions be held at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The Committee's position will be presented by President Bogdan Chapič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 19th session. 9. 2010 It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on individual provisions and most comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to each article. Parliamentary coalition groups, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Zares Group and Ambassador Vila Trofenik have tabled the proposed law within the time limit of business. The Committee was also provided as additional material with the proposals of the Amendment to Article 14 of the Insurance Agency relating to the Mutual Insurance Company Assembly. These proposals are taken into account in the amendments tabled to Article 14 by Mr Villa Trofenik, Article 35 concerning insurance representation, in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups, Article 35 and Article 35 relating to the position of the Agency, its management bodies or decision-making bodies and means of work. With regard to the above proposals, the Insurance Supervisory Agency has adopted a written position of the Ministry of Finance setting out the reasons why the Ministry does not support proposals concerning the arrangement of the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly, nor any proposal to exempt the Agency from the application of the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on Public Finance and the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System. The Committee also received written proposals from Mr Bogdan Barovic for amendments to the 37th Article to take stock of the proposals of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Meetings of the Committee were attended by the Minister of Finance and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Agency for Insurance and Legal Services. In the debate on individual proposed solutions and amendments tabled, the members of the Committee paid the utmost attention to the provisions of Article 14 and to the amendments of Member William Trophynik, which, as it is said, summarized the proposal of the Insurance Supervisory Agency in relation to the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly. The proposals concerned, in particular, the use of the mixed electoral system, not the general election system for the Assembly of Representatives of Members, and the increase in the number of age classes for representatives of members from three to five classes, which is applicable to the arrangement of the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly, which carries out supplementary health insurance and life insurance. With regard to this proposal, the Minister of Finance stressed that the Ministry opposes the fact that the proposer has followed the guidelines adopted at the meeting of the Economic and Social Council in the preparation of legislative solutions, as contained in the proposed law, which is the abolition of the mixed system of elections and the reduction in the number of age classes for representatives to three classes. In the debate of the Committee, in spite of the opposing position of the Ministry of Finance, several concerns were expressed about the appropriateness of the solutions proposed by the Government. Taking into account all the arguments put forward in the debate, the Committee supported the solutions proposed in the amendments tabled by Mr Villa Trofenik and adopted its amendments to Article 14. The Committee has also paid considerable attention to the proposals of Mr Bogdan Barovic for the amendment of the Committee to Article 37, which summarises the proposal of the Agency for Insurance Supervisory, but refers to the exemption of the Agency from the application of the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on Public Finance and the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. The Committee's debate raised concerns about the proposals under consideration, which are also opposed by the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of both proposals, the Committee decided on two amendments to Article 37 and did not adopt them. In the context of the discussion on the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to Article 42, the Committee drafted and adopted its amendment to this amendment, which would provide for a greater role for the National Assembly in the selection of candidates for the Director of the Agency or in the appointment of its Director, since this appointment would, however, only be for formal approval of the Government proposal. Such a solution would at the same time, as has been pointed out, be a step towards ensuring the independence of the Agency. With regard to the amendment of the Committee, the Minister of Finance expressed his concern that the proposed solution would require further careful examination and it would be more appropriate to include the following amendment to the Insurance Act in his opinion. This is also a question of unifying these solutions for all financial supervisory institutions. The Committee then adopted a decision proposing to the Government that a review of the management and designation of supervisory and management functions in all supervisory institutions should be prepared within 30 days and that it should consider the possibility of preparing possible proposals for a simplification of the solution in this area. As part of its definition of the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled, with the exception of the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 14. He also accepted all the articles. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor to present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u8	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The proposed Insurance Act follows in particular the objective, for the first time, of removing the European Commission's doubts as to the compatibility of the existing Insurance Act with the European legal order and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, secondly, the comprehensive regulation of the issue of the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly, which has proved to be inadequate in the past, and thirdly, the harmonisation of national legislation with the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. Finally, it takes into account the Government’s decision to strengthen the participation of the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the supervision of financial services institutions, to improve the exchange of information between those supervisory institutions and to simplify supervisory practices in the control of risk management. For this reason, the proposed legal solutions regulate the direct marketing of insurance of foreign insurance undertakings in the Republic of Slovenia, remove the obligation of at least one member of the insurance administration of a share company in relation to the centre of the realization of the interests of life in the Republic of Slovenia, determine that the concluded insurance contract is shorter than one year than that of a member of a mutual or supplementary health insurance company, provide that the insurance assembly of a mutual insurance company with more than one thousand 500 members should be organised as a 45 representative assembly with the obligation to re-establish a third party for every two years following the system of incorporation, that the insurance assembly of a company carrying out supplementary health insurance or life insurance should reflect the annual composition of the company's membership, shall define the active and passive electoral rights of members of the insurance company, shall define the exchange of personal data in respect of the Board’s contested circumstances and shall reflect the rules of the Board’s governing body for the statutory rules of directors. In the second reading, the proposed text of the Act was supplemented and improved by numerous amendments adopted at the home body, in particular in the work relating to the system of elections to the assembly of the insurance company, the statutes of society and the functioning of the assembly of representatives during the transitional period following the entry into force of the law. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposed law, as well as the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The essential solution to the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Insurance Act relates to the functioning of the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly. The current arrangement of the Mutual Insurance Society has proved to be completely inappropriate. The main solution is that a mutual insurance company with more than a thousand 500 members must organize a congregation as a meeting of members’ representatives. This will prevent the two types of anomalies that have occurred in our only insurance company in the past, either the overlying or the association of the members of the congregation with the administration and the supervisory board, or the taking over of the supervision and management of the insurance company by a well - organized group. On the home working body, we devoted the most debates to the system of election of representatives to the assembly and number of age classes and unanimously adopted a decision that is even the most optimal in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party and offers the best compromise between the democraticity of the process and the economy. An important issue, which obviously remains open in the light of the amendments tabled, is the question of the independence of the Insurance Supervisory Agency or the procedure for appointing its Director and members of the Professional Council. In our view, the independence of the Agency must also be demonstrated through the process of appointing the leadership of this Agency. The argument that the Government must be an important member in the process of appointing leadership for the reason that it is responsible for the functioning of the Agency is simply not, in our view, sustainable. The responsibility for the functioning of the Agency shall be taken over by the management of this Agency. However, the appointment procedure shall not depend on any governmental proposals or instructions. We already know the procedures when the National Assembly independently conducts the selection procedures and we see no reason why this would not be the case. We will therefore oppose the attempt of the coalition groups of the parliamentary groups to return to the law the solution which has been changed on the Committee in favour of the Agency's independence to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The contents of the amendments and the addition of the Insurance Act cover a number of sets, eliminating the European Commission's doubts about the compliance of the Insurance Act with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, harmonising national legislation with international obligations in the General Agreement on Trade and Services and the commitments made in the accession negotiations under the OECD membership. It shall comply with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the participation of all three supervisory authorities in the supervision of financial services institutions, the improvement of information between them and the unification of methodological approaches to risk management and supervisory practices and the comprehensive management of the issue of the mutual insurance community. The last topic is certainly the most important area that we are trying to settle with this novel, as such events, which have recently shaken the Slovenian public and, above all, the insurance companies are mutual, must no longer be allowed. In particular, I should like to express my opinion that, after all, all these anomalies that have taken place in the Mutual Insurance Office, which offers additional health insurance to the vast majority of our citizens and citizens, are welcome in order to prevent the abuse and non-fulfilment of the mutual insurance policy in its mission from now on. The current arrangement of the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly, which includes around 870,000 insured persons in its insurance, has proved to be inadequate since the insurers and their interests in the assembly were inadequately represented. The reasons for this were, first of all, that such extensive membership of the congregation could be ineffective quickly because of the lack of interest in participation in the congregation, which is understandable, of course. It is not understandable, however, but it is even less acceptable that many abuses have also been committed by those who are supposed to represent the interests of the members, i.e. the insured. I will not mention the other weaknesses contained in the congregation’s current system of organization and functioning, since there is a whole set of them. The applicant has taken them and rescues them in the sense of a complete misdemeanour in order to establish such a system of assembly, in an organisational and substantive sense, to act as a representative body of all insurers. The initial proposal for a text of the solution relating to the mutual insurance assembly was slightly amended, as proposed by Ambassador William Trofenik and in agreement with all the members of the group. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a mixed electoral system, where the direct mode of elections prevails, is a system of co-optification in the interim electoral periods of the sixth term of the 45th Member Assembly, which, given the number of age classes of insured persons, expresses the appropriate representation of the interests of all insured and the high degree of democraticism, is also appropriate for us. In our Group of Members, we agree that it is also essential for this type of insurance to pursue intergenerational reciprocity and solidarity, and in this spirit the age structure of membership in society must be reflected as much as possible through the Society Assembly. We therefore agree with the position of the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the parliamentary group, which has actually supplemented the draft law that the five age classes represented at the assembly in this respect are more appropriate, and not least the number of mid-terms between the three classes that were originally proposed and the seven classes, which are in force in the existing regulation on the composition of the assembly of representatives of the company following the Health Insurance Act. In the DeSUS Group, we know that marriage is necessary. Since we believe that he is well - set, we support him, of course, expecting such things to be substantially different from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Polish Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good day to your friends and friends! Today, we are talking about amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, in which we have spoken comprehensively on the parent's working body, and I must say that we have also changed a few articles, important articles, and that we have felt an ad between the coalition and the opposition. Although colleagues have already stated what the objectives and principles of the proposal of this law should be, we assess in the Slovenian National Party that the decision of the Government of 8 April was essential, when it decided that the Ministry of Finance should prepare an amendment to the rules governing the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. This decision was important. It is even more important that this Decision is being implemented and that it is moving towards a goal that the Slovenian National Party with the amendment to Article 37 has sought to achieve. For we have proposed that the Agency should be exempted from the application of the Law on Public Servants, Public Agencies, Public Finance and Public Sector Wages Act. The explanation was clear because they have their own funding resources that this agency is subject to a completely different mode of business than any other representative in the public sector. As we have already said about the Government's decision, the Bank of Slovenia is also operating in the same way, i.e. the exclusion from the public sector, and why this would not be the case, but in fact the goal of independence, the maximum possible independence, would be achieved. Good. They were exposed to doubts. The amendment to this Article has not been adopted; it has been put into consideration. We say "nothing bad", but we are glad that the law has been changed in the part where the number of age classes for representatives proposed by the government from three to five classes between the 45th members has changed, meaning five different age groups of nine members, meaning that intergenerational solidarity is strongly raised and strengthened. We have gladly supported this change. We were also happy to support the change in the understanding, that is, the change in the members of the congregation. Well, of course, because everything on the working body was beautiful to be that way. Today we're witnessing the mess again. While we made a clear decision on the working body of the mother, how and who should appoint members of the congregation and the director, the amendments turned to the head again, pointing again to some politicization. Article 39, which stated that the Assembly should be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, is today being amended by the SDS colleagues, to be appointed only by the National Assembly. And immediately a counterpolitical blow on the other side of the Social Democrats, that where the 42nd article made it clear that the Director should be appointed by the National Assembly and by a dot, they added 'on the proposal of the Government'. I do not know why these political overtures and conversions are now necessary in Articles 39 and 42, which have been and have been adopted on the home labour body, which is, of course, our responsibility, as members of the home labour body, that we have now turned them over. I think, at the time, it was stressed and here I place in the ministry that it is necessary, however, for such institutions to say bob beans and say whether to appoint all the official council, some so-called official council, whether it should be the National Assembly or whether it should be the Government, if we are talking about independence. More about that in the amendments themselves. But we basically support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogdan Barovich. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. A friendly greeting, and a greeting to the representative of the government! What do you say? The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the amendments to the Insurance Act because they are necessary, because the biggest change is taking place in the area of regulating the situation of mutual insurance companies, which we consider to be good. It is about regulating the organisation of assemblies in mutual insurance companies, with a number of members of a thousand 500 or more 500, where the new assembly can only be organised as a meeting of representatives of members. Members’ representatives – I think it is important to stress once again. In the past, we have often witnessed various problems and alleged irregularities in mutual insurance companies or in our most exposed mutual insurance company. And as in many other areas in Slovenia, they were mainly limping about control and sanctions. In the field of assembly organisation, the current system has proved inadequate, since the Assembly of All Members has a very large number of shortcomings. This amended proposal of the law provides for mutual insurance companies to be organised by a 45-member assembly of representatives and to be allocated to 5-year-old classes. And these five age classes must reflect, I would say, the ratio of the age structure of all the insured in the Mutual. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia considers this to be an honest and appropriate mechanism, which in practice ensures that there is no predominance of any of the interest age groups and that it prevents the exercise of the partial interests of each age group. With such a system, we will be able to better protect ourselves from the various anomalies in mutual insurance companies, since mutual insurance as one of the foundations of intergenerational solidarity must provide security for all social groups and must be as fair and fair to young as to older ones. Therefore, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the solution to the use of a mixed electoral system for elections to the Assembly of Representatives of the Members, which means that every six years general elections are held in which members of the Mutual Insurance Society elect representatives of the Assembly of Representatives and after two alternate representatives for each representative in the Assembly of Representatives. After the expiry or expiry of two or four years, a third of the members’ representatives shall be replaced. This will certainly prevent too much unwanted association of representatives in the congregation with the Governing Council or, on the other hand, with the administration. This certainly enables better, more efficient, more transparent controls in practice, and thus certainly what we all want; the cost-effective, better business of mutual insurance companies, insurance companies that do not have shares, do not share profits, but are designed for the general good and satisfaction of all of us and, of course, in Slovenia, the majority of our population, as well as in the area of the 25 members of the European Union, are insured by more than 120 million people. In addition to this major, major change, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports other solutions related to the regulation of the direct marketing of insurance and, on the other hand, the processing or exchange of personal data, in particular in the case of disputed circumstances, in the event of a damaging event and other solutions that improve the functioning of the insurance company in practice. We also support the amendment because, on the proposal of the Government, the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency should either confirm or resolve the National Assembly. That is why in the Group of Members, we will provide votes in the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to support this proposal of good law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u18	Respected and respected! Social Democrats are convinced that it is crucial for the Slovenian people to be able to maintain solidarity in these critical times as a fundamental bond of our community. We are a small nation that, in a changing world, can exercise its interests for a more dynamic economy and a secure well-being for all our people only if we remain strongly connected to give solidarity between us a flight of creativity and security and protection to the weak. Even though many of our government's reform efforts are trying to make it a break for the social state, we reject that. Our reform efforts are aimed at modernising the social state to maintain stability and security for the present and future generations. It's a responsible policy. Solidarity is the basis of reciprocity and mutual insurance that services of public interest are accessible to all regardless of the financial position of the individual. We are therefore determined to strengthen mutual insurance, especially now that compulsory health care systems face increasing financial problems and become more and more important in the area of complementary protection, not only in Slovenia, but also in the European scale. In doing so, let us stress in particular the values on which mutual insurance is built. Free entry into membership, absence of shares in society, non-profit objectives, solidarity, democracy and independence. We are also convinced that this form of insurance must be strengthened by good legislation. To date, a solution in the representation of members of our mutual health insurance company can be said to allow for the full participation of insurers in the operation of the insurance undertaking, but only in the event that all members of this insurance undertaking are actually active. Unfortunately, this full activity has not been achieved, so the Mutual has become a hostage of the influences of the stakeholders involved in the management of the insurance undertaking, which was only possible because of the lack of organised membership in the system, which in fact prevented the effective participation of all generations. The Assembly of Members has shown a number of significant shortcomings, since the actual representation of members, among whom there is only a few interest in cooperation, is questionable and the Assembly becomes a minority assembly that decides on behalf of the majority. Less than the number of members of the Assembly, there is a greater risk of being overtaken by small interest groups to exercise their interests. This, in our belief, is a fundamental threat to the principle of reciprocity. The Association of Pensioners of Slovenia's Association is therefore seen as an exceptional measure, which has saved each other from this vicious circle and has allowed a new process to start, leading to a stronger and better insurance company in the service of its insurers. We therefore see it as a positive step, designed to bring the Mutual back to its roots, purposes, and values. It is now time for the National Assembly to change the composition of the Assembly, the electoral system and the relationship between generations, with amendments to the Insurance Act in order to ensure, at a systemic, normative level, the long-term stable management of the Mutual in the interests of its insurers. It is thus laid down that the mutual insurance company assembly, which has more than a thousand 500 members, must be organised as a meeting of representatives. The amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance set out five age classes in the Assembly of Representatives, which, according to the Group of Social Democrats, ensures the best balance between the best possible pursuit of the same interests and efficiency, namely the simplicity of the electoral process, including the mixed system of elections and the system of adoption. Such a solution, in our belief, leads to a better generational balance that will lead to enhanced intergenerational solidarity, which must also be recognized in mutual health insurance. This is understood as the key to the long-term sustainability of the mutual insurance undertaking, which will be ensured by the urgently needed partnership between generations. In this belief, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for amendments to the Insurance Act and present individual views on the amendments tabled for further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a proponent to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. According to her, there are minor changes and additions to the law and less difficult harmonisation of the law with European legislation, which according to the Slovenian Democratic Party contains some important substantive changes. The proposal for a law regulating insurance as an activity mainly concerns the mutual insurance company assembly and the position of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. In the grave, it's the next. The requirements concerning the knowledge of the Slovenian language of the members of the administration are preferred, so that at least one member must master the Slovenian language. The question itself is whether there is a similar regime in other EU Member States, especially in new ones, of course so that our citizens may have the same rights in another Member State if they wish to serve as a member of the administration. It would also be appropriate for new candidates, such as Croatia, to propose to regulate their insurance legislation in the same way or in the same way. Next. In mutual insurance companies with more than a thousand 500 members, the company must form its own assembly as a meeting of representatives of members, which is composed of 45 members and must, of course, also reflect the age structure that is allocated to the age classes. These are five and not three, as proposed in the basic proposal. In the SDS, we believe that this is certainly more appropriate, as this ensures a more equitable representation of insurers or members. According to the proposal, members of the Assembly, representatives of members, will be elected by a mixed system, which means that representatives of the Assembly and two alternate representatives will be elected at the general elections every six years for each representative. Every two years, however, elections will be held following the so-called system of adoption. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we defend the position that the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency appoints and disposes of the National Assembly without a previous proposal from the Government. Such a solution has also been adopted on the home committee by amending Article 72 of the Insurance Act, since in this case it would be only for formal confirmation of the government proposal. However, this is also a step closer to ensuring the independence of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to achieve, by amendment to Article 39 of the supplementary proposal, that the members of the Professional Council are also appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly, since the Director of the Agency is also President of the Professional Council. In this way the appointment is to be fully transferred to the National Assembly, as in the reverse case there would be two different procedures for appointing the Director of the Agency and the members of the Section of the Agency. Especially unusual, since the director is also a member of the Sectional Council by law. With the adoption of the Insurance Bill, the Director will act as the President of the Section of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that changes to the Insurance Act are necessary and necessary, as many of the anomalies that need to be prevented to the greatest extent possible have occurred in our only Mutual Insurance Company in the past. In the light of this, we will vote in favour of amending the Insurance Act and our amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we will not support the amendments proposed by a group of coalition members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 9. 2010 The amendments are tabled under Article 4. First, I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 39 and the amendment to this Article tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Mr. Likar, please choose your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you very much again for your word. At the time of the presentation of my position, I said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we advocate the position that the Insurance Supervisory Agency as a supervisory institution should be as independent as possible. It is said that the executive power could not have a decisive impact on who and how this agency will lead. Therefore, a proposal has already been adopted on the Committee on Finance as a parent working body, whereby the Director of the Agency is to appoint and resolve the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as it is said, represents a step towards greater independence of this supervisory institution in the field of insurance. And since the Council of Experts is also a decision-making body, it seems to us that the same procedures as the appointment of the Director should also apply to the appointment of the Council of Experts. Especially because, as it is said, the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency is also the President of the Professional Council, and so the appointment would be fully transferred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I propose that you support our amendment, where we propose that the members of the Council of Experts be appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia without pre-imposing a candidate by the Government. As with the updated proposal, this applies to the Director of the Agency. Otherwise, the appointment and discharge procedure would be different for the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and for the members of the Professional Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you. As I have already said in the opening presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, there is, of course, a need to say something about the amendment to Article 39, which is also indirectly linked to the amendment to Article 42. The fact is that it would still be the best solution for the Agency for Insurance Controls to be excluded from the public sector, as well as from all those agencies that have supervisory functions, because of their actual independence. But what it is is. And now there's a problem with this article. Indeed, this article states in the draft law that the Council of Experts appoints the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The amendment of colleagues from the SDS Group of Members deletes this proposal from the Government and thus wishes to stress some independence. On the other hand, we had a text under Article 42, which only refers to the appointment of a director by the National Assembly, but the Government is added. By proposing, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, the Government, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Public Administration, that it is high time for us to make a unity and order in this country. I think it would be best if we were already insisting that this agency remains in the public sector, that all the nomination proposals should be made by one official council within the Ministry of Public Administration to carry out the supervisory function. This official council would examine all these candidates, determine whether they are qualified or eligible for tender. I speak for all public agencies to have a single appointment and review. This Council of Officials would then propose to the Ministers and ministries those candidates for election that meet the conditions. That way, at least we'd have a single choice. However, as you can see, in this case, we remain on different shores, whether we are satisfied or not, and we are actually questioning the independence of the functioning of this public agency, which is supported or stressed, if I say otherwise, by international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund. So they're stressing the demand for independence. On the other hand, we must all admit that there is nothing wrong with the Government if it is the one who proposes someone as director or as members of the professional council. But you have to admit that independence is at stake here. Because it is logical for each government to propose a qualified person in its opinion, whether left or right. And whatever name someone who's mine or yours is once again, they're running out of room for independence. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment to Article 39. And I won't come forward later if you don't mind, Mr Vice President, but we won't back him up to 42nd. Nevertheless, I hope that Mr Minister has listened and that the Minister of Public Administration will listen and that this Government will be able to arrange the appointment through the official council in this mandate. There will be many fewer disputes and detentions in the drafting of new laws. Regardless of the outcome of the vote and the decisions of the Slovenian National Party, we will, in the end, support the law to help implement the Government's decision of 8 April of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Article 39? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Well, I also consider that this amendment, which we tabled under Article 39, would make sense, and in particular would have fully transposed this decision to the National Assembly. Look at how I would call it, whether some absurd or some pretend of this coalition is saying one thing, doing something completely different. More than once, we can listen to how you advocate transparency and independence, transparency in the appointment of a number of responsible people to responsible jobs, and then it is quite the opposite. Why not take this authority to the National Assembly to decide on such important functions here. I agree that the National Assembly is, not least, a political body composed of political parties. But what is the difference between this: is a matter decided by the Government or a matter decided by the National Assembly? Above all, the possibility that the public can participate in a completely different way as to how these matters are discussed is how these matters are decided. The government is essentially deciding in a closed circle, although some information is also publicly available, but in any way the public has no opportunity to learn about candidates, of choice, of concerns. While this is accessible to everyone in the National Assembly, it is public. And this is the key issue that would be in favour of deciding on these matters in the National Assembly. This proposal was also transmitted to the Government to decide on a proposal by the National Assembly. Unfortunately, it's a coalition service to the government. And what the government is proposing, but we know how it proposes. It's usually not transparent. Even that official council or KAS, as you called it, is often driven. It's not taken into account at all. It means that, on the basis of its narrow objectives, the Government decides and then the National Assembly or coalition fully confirms this without any substantial arguments. And it has often been noted that coalition members with compressed teeth are also voting for such or other pressures for those proposals. Therefore, such an amendment we have proposed would be a step towards making a decision that is significantly more transparent and independent. Last but not least, the other functions that we confirm in the National Assembly, from the Governor of the Bank to the Vice-Governor and all that is, these discussions are much broader here. They are also more constructive, substantive and, therefore, this amendment should also be supported. The Slovenian Democratic Party and I will support this amendment myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I no longer see the application for a debate on Article 39. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 42 and the amendment to Article 42 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Here you go, mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I've been thinking that I would have called at Article 39, given that my colleagues were also talking about 42. However, I would say that the solution set out in Article 42 concerning the solution to the appointment of the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency is not good, according to my assessment. We have talked a lot in this Chamber recently about the independence of the various agencies, especially the agencies that are being set up. I'd like to mention the one to which all state property is transferred. At that time, the word independence was particularly exposed, where we were convinced that the management of state property in this agency would be independent so that it simply could not be any more. Today we face the same dilemma. The Insurance Supervisory Agency is certainly an institution which must be independent so that it cannot be as simple as it is called. And this agency cannot be independent if the Director is appointed on a proposal from the Government. I imagine that this appointment will take place through infamous cash registers, humane accreditation councils, where there will be an appropriate, suitable, especially politically appropriate staff, and this will be proposed by the Government for appointment. I believe that no one doubts that the new human resources paradigm that has been foretold has been blown to dust and simply gone. Nor do these cash registers that have been established give the results as predicted, especially in recent times when directors are called after long and long periods of time, including those that are not politically defined and who are called directors in their seats, but are politically defined. In such a way that I believe that if we want this article to be a truly independent agency, we cannot support this amendment to Article 42 because it would be right or at least, if you want, better, more independent that the procedure for appointing both the Director of the Agency and the members of the Council of Experts should take place solely under the procedure of the National Assembly. I believe that this would be far more independent and I do not accept the argument that the Government is responsible for the functioning of this agency, but that the Government cannot be responsible, if this is an independent institution, for it cannot be. The responsibility for the independent functioning of this Agency shall be taken over by the management of this Agency. And as a result, if we are to appoint this leadership here in the National Assembly, the National Assembly. I don't know why the director's term changes to six years. There's no need. Is it perhaps speculation that the director, who may be called one way or another, will retain the following term of reference for this National Assembly or new government and that he will survive the next term or that he may be in the background of something else? In short, I see no reason for such important institutions to extend the mandates of directors, administrations and so on to a longer term. I think that four years is the right time for this mandate to be extended after four years and there is no reason for us to record in the law that this mandate can last for six years. So I will not support this article, so I will not support the amendment to this 42nd Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Likar and Mr. Frangež have still applied. I'm giving you time to sign up, please, whoever wants to discuss it, please sign up. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u30	I agree with the opinion of Mr Barovic, who, earlier in the position of the Group of Members, stressed that there was somehow a spirit of agreement on this point on the solutions that we are looking for for for a new regulation or a recast of certain elements of the regulatory regulation of insurance on the one hand, and of course also on the human resources solutions, the method and procedure for the appointment of the Authorities of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. In doing so, I should like to point out that I am personally quite inclined to raise some democratic standards in a way that the role of appointments in this regard will be performed independently by the National Assembly. In doing so, I do not want to raise questions as to how some are only becoming such great Democrats in this mandate, as the fact that these rich, interesting ideas have not been overlooked in the past when this law was also opened. Let us say at the time of the previous Government, when we could also establish in these institutions a new way of appointing these bodies with an emphasised or higher democratic standard. Even though I am inclined to do so, I am an advocate of the integrity of these solutions. I am very pleased with the decision taken by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which requires the Government to prepare an overview of the various practices that we have in the field of appointment, because it seems to me that from the agency to the agency, to the regulatory authority, to the next regulatory or supervisory authority, we have different practices in which, on the one hand, we have an emphasis on the role of the National Assembly, and in what role the Government plays. And it seems to me that it is important that these procedures, not only to ensure the greater independence of these bodies, but also to make it clear to each such body to our democratic public who appoints it and how we get to the exposed people of these agencies and, finally, to whom these people are responsible. And in this respect, however, I think it is a solution that we identified at the Finance Committee at the time to prepare this review, and then all similar cases will have the same solution, and I personally, as I have pointed out on the Committee at the time, am inclined here to strengthen these democratic standards and to play a greater role in this regard by the National Assembly. I will therefore support the amendment under Article 42 on my own. It is because I see that this is the way to come to a comprehensive and systematic solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. One more word for it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Amendment, we will not support Article 42 for the reasons already stated in the position and also in the amendment to Article 39. In fact, a decision has been drawn up and adopted on the home working body to appoint the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency to the National Assembly. The Minister also had doubts on the committee. Now we have this change in the form of an amendment that brings the matter back. I do not know why, because this has not been explained, why such a solution as was proposed and adopted on the parental committee is not good and why the coalition's proposal with the amendment is better. Indeed, such a solution could or could be obtained earlier, in previous mandates. However, I think that if the solution is good, no matter who or what mandate it takes, if this solution is good, if this solution is not proposed or not accepted, a solution for the solution. As we say, we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Some things have already been said in connection with this article 42 and why so. I think that this is an added quality to this appointment, if I think that the Secretary-General had previously proposed this, and the Government has only confirmed it and it was actually only within the Government. Now the government will be on the basis of a public competition – it is important to say that it is not only about appointment and choosing someone, but a public competition must be held. And that the National Assembly will have the opportunity, at least if not the other, to discuss this, regardless of what the coalition is and whether or not it will be. But he will have the opportunity to discuss, accept or refuse. He will also be able to refuse if the proposal is not coordinated with the coalition at least if not fully. From this point of view, it seems to me that this is an added value. It also seems important to me that we have adopted a final decision on the committee to see what these appointments are like with others. And as far as I know, it's already being prepared for the Securities Market Agency, where the same solution will go in this direction. This means that at least this part of the supervisory functions covered by the Ministry of Finance will be aligned with the appointment, not in the government, but with the appointment of leading or leading structures within the National Assembly. The National Assembly will know who and how he was chosen and will have this opportunity. From this point of view, I think it is extremely important that we take this step forward. That is why, of course, I will also support this amendment. I did not support the amendment that was adopted on the Committee, but, as it is said, the debate in this area was extremely varied. Many good solutions, including those that we could not agree with, whether they should be excluded from the wage system of public servants or not, to generate some income, some things. But they are created on the basis of taxes and on the basis of the regulations that the state has prescribed by law. So it's not something we'd get on the market, it's what's set. The other members of the coalition, who are here, are also worthy of support, especially because they are slightly more divided into congregations from three to five classes. And I think that the composition of the Mutual Insurance Assembly will in this way reflect more fully the composition of the insurers who pay and benefit from the services of this insurance undertaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The desire for a debate was announced by the Mag. It's a crane. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not accept the argument if any reasoning is logical to then argue in a way, "but why didn't you do it in the previous term"? I am a relatively short time in this policy, and if we continue to think about "why hasn't this been done before" so that we don't change things for the better, we don't feel good. I think it's right to think with our heads and to point out things that don't seem logical to us. But let's stop for God's sake once with the arguments, "why didn't you do it when you were in power"? If that were the case, then some political parties, or virtually everyone sitting here today in this National Assembly, should not propose anything new anymore, because this argument would always endure, why you did not do so already when you were in power. I think that is why we are here, to think with our heads and to listen to things to improve also on the basis of the experience we receive, the bad and the good, which we also receive in those mandates where we were alone in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež still wants to. I would ask nicely if this is the main topic of when something can be proposed and when not, then we should stop as soon as possible because this is not directly related to the amendments. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u38	In fact, when I said that I don't want to wonder how some people have now become such big Democrats, I didn't actually have mags in mind. We're eating and I'm sorry if he recognized that. In principle, I fully agree with you. It seems to me that this cannot be a reference point for the decisions we are making today. However, given that, even with the proposal, the original proposal of this law in one way or another, we are strengthening this democratic standard, I am asking this as a legitimate question in this regard. So we're moving forward now. Of course, it is possible to understand that some in this National Assembly would like to take a slightly bigger step, but I think it is important to stress that we have made progress already with the original bill on the Finance Committee and have taken another important step forward here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Since I'm still seeing the application, I'm giving you time to report. Here's who wants to sign up. Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I have to say that I agree with thinking that we need to look forward, looking back into the past is not helping us, is not saving anything. Of course, in Slovenia we have to work not only in this area governed by the amendment and I support it, but also in order to find the best human resources solutions in all areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for an application. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 42. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment to this article, which has been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. POINT OF THE DAY - THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE CAPITAL SOCIETY AND THE INJURY POLICY OF THE DESCRIPTIONAL AND INJURY SOCIETY AND THE SLOVENIA RESPECTIVE SOCIETY POLICY OF THE CAPITAL SOCIETAL AND INJURY SOCIETY AND SLOVENIAN RESPECTIVE SOCIETY UNDER THE MODERN PROCEDURE. The bill was tabled by the Government. For further explanation, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Frances Križanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members, honourable President! Allow me to briefly introduce the changes to the law. At its 19th meeting, on 13 July 2010, the National Assembly held a second reading of the proposal for a law on the transformation of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society and the investment policy of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society. In the context of this examination, amendments to individual articles and the deletion of the entire second chapter relating to the transfer of rights and powers from DSU to the Court of Justice were adopted. According to the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society. A proposal for a law achieves a more transparent and effective policy of direct and indirect ownership of financial assets, as a consistent delimitation of ownership functions is carried out than a regulatory one. The aim of the law is to enable the Republic of Slovenia to effectively pursue the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia without prejudice to the interests of beneficiaries currently protected by Kad and the Court of Justice and to ensure the effective management of companies owned indirectly by the Republic of Slovenia. This law covers the policy of direct and indirect management of state-owned enterprises, which began with the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The State authority responsible for managing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia will, on behalf of and on behalf of Kad and the Court of Justice, exercise ownership rights in enterprises to be defined as strategic and in investments where Kad and the Court have a total share of more than EUR 40 million. The acquisition of new investments is limited to 5 % of the share of the company. This then calls for dispersion, making it possible for Kad and the Court in new companies to be only a portfolio investor, except for this strategic work. The law regulates the transformation of Kad by the construction, exclusion, i.e. by the establishment of a new company, it is an insurance company. Delineation will be done by transferring individual parts of Kad's assets to a new company. The newly established insurance company will be formed as a share company whose sole founder and shareholder is Kad. The insurance undertaking will carry out an insurance activity in accordance with the Insurance Act, which also provides for the possibility of managing pension funds. From the date of entry into the Court Register, the management of the first pension fund, the first pension fund credit fund, the closed mutual pension fund for public servants and the mutual mutual and pension fund shall be transferred to the insurance undertaking. The Fund for Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance remains at Kad as its regulation is part of the pension reform. The law also provides Kad with a long-term obligation to pay EUR 50 million to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which thus becomes the economic owner of Kad also structurally. In the second reading, the dilemma was raised as to why Kad is not decommissioned or a new pension company is formed and not an insurance company. The decision for the insurance company was taken on the basis of an explanation of the advantages and disadvantages of both options. It was found that the pension company would remain legally limited to pension fund management and that the insurance company would have to expand its business by law, create appropriate structures, analytical, informational, management. And on this basis, it also brings greater value to the insurers. It allows the creation of reserves or reserves of capital from retained profits and thus reduces the need for recapitalisation. The law lays down the manner in which Kad and the Court of Justice exercise their rights and make available their investments and the rules governing the acquisition of new shares and shares. This ensures the protection of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in strategic investments owned by Kad and the Court of Justice. At the same time, it also provides the Court with assurances to the Republic of Slovenia that it will be able to settle its obligations. We propose that the National Assembly endorse the bill and, in the second reading, adopt it definitively to combine the second and third readings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. The introduction of the proposed law states that the aim of the law is to enable the effective pursuit of the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia without prejudice to the interests of beneficiaries currently protected by Kad and the Court of Justice and to ensure the effective management of companies owned indirectly by the Republic of Slovenia. This law is intended to round up the policy of corporate governance in state, direct and indirect ownership, which began with the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act. The issue of the management of state property has already been mentioned in the adoption of the Capital Investment Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law constitutes the consequence or more necessary regulation in accordance with the law already adopted. However, whether the proposed law will achieve the objective set out in the introduction. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that not. The conversion of Kad is reduced to the breakdown of the insurance company as a share company. The management of four pension funds is transferred to the new insurance company. When establishing a new life insurance company, the applicant does not answer any question as to whether it would be better to establish, in accordance with the law defining the functioning of pension companies, that is, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, a new pension company which would manage pension funds for public servants, as a specific pension company, specifically for public servants only. In a way, it seems to us that a new mutual insurance company is being established in a hidden way. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the establishment of a new insurance company in a situation that is ruled by the government of Slovenia in the field of insurance is completely inadequate. With such a solution, we are artificially creating completely unnecessary competition in the Slovenian insurance market. Instead of supporting an existing insurance company, which is also state owned. For this reason, we will support in the Group an attempt to amend Article 2 of this Act, which, instead of the exclusion of a new insurance company from Kad, provides for the exclusion of a pension company in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. I repeat. The intended solution is inappropriate. Slovenia does not need a new insurance company, so our support for the law depends on supporting the solution I have just discussed. We will not support the law, such as it is, in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the transformation of the capital company. Given that the content of the draft law was substantially reduced in the second reading at the meeting of the parent working body and that provisions were deleted from the law providing for the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society, it is necessary to discuss the different title of the law in the light of the envisaged support for the law. In the DeSUS Group, we agreed to delete the provisions relating to the transfer of rights, powers, assets and obligations of the Court and the DSU from the law. The bill was a good time to stir up spirits by replacing the basic concepts of profession, politics and the public, even before it was introduced into the parliamentary procedure. Despite all the efforts of the proposer to harmonise the content of the matter with the expectations of all actors and at the same time to find optimal solutions to ensure an adequate and long-term secure policy of state-owned property management, the law has also undergone extensive modification in the legislative process itself. When it comes to meeting the fundamental mission of a capital company, this is the management and management of the work of the former social property created by the retired generation and to which the labour, active population continues to contribute today, the protection of the interests of the beneficiaries is particularly important. In part, there will be greater respect for the mission when it applies with the help of a new agency. In addition, this law is intended to allow for a more transparent and efficient and, in particular, a secure policy for the management of financial assets owned by the Republic of Slovenia, both directly and indirectly. The latter will also be enabled through a consistent organisational separation of the basic assets of Kad from the property of pension funds, voluntary and compulsory supplementary insurance, which we welcome in the DeSUS Group. By reshaping when you will separate his key functions. Long-term provision of additional pension funds and the management of various forms of pension funds and the payment of pensions. The proposed conversion thus provides for the sharing of these key functions in a way that additional pension funds, through the establishment of an insurance undertaking and the transfer of individual parts of the assets of Kad and the transfer of all rights and obligations of the transferred part, will receive a basis for further development of supplementary pension insurance. The law also sets out the obligations that Kad to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, i.e. up to the first pension pillar. In the DeSUS Group, we welcomed the firm commitment made by Kad to provide annual amounts of PPIZ funds, which are indeed a drop in the sea of resources that must be provided additionally from other sources, not from paid contributions to the cash register, which unfortunately, due to measures taken in the past over all these years, has been reduced by several billion euros, in fact to repair, the pensioners have been deprived. If I only mention the last measure of freezing the coordination of pensions, because there are insufficient funds in the state treasury, which is also a source of funds for the provision of decent and well-deserved pensions. At least this 50 million will be transparent and for a precise purpose, namely the harmonisation of pensions, according to the pension fund. For this reason, too, we will strongly oppose the anticipated freezing of pensions in the future, as we will have at least part of the resource provided and intended for the coordination of pensions on the basis of such a definition. If the regular coordination of pensions requires more resources than Kad will provide, however, it is unacceptable for us to answer that the public funds of this duty to pensioners could not be provided, since it is not possible to simply ignore all the tycoon stories, the high discharges received by public officials in a state-owned society, all the capital leave in order to ensure healthy and new jobs that are not available to thousands of people today. The evidence we received in previous discussions in the direction of seduction of pensioners is not on the table, especially because we have pointed out the commitment under the coalition contract that would allow the assets of Kad to be transferred to the ownership sphere of the PPIZ. Unfortunately, the fulfilment of coalition agreements does not always go in the right direction, which is not to be attributed solely to DeSUS. In the DeSUS Group, we also welcome the addition of the provisions of Article 2 of the Law, which speaks again, in our view, of the complete composition of the Kod Supervisory Council. The proposal, which was initially added to the table by the applicants, also followed in its text the full interest of the representatives of individual groups in relation to the mission of Kad and the protection of the interests of the beneficiaries. Therefore, trade unions should also be included in our proposal and the relationship between the three would be the same. Members of the DeSUS will support this law together with the additions we have signed, but with a bitter taste, knowing that it could be done for the secure stability of the pension fund even more and in a way that there would be no need to bear the burden of the crisis on the shoulders of pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Once again, it is good to say precisely that, in fact, the bill we are talking about is the result of a government decision of 23 July 2009, when the Government adopted a government-owned corporate governance policy and formulated this policy in three stages, the first part of which was the proposal for a capital investment management law, the second part of which we are talking about today, but thank God, only one piece. As you know, there have also been many words about the Consulting and Management Society, namely the transfer of the rights and powers of this company to the Compensation Society. That's what we got out of the law, thank God. I say thank God on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. And the third part, when we know that we have already decided that the Capital Society and the Court will be transformed into a new society. Therefore, this law should regulate the transformation of Kad’s company by way of an enumeration. A new company is expected to be excluded from Kad, and this is supposed to be an insurance undertaking which is expected to carry out an insurance activity in accordance with the Insurance Act, as well as an integral part, to be able to manage pension funds. Everything's fine and well, and from here on out, if we just look at things, and if we're honest, it asks us a few questions. For example, which life insurance business is to be carried out by this new insurance company. Which other insurance transactions are to be carried out by this excluded insurance company in general. If it operates with pension funds, it is very important to ask why capital of 152 million is needed, but if sufficient capital is essential to secure the management of pension funds. And also open questions, to which - unfortunately - we did not get an answer on the parent's working body. I have heard from the predecessors that they are pleased with the contents of Article 6, which says that every year, until 30 September at the latest, Kad ZPIZ has to charge EUR 50 million. But I don't know why this respected assembly didn't want to hear whether it had deliberately or otherwise heard the right warning from the Slovenian National Party – again, I warn – namely, the 50 million mentioned in Article 6 is, as far as we know, set on the basis of an 8-year average, and back to back, an 8-year average when it was, let's say, Slovenia was then very rich, the times were great, it was booming the economy, the money was enough. We have warned that this 50 million, which is the average of 8 years of "rich state" – in quotations – in Slovenia, will not be so easy. Nine every year to direct the PIZ, if it's even possible. And then we didn't say we were against it, it's right that this is how we proposed an amendment in which we wanted the responsibility of this country. So if it were to happen that because of the situation he is, he would not be able to transfer this 50 million to the PIZ, he would answer that money would come to the PIZ, the state, or the government. We tabled this amendment, but of course it was rejected. I don't know now because we're like the opposition, but we made this amendment as a constructive opposition. I am speaking on purpose at the time of this Act's consideration of Article 6 at the most. In addition, I will, of course, mention in Article 2, that the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board is defined in the statute of the insurance undertaking and we think that this would be provided for in this law, not in the statute of the insurance undertaking. Of course, there is another issue raised by the employees of the Capital Society as well as Article 2 [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] concerning the appointment or composition of the Supervisory Board. Many open questions, there are no answers to them, so we cannot support this law in the Slovenian National Party, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings again to the minister and coworkers! When we tabled this law, it was conceived as a partial transformation of the Kada and the Court's para-state funds and the transfer of rights and powers from the DSU to the Court, which would certainly mean the end of the DSU. In the second reading, however, the law has changed, and so today we are witnessing to a law that sets out several things. First of all, the restructuring of the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance and the establishment of a new insurance company to manage pension funds. Another very important issue, the amount and manner of the annual transfer of funds from Kad to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Thirdly, the way in which the rights and limitations of use are exercised by certain funds of Kad and the Slovenian Compensation Company. I must say that we expected a little more in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, but nevertheless less ambitious, but we certainly support real and acceptable solutions to the current situation. That is why the law will get our support, because it seems important to us that we will improve the management of the pension funds managed by Kad so far, so that Kad can fully focus on his primary task of managing investments in the long-term provision of pension funds, which we feel is still necessary and important in various aspects. The debate has been varied and extensive, but I must say that we attach to the arguments that the insurance company can provide better management of pension funds than the pension company itself. We therefore support the proposed solution as well as the other solutions included in the proposal for this law. On the other hand, in the investment policy of Kad in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we still insist that Kad and his investment policy must be primarily married, guaranteed long-term pension financing, both for those who have already retired and those who will become in the short term. At the same time, it is now necessary to have solutions and clear assurance that we will also provide funds for younger generations. However, it should be borne in mind that the assets of Kad in total pension expenditure are not a key factor or an important factor. In our opinion, however, the opinion of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia needs to be increasingly focused in the coming years on ensuring the most efficient and efficient functioning of Kada and the Court as real portfolio investors, as history teaches us that we have been increasingly witnessing in the past that, through both funds, it has been determined when it is also distorted and not the most effective economic policy. And as we have already mentioned in the general debate, we avoid the management of public funds, public property, public money, in particular, the various excessive policy interventions that are already in practice and will, if this practice does not end, lead to a variety of controversial, questionable, non-economic and other actions. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today's adoption of the law on the transformation of the Capital Society, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Court of Justice and the investment policy of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Indemnity Society will end the reform of corporate governance at the normative level. Throughout the whole process of this reform, we have stressed that we see it as vital to finally achieve good, responsible and transparent governance of state investment, both directly owned by the State and those indirect, especially those managed by Kad and the Court today in our portfolio. The Capital Investment Management Agency will thus enforce equity also in companies owned by the Capital Company and the Court, which the National Assembly will define by adopting the strategy as strategic, as well as those investments owned by both companies worth more than EUR 20 million. This law also limits the acquisition of new investments to 5% of the share in society in order to achieve the dispersion of investment by Kad and Sod, thus a stable and safe investment policy in favour of the purpose for which both companies are set up. With these steps, we prevent any other government from understanding the state's property as an electoral booty, with which it would have had every authority at its discretion, and the staffing of administrations and supervisory councils would have resubmitted the only dedicated criterion, and that is the client's card. The past period clearly shows us what the extent of the damage to the political governance of businesses can be for individual companies and for the national economy as a whole. In other words: I am no longer selling businesses in the cabinet of the Prime Minister or ministers, as the cases of Mercator, the Slovenian steel and Iskraemec industries must no longer be repeated. Social Democrats, we reject such logic and such ambitions. We are determined to implement a new management model that will remove policy and economy in order to maintain the country as the owner of businesses, but this time as a good and responsible owner, which will manage businesses in the interest of long-term growth, the satisfaction of employees, social responsibility to the community and the benefits of public property. Therefore, corporate governance and supervision must be based on professional criteria and good corporate governance practices of state-owned enterprises in accordance with the principles of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability, without the influence of policy and individual stakeholders. The law lays down fixed liabilities to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, where Kad, as the manager of portfolio investments, will provide an additional source of funding for the first pension pillar. The proposed fixed liability for a pension fund of EUR 50 million guarantees that too much of the resources from Kad would not be squandered by its capital asset and thus the capital base for the strengthening of the pension fund for future generations as well. By law, we transform Kad into two parts, a portfolio investment manager in the function of long-term nobility of funds to finance the pension treasury on the one hand and a new fund management insurance company that Kad has previously had in management. In doing so, we stress that the law does not allow for privatisation. Only by adopting a capital investment management strategy will the countries determine which investments are strategic and need to be maintained in the majority ownership of the country, which, as portfolio investments, are subject to possible sales. Throughout the whole process, when the National Assembly adopted both laws establishing a new model of corporate governance of state-owned enterprises, we stressed that we need this reform in particular in order to improve the management of enterprises in the function of long-term nobility of state-owned property, as well as the growth of these companies, in order to make the country a good owner of enterprises, but at the same time the implementation of this reform has made it possible for Slovenia to become a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This is crucial during the period of economic recovery and the direct benefit of this membership will be given to Slovenian companies which, due to this membership, will also gain confidence and reputation in new markets where we are not yet sufficiently recognised. The adoption of high standards in the field of international investment, guidelines for the operation of multinationals and guidelines against bribery in international transactions will make our companies more competitive and the country more attractive and stable for foreign investors. Social Democrats will support the proposed law in the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u54	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! We have before us the proposal for a law to reshape the Capital Society. At the same time, what we have already said in the previous debates is that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group lacks a comprehensive approach to the Government, a strategic direction that would clearly give rise to how and how the future management of assets, state property, as well as the assets of those who invest in pension funds, thus assets that are the property of all citizens and citizens and that each authority receives only for effective and responsible management. The attempt and activities that we have witnessed in this mandate, especially the latter by setting up a public investment management agency and all other decisions of the current government, make it clear that the efficiency of the management of state assets is not the primary objective of this government, but that the primary objective is to relax those mechanisms that prevent us from reaching the third phase of privatisation and that those dedicated elites who are still waiting for this opportunity will be able to reach state property in the easiest and most valuable way. In the case of the law that we have before us today, this relatively long legislative procedure has also failed to explain a number of professional issues. The fundamental question was not explained why this strong desire to convert to an insurance company and why it would expose three existing pension funds and why it would expose a large number of fund contributors to these funds over the past years to a greater risk than would otherwise be necessary. We have not received these answers to date and the applicant has also not justified any need in the process so far why this conversion of pension funds should actually be carried out in such a way as to establish a new state insurance company. In the current proceedings, the law has also changed significantly. It is the whole part that speaks of the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Court, although this part of the title of the law is still not lined up. Thus, at the very least, this part of the law should be rectified by nomotechnic law. What is essential, however, is that in addition to the formal work, a number of questions remain unanswered. For example, there is no answer to the question of what is the State's strategy in terms of ownership in financial institutions, banks, insurance companies. We talked about this when we discussed the answer to the Prime Minister's question. Unfortunately, we have not received any concrete answers there, either by Minister Gaspari or by Minister Križanič, not to mention the Prime Minister. I think we are already used to the fact that the Prime Minister is repeating the same mantra and we do not get any answers to the specific questions that are vital to the further development of this country. We have not received an answer as to why the share of the new insurance company in the way it is now defined in the law is considered to be a strategic investment; what will be the business result of the insurance undertaking; what kind of return is expected from the relatively large investment of capital in the insurance undertaking, over 150 million euros; which insurance business will be carried out by this insurance undertaking other than the management of pension funds, etc. Nor has there been an answer to the fundamental question why a pension company should not be set up instead of an insurance company which would mean greater security both for those who will re-invest in these funds and for those who have paid up so far. And this is because of this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I think you will not accept, of course, which means that we cannot support such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It must also be said that the ruling coalition does not only do so but also works against its own pre-election and permissive commitments in many other laws. With regard to when you have entered into a coalition contract, you will reshape it by managing the property in order to provide funds for the pension fund separately, by ensuring the professionality and autonomy of the management of the state property and by transferring the property of this new organisation from the country to the ZPIZ, it is said, to the pension treasury. You don't do that. On the contrary, you are also taking what has been managed so far! One such case was the case in the Capital Investment Management Agency Act, where even a deleted article referring to the pension fund was also abolished by this law. Therefore, the opposition cannot support solutions contrary to your own commitments. The discussions so far have said that this law is intended to increase transparency in the management of state assets, unification and so on. None of this is going to happen. We already have Kad, we have the Court, we have the Consulting and Management Society, you're establishing a new real estate fund to manage the real estate of the country, a new institution to take care of this part. A bunch of parastatal institutions are established, which these institutions have further established, say, PPD at Kadu and so on. We have this new Capital Investment Management Agency. Now, from Kad, the part that relates to three pension funds is drawn up into three pension funds, and a new insurance company is set up. In short, a bunch of para-state institutions with a bunch of directors, administrations, supervisory councils, a lot of these and other well-paid experts. How in this system of octopuses, if I simplify, this management of this property will be transparent and how maximum effects will be achieved, I don't think it's clear either. I think that the way you propose by this law that we have on the table today is very far from transparent, cost-effective and efficient management of state property and that this law is not in the interest of those groups that are being adopted: not in the interests of pensioners, not in the interests of those employees who are constantly contributing to these funds, nor is this law in the interest of the State. All these are, of course, the reasons why we will vote against this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and we propose that we reject this law and that you come with a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group, we really support the governance policy of state-owned enterprises adopted by the Government in mid-summer last year, which is intended to ensure the efficient, efficient and transparent management of state-owned enterprises, which must also apply to Kad and the Court of Justice. The first step in this direction was the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, which allowed the preparation of a law on the transformation of the Capital Society, the transfer of rights and powers of the Consulting and Management Society to the Court and the Investment Policy of Kad and the Court. In the Group of Members, we have indeed supported the law at second reading, although we have never received sufficient clear answers to certain questions and solutions and possible alternatives, in particular with regard to Article 2 and Article 6 of the Law. In addition, we were not surprised when partial interests prevailed in the second reading and the part of the law that provided for the transfer of rights and powers of the Company for Consulting and Management in the area of Property Transformation of Social Property, Privatisation and Denationalisation to the Court, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a proponent of law, justified as one of the fundamental objectives of this law. With the aim of legalising partial interests, the third reading continues, namely the amendment to Article 2 of the Act, which refers to the modified composition of the Kad supervisory board. Since there have been substantial deviations from the basic guidelines adopted by the Government in the procedure for the adoption of the law, we will decide on the support or non-support of the amendment and the law by our own discretion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Willie Trophynik, would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. Very briefly, because this will not be enough time available. There's not much new to the second reading, but there is. I would point out that an accident occurred in this law, that it was a good intention to abolish the Consulting and Management Society in some way eliminated from this law. Thus, we now have an institution that – banally, simplisticly – cares for offices, bureaucracy, and we do not have the visas of an institution capable of protecting the economic infrastructure or assets that arise, say, in the bankruptcy of Mura, in the abolition of the sugar plant there in the eastern part of Slovenia and similar, which could serve to accelerate economic development. This is an anomaly for which there are no logical excuses, but we understand it or understand it as some partial interest that was able to provide the necessary majority in the second reading. Of course, it is the same with the warning that it has never been sufficiently clearly justified, why exactly 152 million of the basic capital of the insurance company. I do not open the dilemma of an insurance company: a pension company, it is clear to me that for an insurance undertaking in this way, by means of this capital, which is guaranteed, it is possible to provide relatively easy access to new products. But why is this at such a height, it was never properly explained and it was a shame that it was not, because if there are no clear and valid answers, there remain some unnecessary dilemmas. It is similar with Article 6. Those unfortunate 50 million, it is logical that the income from Kad is to partially cover the costs of pensions, if we make it very simple. Of course, in the structure of income or expenditure, however we take pension bills, this is a relatively symbolic amount. And that's why it's once again being put: why exactly 50 - or over the finger or because maybe that number was drawn? More than a number, however, the sentence in Article 6 that does not honor the law which reads: under the law governing pensions and invalidity insurance, which provides for the coordination of pensions, has been used for this coordination. One major embarrassment is to confirm such a sentence; we have a pension box — in this sentence consisting of two parts — one part for basic pensions and the other pocket for their coordination. Now, if we project for the moment, it's an interesting force. The government will come with the urgently necessary freezing of pensions, according to the local authorities. It is said that there will be no coordination and there is no logic. This sentence means that Kadu will have nothing to say to the pension fund and, on the other hand, the pension box is also for frozen pensions, I am on condition, in difficulty covering them. And this now fully illustrates the problem of this sentence, and this is one of the provisions that was, as a partial interest, or was enforced with some partial interests. This is one, the 152 million, I am deeply convinced, is the second, the amendment that provides the union of the sixth member of the supervisory board, is the third, and if it were still a little mean, I would still find a violent case or what has forced this law into the grip of some partial interests, which is not an honor to us for the quality of legal solutions. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Just for information. The capital transferred from Kad to the insurance undertaking, which remains owned by Kad, and proceeds from capital go into the income from Kad – When the economic owner of both the insurance undertaking and the property as a whole – has been converted from the capital adequacy to some average over the period of growth of this fund from a billion to 3 billion, as expected. At the same time, it is expected that it will also be able to recapitalise the retained profits so that the insurance company will maintain itself. This amount of 50 million paid by Kad to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance for the additional security of the pension register is calculated as a minimum, yet acceptable return, approximately 5% of the return on assets managed by Kad in a narrower sense. This is not, therefore, about the funds which have revenue earmarked for other beneficiaries. Although this property is constantly changing according to the movement of stock indices, in particular the Slovenian stock exchange index, so that sometimes this yield is slightly higher, sometimes less than 5%, and some on average it is, we think it is a bearable number, so it is not afraid of good management, that Kad will break down. We believe that on average it will reach at least 8% of the return achieved by such investment companies, and over time, it will continue to nominate and increase the base with these three additional percentages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u62	I don't think there's time for us to spend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u63	That's right. That's why I give my word to Mr. Keek. He's not here. Mr. Jerovska, not at all. Mr. Rezman – no. Vito Rožej – no. Bogdan Chapel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the solutions to the law that we have here today, at least I have mixed feelings about that. Above all, when we talk about the law that is now governing, and this part that remains in Kad with a fixed obligation to be imposed by the pension fund, I find it controversial – especially in terms of knowledge of dividend income and capital gains will be difficult to ensure without, of course, interfering with the structure itself or the capital itself. From this point of view, this has already been warned. I myself have advocated that this part, in particular, would be linked to how much it is created, so much is transferred with a fixed value, but it was some compromise. Another reason why it is very difficult for me to support or agree with the marriage is the creation of a new insurance company. In no way has this insurance company been presented, or at least it has not been told why and in what way. I could say myself that this is a pension insurance company because it will manage pension funds, and we already have a pension fund management system established that these can also be pension companies, which are property management specialists, which are also intended for this management. In all the discussions that took place at the time of the creation of this law, the basic guidelines for the operation of the new insurance undertaking were not presented and how it would achieve this profit or the profitability which it has also referred to now, the Minister; 8, 10 %, as far as capital investment or financial investment would be concerned, so that, of course, the capital of Kad would be adequately eloquent and would yield a certain return. All the time I have stressed that it is necessary for public servants to establish a special pension society. This is a large number of public employees who are saving within this, it was an agreement that, of course, they would also provide additional income savings at some point. This money is, I think, now about a billion and in the coming years it will certainly go up over a billion euros, which means that it is a relatively large sum of money, which must, of course, be treated with discretion and achieved as much as possible. If this is, in my opinion, a pension company that deals specifically with this means that it deals only with this, but not an insurance company that will look for some additional profits, some added market niche, while in Slovenia we have 12, 13 life insurance companies, of which two are also the largest in indirect state ownership, and also some other insurance companies. It is also true that, with the amendments we have adopted both on the committee and now, we give this insurance company some special status. This will not be an insurance company, a classic life insurance company operating under the Insurance Act, but we have added with the amendments that insurers will also be involved in the management of this insurance undertaking, which is right, of course, because pension companies are involved and we are talking about their capital that they have. Another time. With the amendments proposed today, we have also excluded workers to manage, managed this insurance company within the supervisory board, which is possible for other insurance companies. We have actually reached into one marriage here, another law that is possible for them, and this law has made it impossible for us to do so. This insurance company will not be set up with a cash deposit, which is a custom for such financial institutions, but it will be with a capital injection, with capital that exceeds the current requirement, I think, for three to four times; therefore, 152 million capital we transfer and it can be done in the long term. Then we have already defined the law as a strategic investment, regardless of the fact that the National Assembly has not yet discussed the criteria for strategic investment and what they are and what the criteria are. Of course, we will have one insurance company that manages pension funds, like a strategic investment, the other two state insurance companies that cover much larger shares, much wider, where of course capital and the problem are much larger, and that is unlikely to happen. Perhaps I could also list the solutions we are looking for in this law in order to bring this insurance company’s self-governance to a great extent. That is why, in the debate itself at the time, I proposed that we establish a pension company which is in the management of both Kada and now, where the insured would have, in accordance with the law defining pension companies, the possibility of participating as in some other pension companies, and where, of course, we would protect such assets as we have managed professionally, I am talking about a large pension society, and this has not been heard, and we now have in some sense also this amendment, which summarizes these discussions that we had on the committee. I will probably decide to support this amendment, especially because I think that public servants should have an organisation to take special care of this and thus allow this to be transparent, have the highest return and know who and how to manage it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. My colleague Čepič's debate will be interestingly compared to mine, because we have in some ways, we cannot say that it is precisely diametrically opposite positions, but different views on the same thing. First of all, I would like to talk about how we came to have such a law, which is now huddled, and the title will also have to be changed. I think that we have done something that is not very nice because we risked decisions or warnings from the Court of Auditors, which has already imposed on the previous government, and thus the current government, that it must also end it under the law establishing the DSU. And this law provided for the transfer of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society, and this was not what the National Assembly wanted to do. But if we take this as a given fact, it is interesting to talk about whether, as legislators and as well as the Government, as a bill-maker, we must respect the will of those whose money we are currently deciding by this law. In fact, the question whether an insurance company or a pension company is actually a question that gets an answer if we ask people who invest or invest – after all, because that is what we are here, Members of the National Assembly who invest money in these pension funds. In fact, the unions representing public servants who invest money in these funds, as well as other trade unions, were asked what they wanted, and they said very clearly that they wanted to have an insurance company. Because they themselves have obtained sufficient information and, first of all, they want this money to remain in the management of at least the para-national institutions because they are owned by the country; the economic owner will be de facto, if we look at the curve, the state, because they consider this to be a greater security for their investment in life. This is the life investment of all those who pay their supplementary supplementary pension insurance. If the unions said they wanted to have an insurance company, because they also knew that this insurance company would increase the safety of their investment by means of additional activities, it was – at least for me – a decision that should be respected. And because of this amendment, I cannot support the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, when we talk about the composition of the supervisory board of this insurance undertaking, although I do not agree with the fact that employees in a particular company are not given the opportunity to participate in the supervisory authorities of this insurance undertaking, in this case it seems more appropriate for me to have greater power or to be given the opportunity to decide on the company, the insurance undertaking, the insurers themselves and those who enjoy the fruits of this investment than to allow the city to be kept by one of the employees in this insurance undertaking. And one thing: Can anyone ask, why doesn't the Government have fewer representatives? If insurers, or those who pay additional pension insurance, want to have some greater security and the state stands for that security, then it will have to be recognised to the State that it has the right to have at least half the votes of the supervisory board. Since those who take responsibility for such large investments as in this particular insurance undertaking will have a final amount of around EUR 3 billion, I think it is certain that the country should be allowed to make such a decision that it is 1 : 1 with the users of this money; they are getting paid in the form of a pension. I will support the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, while the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the reasons I have already listed cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic. He's not here. Mr Barovic – there is no time, unfortunately. Mr. Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the debate itself or in the explanation itself, it was somehow stated that this law should also contribute or contribute to a better financial position for our pensioners. But, as far as we can see, there is very little concern for our pensioners of the Zares Group, LDS, including DeSUS, not one member is present under such an important law, which suggests this relationship, or perhaps even that this law is not what it should be followed. I was very pleased that representatives of the other coalition parliamentary groups expressed great concerns about this law, or some even disagreement, which really shows that this law is bad, that we do not even know what this law is meant to bring and what it is to follow. It is more normal or usually that we are opposition Members who are more distrustful, who are opposed to every law that is not clear, and we are also opposed to this law, but that we are both really and DeSUS, who, in his explanation, has announced support for this law with a bitter taste. I don't know if this bitter taste is helping our pensioners who they stand for? Apparently not. Also on the side of SD. But it's quite significant, really meaningful, how much there is in this law of ignorance, so it won't be wrong to tell one parable of this law, because obviously the government doesn't know what this law brings. This is similar to what happens when a random passerby comes to a metal master who creates a heated piece of iron with a hammer and asks him, "Lord Master, what will come of it?" He says, "I don't know if it's flat, it's gonna be a shovel, but if it's pointy, it's gonna be fairies." And there's obviously so many strangers here that in the end, no one knows what's going to come out of this, what's going to happen here. This marriage is not primarily in the interest of our pensioners, whoever is trying to sell this story here is, in my opinion, not primarily sincere, but secondly, because there is no accurate data to analyze what it can bring. More than once, it has been mentioned today why exactly EUR 50 million must be given each year to the pension fund or the pension fund. Why is this amount not defined here in a different way, for example, where this amount can then be determined on the basis of the performance of this insurance undertaking. Or anything else. Then it's the second thing. Why the insurance company? This is a dilemma that opposition and coalition MPs have. For the insurance company, which is likely to come from this, will then try to deal with some new products, at least so reasoned that the new products will be the ones who are to elevate this treasury. But I am afraid that these products, which will probably be designed, which will also be marketed, will be placed at high risk, but that risk will, in the background, guarantee the money of all those who contribute to this treasury, mean risk without some such owners who realize that if it fails, we will give out of our pocket. Is this where we put everyone out of our pocket? For it is necessary to be aware that any new product that will have a higher level of risk on the market may have a higher yield, but in such a situation, in such competitive environments as,knowingly, even Slovenia, there is little possibility, but at least I do not see many, so that new products can nominate this treasury. We also had attempts on each other when she tried to market the money of everyone who was just giving this insurance extra to go to some new products. Of course, it's some kind of sandbox for some managers who will then manage to see if they can or can't manage. Then there's a big, ignorant control council for me. Otherwise, the law defines the composition: three on a proposal from the Government, two on a proposal from the insurance company itself. What is disturbing to me is why the law does not define exactly how these proposals will be designed or produced. Why is this left to be stipulated in the statute? The Statute will again set up a supervisory council, and it means that in a narrow, closed circle it will be possible to do something like this again, which is likely to happen sooner than for the benefit of such a society. In this law or in this proposal, in particular with regard to the changes that have already been made in the treatment of the labour force, there is so much ignorance, so much confusion, and so much nonsense that it is most reasonable – and I hope that this will also be voted out, especially if this is a vote by the coalition Members' conscience – that this proposal is rejected and that in this way we also contribute to the reduction of state bureaucracy, because there will also be an increasing number of employees in the mosaic of the state bureaucrat, which is already over 3,000 new employees in this mandate, instead of being fewer, and one unnecessary institution less, and that what we have will be able to do more in favour of our pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Slapnik? [[No, no, ……]] The brooker? [[No, no, ……]] Thin? [[No, no, ……]] Possession? [[No, no, ……]] An Oraz camper? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u70	Today, it has been repeatedly said that this law is in fact no longer what came into the legislative process. One important part has been removed from it, as well as in the part where the legislative text remains, the solutions that change the management of the three pension funds in such a way as to establish an insurance undertaking are inadequate. Even today, in these responses and responses by the Minister, we have not received any concrete reasons why these funds are actually transformed into an insurance company and what is the added value that is supposed to enable better and more efficient management of these funds and more efficient management. The amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups to this law also imply that, on the one hand, they would like to say how this law is written in the interest of those concerned, namely those who make payments to these funds and, on the other hand, they are not available in management. For this amendment, which has been tabled on their part, speaks of the fact that the government representatives have a strong predominance and, even with the amendment, excludes, repeals the provisions of the law governing the participation of workers in the management of companies and does not apply to this insurance undertaking. The explanation says why - because otherwise the government would have only one third of the representatives, and so it has half of them. How appropriate is the representation of those who pay into these funds if three government representatives who have nothing to do with it, two of them are from pension organisations and one of the unions representing the employees. So, only one in six is the one who then reflects the representation of those who are reshaping them. Even after this management salary, it is perfectly clear what this is about. It is interesting, however, that this is happening in the government led by the Social Democrats, which are full of the mouths of employment, the rights of workers and so on, not only in this law, but also in all other segments of the social state that they are being powdered. The bankruptcys of enterprises, including those where the state owns – it is interesting that the prime minister does not stand for a company in which the state owns the property, but falls within the hands of a dictator for 500 million to a private company with which the owner will finally own the company. But when it came to a company with PPD, one of these companies Kad, including the state share, is Vegrad, we have heard different words. There was no campaign for Slovenian workers and the Slovenian economy, and there was a campaign for the fastest bankruptcy, to get these people on the road as soon as possible. Why not?Oh, my God! When it came to Prevent, we also heard the Prime Minister helping some private owners who "screw" each other and want to get as much out of this bankruptcy as possible. And then we experience absurdity that those gentlemen who go bankrupt with businesses are building villas for a few million euros and no one asks them how that is possible. And something similar, a similar approach is reflected in this law. It appears that the Government has absolutely no interest in those in whose interest it should act and protect them, but they are only interested, and here in particular the Prime Minister, the interest of capital and those private owners who have remained halfway and have failed to fully own their businesses. This is a really strange picture of Slovenia 2010 when it comes to some savings in the public sphere, while the number of employees has increased significantly over the last two years and, of course, where it should be saved, is not being saved in any way, but the money for unnecessary spending, material costs, not to mention inefficientness, which has been the subject of this unfortunate falcon for two years. In this law, too, this inappropriate approach, which unfortunately we have not been able to change in all of these debates, is somehow reflected, and this is an efficiency approach. None of these laws, which we have considered in relation to the management and management of state property, are based on this basic proposal on efficiency and efficiency. All of you, including the one we have on the table today, will mean significantly more costs for the same effect. This management effect will not be any greater, it will only mean a substantial number of costs, in order for something to happen and operate. And that's why I'm saying that this law should be rejected. Like any other, but unfortunately some of you voted on the committee – it is quite interesting, even in the previous law that we have discussed, that insurance is supported on the committee by some logical, reasonable amendments, and then you come to the National Assembly and they vote differently. This, I must say, I don't understand. And this is increasingly happening, which also shows, not only do you fail to fulfil the commitment you made before and after the elections, but also that you are obviously dependent on individual lobbyists who, in a certain case, press on you and then change your decision, which you have once again stood for.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u72	I would go back to history and remember how the capital company of pension and disability insurance came into existence. It was created by transferring a significant share of the former social assets of this process to the Capital Society, Kad, in the course of the property transformation process, to Kad, in order to finance this property in the long term and to finance the expenses of the pension fund. That is why we cannot understand this property as a property that is in the function of the pension of the current retired generation, and I do not contest the expressed view that the current generation of pensioners have also created this property to the greatest extent, but rather as a capital base that will ensure long-term funding of the pension system for future generations of pensioners. I believe that this is a fundamental function and the purpose of this property, and I believe that the solution to the extent to which the Capital Society has to take away the pension fund every year is appropriate for this capital base not to be weakened but to remain in the long-term function of co-financing the pension fund costs and thus in a long-term function for all, including future generations of pensioners. The dilemmas we have been following in the adoption of this law for several months now remain the same. I think the chosen formula to transform into an insurance company is a good formula. Also because I think it relates to a detailed regulation, this is the Insurance Act - by the way, we have adopted changes and additions to this law right now - which I think will ensure in an effective way what this insurance company intends, and this is the long-term stable and quality management of the funds managed so far by the Capital Society. And it seems to me that in a good way we are demarcating the property that has been the subject of the property ownership process of the former social property and remains within Kad and, on the other hand, the funds as specialized in managing the funds that employees pay each month to enrich themselves with what they can promise at the time of their retirement. This distinction seems very important to me, and I actually understand it as logical to get better governance, both in the first and second packages. Some talked about new products. I see nothing wrong with the new products that such an insurance company would offer on the market. In fact, rather than enriching the offer in order to strengthen this good governance in the role of insurers. And I don't understand why we are so afraid of some new business ventures of such entities, if, of course, that fundamental assumption is respected, and this is the quality management of what is now Kad already managing and will be managed by a 100%-owned pension insurance company tomorrow. At the same time, I think that the country will have all the mechanisms to monitor the quality of this management through the supervisory board of such pension insurance companies in the future. And this supervisory board will determine whether it will give a green light to the pension insurance administration to conquer, say, a new market for insurance services. It also seems very important to me that, in advance, past the public investment management strategy, we define this pension insurance as a strategic investment until this pension insurance company manages the closed mutual pension fund of public servants. I think that this is a guarantee to these public servants to ensure the nobility of their paid resources in the way they expect. And that the country here will somehow have all the security guards to ensure that. Finally, an amendment. What exactly do we want to achieve with the coalition amendment to Article 2? At first glance, as may be quite populism words, we exclude employees from management. But let's not forget who these employees are. This is a few people who are working on the Capital Society today and will be working on a pension insurance company tomorrow, and they should now, according to the arguments I hear from the opposition, as well as some coalition members, manage this property in the supervisory board of this pension insurance company – actually the Kod supervisory council. And I don't see the point here. I think that we have come up with a better solution with the proposed amendment, and this is that two members of the Supervisory Board propose an alliance or organisation of state-level pensioners and one member on the proposal of a trade union, a confederation representative of the country. So here we're going to have a set of three:three. Three members on a proposal from the Government and three members from those who are first interested in the good management of this capital company as a long-term nobility of funds transferred by the State to Kad during the property transformation process. Let us not forget what an important part of the process that we have started with this law, and this is the distinction between what is a strategic investment for this country and what Kad will manage as a portfolio investment, thereby ensuring flexibility in order to make this asset noble in the long term. On the other hand, we exclude what will be defined as strategic, for which this National Assembly will assess that it must remain in our country's long-term ownership. Another local story. We may have forgotten a little, but the Moroccan MPs, mag. After spending, Bogdan Čepič and I, already months ago, addressed the Government and the Finance Minister with the initiative to consider our commitments after institutional decentralisation in our country when establishing a new pension insurance company. In particular, we have proposed that both new institutions be established in Maribor. I think this is particularly meaningful for the pension insurance company, which is personally in the perspective, after we have clarified the question of what the fate of state ownership will be in the two largest Slovenian banks, in order to be an extremely good complement in the process of some new stipending of Slovenian financial and banking institutions, which will have to come to, in order to ensure that the state at strategic level clears what it actually wants with assets in different banking and financial institutions. I will support the law and the coalition amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, do you want a word on the list? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 9. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u74	Previously, in the position of the Group of Members, I explained why we believe that the transformation into an insurance company is inappropriate, and I also said that the risk of managing this is significantly greater than it would have been in the event of a transformation into a pension society, and that this risk will be borne by all those who have paid into these funds in the past and will also be paid into the future. In addition to this one assurance, which has been given both over the table, that the profitability of 5% that anyone can give at any time, any other empirically justified invoices, how and how this insurance company will operate, has not been. Nor has it been explained what additional products it will deal with, but it exposes to an unreasonable risk three pension funds, 150 000 employees paying them, and a high risk of what will happen to them. Given how bad the current government is, I fear that the security of these roles is at stake in the future. And I've talked about this before; I've talked about that if it's an insurance company, then they have to apply, probably, to it the same rules of the game as for all the other insurance companies. At the previous point, we had the Insurance Act, and see whether the same rules of the game apply to this insurance undertaking or not, as regards management entitlements. No one has explained this to date, despite the fact that this law has, I think, been in the legislative procedure for more than half a year and even though some members of the ruling coalition have also been exposed to arguments that have spoken against such a method of transformation. Moreover, I think that even Mr Chapič at some point was the one who tabled similar amendments, as we are now trying to invest in the SDS, but unfortunately it is too late to prevent this inappropriate transformation into an insurance company. And then when it was decided on the committee, it wasn't because he had other responsibilities. So this procedure also tells me that this path the government is taking is not appropriate. And we suggest we stop her and bring her to the National Assembly with a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you. Someone else on Article 2. Yeah, I'm opening the application. It's been a long time. Mr. Barovich, you've already spent [[...]] Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Minister, fellow Members, Members of Parliament! My proposal is like most members of the opposition that this law has actually been brought into the National Assembly by force and is by no means appropriate for the adoption of the law on the conversion of Kad and the Court into an insurance society. I don't know where you found it, and you took it that 152 million will actually be earmarked for the pension fund and that 50 million on the annual base will have to be returned. I think that these numbers are purely fictional and that these numbers are by no means economically oriented, that in fact the money that is being created will actually be bloated, but the money is as much as it will be, but it will go somewhere else as it always does most of the money in the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia, there has been a very large mode of setting up some agencies recently, since we have established a species in the last period. But that's actually unwise, because you can see for yourself that we have a lot of overstate bureaucracy, and as far as we have it, it's too much. For what they do, they get very well paid, and for what they do not, they also hope to strike, which is insatiable for the state treasury, which is not encouraging for our pensioners who can continue to gain or actually have a secure life to the end, as long as they have left. That is why I believe that this law has been forced into the National Assembly and I cannot support it and I do not mean it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, I think that, because I know that it is common for us to talk about G when it comes to discussing A, but I would like to point out that when we talk about the obligation of Kada to transfer EUR 50 million per year to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we are not talking about the insurance company we are establishing by this law, but we are talking about Kad. Article 2 and the two amendments to Article 2 refer to the insurance undertaking, the establishment or modification of the establishment of a pension company, that is to say, have nothing to do with Kad's obligations to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. And so is the other amendment that speaks of the supervisory world of this insurance company. So, when it was time to talk about it, people didn't answer, now that we're talking about the amendments to Article 2, and now all of a sudden we're pulling out again now, or we don't know what the law is talking about, but say, even as we've heard before, that no one understands why this law ever came, or that it's forced, and what I know, what else. [[...]] Both amendments have a very specific objective. The first amendment suggests that we do not set up an insurance company and thus restrict the activity of a pension company, so the possibility is that in other ways, the rich investment that is made by the insurers or investors, the workers who pay additional pension insurance – the only name to be used for supplementary pension insurance – is, in its own way, significant – that we simply prevent any other possible additional way of enriching this capital that the insurers invest in the insurance company. Second amendment, we've heard this before, and that's why I don't think there's any point in repeating it, but it's talking about the composition of the supervisory board. When we define ourselves to these two amendments, I think it is necessary to say why we believe that these two amendments are or are not right, why support one and not the other, because either way, if we support one, then of course we cannot support the other. I will vote against the first amendment. And for the second amendment, I'm going to press the "yes" button.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you. Anyone else? No, then I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 16 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, then I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. With this, I interrupt this point of Minister, would you like? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u80	Respectable. Since there have been a lot of changes, the Government has also prepared completely nomotechnic harmonisation amendments. There's four of them. I propose that these also be included in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u81	I think that the issue of the harmonisation amendment will only be the evening when we see whether any of these amendments will be adopted and similar. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it is at: Secondly, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, Dr Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u82	Dear Members and Members! Dear President of the National Assembly! Allow me to give you a brief introduction to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. The proposal for a new bill on banking is to transpose Directive 2009/111 of the European Council and Parliament, also referred to as CRD 2, which aims to strengthen the stability of the financial system, reduce the exposure of banks to risks and improve supervision of banks operating in more than one European Union country. Thus, control of groups operating across borders. The main solutions to the amendment of the law regarding that directive can be summarized into the following three points, which I briefly present to you. Firstly, the amendment will improve the quality of bank capital through the definition of the characteristics to be fulfilled by hybrid and other instruments for inclusion in the core capital of banks. These will have to be authorised by the Central Bank, in this case the Bank of Slovenia, to take account of such instruments in the calculation of capital, while at the same time the Supervisor will be able to take action and make any additional requirements. Secondly, the amendment will also improve the management of the risk of concentration and reduction of systemic risk, i.e. the risk of the effect of snowball or "spill over effect", which works when individual financial institutions break down on the whole economy of a given country, as well as wider. The law introduces an extended definition of a group of connected persons to whom banks identify their exposure, while at the same time limiting the exposure of banks to other credit institutions and investment firms with a limit of 25% of the capital or absolute amounts of EUR 100 million. In this case, it will be considered to be a qualified share that will require a specific authorisation from the regulator, in this case the central bank or the Bank of Slovenia. Third time. The implementation of CRD 2 will also ensure more effective implementation of cross-border supervision of banks operating in several countries, both in regular and in emergencies. A consolidation supervisory authority will be defined in more detail, saying that if a bank operates in several countries, the central bank is the one that takes care of the consolidation and the tasks of that authority. Clear requirements will be laid down for the participation of the Bank of Slovenia in the activities of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors. Cooperation between supervisory authorities in the case of an important branch and joint decision on the assessment of the relevant internal capital and the establishment of colleges of supervisory authorities will also be identified. These colleges are in place of supervision. This is an extremely important issue for the functioning of the European financial and monetary market. The issue of liability, fiscal liability for possible regulatory errors, and which regulator carries out this control, is highlighted. If a particular national economy loses the majority of ownership of the financial system, control of this system is established outside this economy and fiscal control, at least for the time being, remains within this economy, which we have seen painfully during the financial crisis in the Baltic countries. The bill also transposes part of Directive 94/19 and Directive 2009/14 on deposit guarantee schemes into the Slovenian legal order in relation to the level of coverage and payment deadlines. The main change relates to a permanent increase in the amount of the guaranteed deposit of EUR 50 000, it is said that, following the abolition of the full guarantee of the State for nutritional deposits, this will now be provided up to EUR 100 000, no more than 50, and a reduction in the deadline for payment of guaranteed deposits from the current 3 months to the 20th working day at the latest from the date on which the applications are found to be non-paymentable. Thus, the security of savers is also increasing in the post-crisis period. Furthermore, the proposal for a law in the field of deposit guarantees provides the following five solutions. Firstly, it defines the definition of an irrevocable application. Secondly, the deadline for the decision of the Bank of Slovenia to become insolvent is being reduced to 3 working days at the latest. Thirdly, the amendment provides the basis for the effective functioning of the deposit guarantee system through the requirement to establish an information system. Fourthly, the legal provisions relating to the taking-over of the Bank of Slovenia's obligation to pay the guaranteed deposits are being coordinated. Fifthly, the draft law amending Article 313(2) on banking provides that if banks established in the Republic of Slovenia cannot provide funds in time to pay the guaranteed deposit up to the amount of the third paragraph, it is said that up to EUR 100,000 will be guaranteed by the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the member of the Committee, Mrs Renati Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! At its 19th meeting, on 8 September 2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law before it on compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and on the legislative and technical aspects. The Service made comments on a number of provisions of the draft law. Most of the comments are taken into account in a number of amendments tabled on the basis of that opinion by the coalition groups within the time limit. The meeting was attended by the Minister responsible for Finance and representatives or representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, as the representative of the bill's proposer, gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and presentation of the solutions transposing Directive 2009/111 EC and Directive 2009/14 EC and, at the same time, partially adapt the provisions of the guarantee for applications in accordance with Directive 94/19 EC. In conclusion, the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, which address most of the shortcomings highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service in their opinion, expressed support on behalf of the Government. In the context of the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of that service stressed that, in the amendment, the comments submitted by the coalition take into account only partially, in terms of terminology, otherwise duly amended transitional provisions of Article 82. As regards the practical consequences, a certain consideration remains. In the debate where the question was raised, to what extent the amendment concerned relates to the need for the recapitalisation of Slovenian banks, in particular banks owned by the majority, the Government explained, inter alia, that the proposal under consideration for the recapitalisation of NLB, which is current this year, would not have an impact, nor would it certainly be necessary to strengthen the capital adequacy of NLB in the coming periods due to the changes introduced by the amendment, as well as those introduced in the European area. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee defined all amendments to the amendments tabled and adopted, in so doing, all amendments by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, Zares, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, or to Articles 1, 6, 8, 11, 13, 17, 19, 30, 33, 46, 58, 67, 68, 81, 82 and 90 of the legislative proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. The amendment of the Banking Act has been on the table for the fourth time in this mandate. This act is also about changes in the direction of implementation of European directives aimed at strengthening the stability of the financial system, reducing bank exposure to risks and improving supervision of banks operating in more than one Member State of the European Union. The second directive, which is transposed into our legal order by this proposal, is part of the Directive on the system of guaranteed applications for the level of coverage and payment deadlines. It is essential to increase the amount of the guaranteed application from EUR 50 000 to EUR 100 000 and to reduce the deadlines for the payment of guaranteed deposits from the current three months to the 20th working day at the latest from the date on which the applications are found to be insolvent. As soon as this law was last amended, when an increase in the level of guaranteed deposits was adopted from 20,000 to the current 50,000 euros, the European Directive already envisaged a further increase of the guarantee to 100,000 euros, but provided for a positive decision by the European Commission on the appropriateness of such an increase. At that time, the government committed itself to accession to the amendment even in this direction when the decision of the European Commission is known. In this regard, the proposaler of this novel is also commended. Members of the DeSUS view the proposed solutions as appropriate, and we will also support them. Despite the principle of support for this proposal, however, I should like to express my concerns or opposition to the provision relating to the total exclusion of the guarantee of the applications of pension funds. However, this amendment does not change this regime, but the article that regulates this amendment is also subject to amendment. This is a matter of repeated concern on our part about the question of the exclusion of both pension mutual funds, pension companies, funds, compulsory pension insurance as defined by STIZ, and the First Pension Fund under the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. This is not what the EU Directive requires of us. The latter allows only a discretionary right to individual countries to submit investors or applications that are to be exempted from the Deposit Guarantee Scheme. It also follows from the comparative arrangements of other legal systems that pension funds in Denmark, Finland and Sweden are not excluded from the guarantee. Also, Britain, which provides for exclusion, but only for certain pension funds. In order to guarantee these applications, the fact that Member States' anti-crisis measures in the autumn of 2008 have provided a guarantee for all accounts or deposits is also clear, our country with the previous novelty has made a drastic impact on this particular area. Not only pensioners are afraid to monitor developments in the financial crisis, but they are concerned about their financial security during retirement. Of course, an individual can opt for additional pension insurance, and the very guarantee is often the decisive factor that is crucial for trusting the management of the financial resources that an individual is committed to, we can say, surviving after retirement. Despite this concern, which is not exactly the main point of this time's amendment to the Banking Act, we will support DeSUS's proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act is an extensive material, a comprehensive content and all honour to what he has been able to read. However, we have been able to see from this proposal that the purpose of this law is to strengthen the stability of the financial system, reduce banks' exposure to risks and improve supervision of banks. And that this law brings the following solutions: improve the quality of bank capital and improve concentration risk management. This law also brings higher guaranteed deposits of between €50 and €100,000 and shorter deadlines for the payment of guaranteed deposits. Very briefly and very clearly. But if we look at it, I mentioned the first improvement in the quality of bank capital between the solutions. At the same time, it must be said that this purpose, or exclusion objective, is being achieved in the next two, three years of so-called hybrid instruments from the current calculation of capital adequacy. The logical question is what does that mean? In view of the information we received from, I believe that, at one meeting at the home work body of representatives of the Ljubljana Bank, it was said that around 700 million hybrid instruments would change over the next three years. This means that they must be replaced. This means that we are replacing EUR 700 million, which is probably what this country, government and all of us, can do with recapitalisation. Otherwise, the existence of a bank will be questionable, which may be true, as we have heard on the labour market, that this amendment of the law does not bring about any changes and requirements for recapitalisation this year, but will certainly be necessary in the amount mentioned in order to achieve a certain objective of the recapitalisation. And from here on out, this is important information, we can only ask ourselves whether we have to ask ourselves in what way. As the fact is that by adopting this bill we will in fact accept the demand or need for recapitalisation, so it is good to start asking ourselves today in what way; whether this recapitalisation with the money of this country and the bank will only remain in state ownership or our property, Slovenian ownership, and the other solution is clear as well as hand – the sale of the bank. The buyer of the bank, whoever it is, has only one goal, to make as much profits for himself as possible, and this law must also be considered as what then. That is why, in the Slovenian National Party's Group, the consequences that we see at the time of the adoption of this law, although I say again, obviously these changes are necessary because of the directives, but they will have such consequences that we need to think carefully. So, our colleagues will decide on their own whether or not to adopt the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. But I stress once again, not for anything else, but for the consequences that can arise with the solutions and goals of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice to meet you, Madam Secretary. True, as has been said many times before, we have a large, demanding law ahead of us, based on compliance with European Union legislation. And since we have decided to be a member of this elite club, then we have no serious alternatives or other solutions in this area. In particular, because those who work in practice in the European Union appear to be good. It must be one of the more stable parts of the global and European economy that is now emerging from the crisis. It seems important to draw attention to the following key solutions. We also set clear criteria for hybrid capital instruments on the basis of which they are suitable for inclusion in the core capital of banks. Then it is certainly a law to strengthen the necessary Community crisis management, where it is essential that competent authorities effectively coordinate their actions with other competent authorities and, where appropriate, with central banks, inter alia, with a simple objective of reducing systemic risk. One of the important chapters is also the respect for financial stability. In this part, the Bank of Slovenia undertakes to take into account the possible impact of the financial stability of the Member States in the performance of its tasks and powers in the field of banking supervision. In addition, there are stricter limits, the maximum permissible exposure of banks to other institutions. This reduces the level of risk for both Slovenia and the European Union as a whole. The bill also provides for the provision of an appropriate level of guarantee for net deposits, which has been heard on several occasions, with an increase of EUR 50 000 to EUR 100,000, which certainly helps to increase the reputation and confidence of all citizens and citizens in this system. The harmonisation of the deposit guarantee system is then important. We would like this to be settled in the European Union's area in a uniform manner. An important principle is also the principle of financial security, which is realized by shortening the payment deadlines from the current 3 months to the 20th working day at the latest from the date on which applications were found and confirmed as non-payments. The main solutions to the bill's proposal regarding the revision of the rules on bank capital requirements and exposures and cross-border supervision are as follows. It improves the quality of bank capital by identifying the characteristics to be met by hybrid and other instruments to be included in the core capital of banks, requires Banka Slovenije to obtain permission to take hybrid and other financial instruments into account in the capital calculation and, importantly, supervisory measures and requirements for banks in relation to hybrid and other capital instruments. Better risk management, concentration and reduction of systemic risk are also important solutions. This extends the definition of a group of connected persons to whom banks determine their exposure by stricter limiting the exposure of banks to other credit institutions and investment firms with a capital limit of 25 % or an alternative absolute amount of EUR 100 million. It is also important to implement more effectively the cross-border supervision of banks operating in several countries, both in regular and emergency situations, by defining the consolidating supervision of the Authority and its tasks and by requiring the participation of the Bank of Slovenia in individual activities of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors. It is also important to require cooperation between supervisory authorities in the case of an important branch and in a joint decision on the assessment of the relevant internal capital and the establishment of colleges of supervisory authorities. In addition, the draft law also provides a legal basis for reporting external executions, court and tax, to customers who are natural persons in the system, which further ensures greater security of the system for all users. And such a good law will receive the support of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! The substance of the proposed amendment to the Banking Act is to transpose Directive 2009/111/EC into the Slovenian legal order. The revision of the Directive aims to strengthen the stability of the financial system, reduce bank exposure to risks and improve supervision of banks operating in more than one European Union country. Under this Directive, the quality of bank capital will be improved through the definition of the characteristics to be met by hybrids and other instruments to be included in the core capital of banks, the requirement to obtain the permission of the Bank of Slovenia to take account of hybrids and other instruments in the calculation of capital and the supervisory measures and requirements for banks in relation to hybrids and other capital instruments. Of course, in the law on the reduction of hybrid instruments in basic capital, on the basis of the preceding provisions, a bank which is not in line with the limits for hybrid instruments referred to in Article 133, paragraph 4, of the first paragraph of the law must establish and implement appropriate and effective strategies and processes to comply with the prescribed limits by the end of December 2020 at the latest. The draft law also fully transposes the Directive on raising the amount of the guaranteed application from EUR 50 000 to EUR 100 000 and reducing the deadline for the payment of guaranteed deposits from the current 3 months to the 20th working day at the latest from the date on which the applications are found to be non-paymentable, which is extremely important for all savers. May I remind you, however, that an unlimited limit is now in place as one of the anti-crisis measures that will expire at the end of this year. The law also allows better control of the risk of concentration and reduction of systemic risk through an extended definition from a group of connected persons to whom banks identify their exposure, a stricter limitation of exposure of banks to other credit institutions and investment firms with a capital limit of 25 % or an alternative absolute amount of EUR 100 million. The law will also allow for more effective cross-border supervision of banks operating in several countries in regular and emergency situations by defining the consolidating supervisory authority and its tasks. Request for the participation of the Bank of Slovenia in the activities of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors, requests for cooperation between supervisory authorities in the event of an important branch and joint decision on the price of the relevant internal capital and the establishment of colleges of supervisory authorities. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u94	All in attendance, all in attendance! This is a type of technical solution or change, which is probably why I do not need to repeat these solutions, which have already been mentioned many times, to repeat them, which are certainly very important in the areas of improving the quality of bank capital, in the area of better managing the risk of concentration and reducing systemic risk and in the area of more effective cross-border supervision of banks operating in several countries. From the point of view of the safety of applications and savers, it is particularly important to add a clearer definition of the outstanding application and a modified definition of the guaranteed application with a view to ensuring the conditions for payment of guaranteed deposits within reduced time limits. Then, with regard to the permanent increase in the amount of the guaranteed role, which we have already discussed several times in previous amendments, where we have proposed that in previous novelties this amount should change from €50,000 to €100,000, precisely because of the coming directive, which has now been somehow justified and will apply after the entry into force of the law and when the unlimited guarantee in force will be lifted by the end of this year, which was introduced in October 2008 at the beginning of the financial crisis. It is also important to reduce the deadline for the payment of guaranteed deposits from the current three months to 20 working days and to provide a basis for a more efficient functioning of the deposit guarantee system. These are certainly the solutions and many others that you have already mentioned that I am not repeating them again after the ministers and all others, which are improving this banking law in technical terms, so that we will support these changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. However, we would expect that the Ministry, in view of some of the current issues and current cases that have been taking place for some time in the Republic of Slovenia, would also be engaged in a substantive amendment to this law, and from this point of view I appeal that the Banking Act also be refined and amended on the basis of the substantive salary, in order to ensure the future stability of our banking and financial system and to ensure the security of the role of savers, businesses and everyone else in the long term. In short, this novel, which is of a technical nature, will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. The proposed law introduces three substantive sets of amendments, two of which relate to the transposition of European directives into the Slovenian legal order and the third package provides a legal basis for external enforcement. The first set of legislative changes concerns the transposition of Directive 2009/111, which revises the European Union rules on capital requirements for banks with a view to ensuring the stability of the banking system. The proposed amendments to the rules on the conditions for the inclusion of hybrid and other instruments in the core capital of banks ensure an improvement in the quality of bank capital. Risk management, concentration and reduction of systemic risk are further improved by an extended definition of connected persons and by more effective cross-border control. The second component relates to amendments or transpositions of Directive 94/19 and Directive 2009/14 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the system of guaranteed deposits, whereby the level of guaranteed deposits guaranteed by banks established in the Republic of Slovenia raises from EUR 50 000 to EUR 100 000, while reducing the deadline for the payment of guaranteed deposits from the previous three months to 20 days and the reduction in the time limit for the decision of the Bank of Slovenia to become insolvent, up to a maximum of 3 days. The proposed amendments to the law also ensure a more efficient functioning of the deposit guarantee system in banks and the Bank of Slovenia impose a regular review of the operation of the deposit guarantee system. The third substance set provides a legal basis for reporting to the system of judicial and tax enforcement, since so far banks have not had the necessary legal basis for such reporting, according to the findings of the information officer. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposed legislative changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The bill contains three substantive sets of amendments. The two sets are linked to the transposition of European directives into national legislation and the third set of amendments covers provisions providing a legal basis for reporting on the external enforcement of natural persons. As regards the transposition of directives into the national legal order, the main solution to the first set of directives is to strengthen the stability of the financial system, thus reducing bank exposure to risks and improving supervision of banks. The second directive, which brings the law to Slovenia's legal order by means of this proposal, is part of the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes, as regards the degree, coverage and payment deadlines. The amount of the guaranteed deposit for which coverage is provided shall be increased from EUR 50 to EUR 100 000 and the deadlines for the payment of guaranteed deposits shall be reduced from the current three months to the 20th working day at the latest from the date on which the applications are found to be insolvent. On this occasion, let me remind you of the debate on the Committee on Finance when we discussed the point of sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. When the President of the Management Board of Nova Ljubljanska Banka spoke about the figures for the recapitalisation, he said, quote, "the number 200, 250 million is actually a minimum figure, which is a patch rather than a long-term solution. Let me tell you, over the next three years, we're going to fall between 600 and 700 million hybrid instruments. In short, if these instruments were to be replaced, of course we would need so much capital. So the number's bigger. And if we want to stabilize the bank in the long term, then of course it will need more capital or it will need further recapitalisation," the end of the quote. What am I trying to say? The adoption of this law is likely to have serious consequences for the operation of our largest bank, and in particular it will trigger the need to recapitalise our largest bank, the New Ljubljana Bank. Of course, this is what we all need to know when we adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE Tax PROCEDURE LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Jožet Tank. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! There is probably no doubt that the economy needs further removals of administrative barriers and further simplifications, as well as appreciation. The continuation of these reforms is noted by interested associations, in particular those that bring together the smallest and most exposed entities, such as small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. Many of these proposals are also included in brochures with their requirements or proposals. One such minor measure, which would constitute a significant simplification, is the reduction in the number of positions by which they pay their monthly obligations. In particular, there are disruptive payments of those positions where the amount is lower than the bank commission. And in case he has, say, a member of staff of one employee, I think he's paying nine bills and at which four places he's credited the amount less than the commission. I wonder if that makes sense. I don't think so. And we also wonder why this is necessary, and we wonder if there are really other options. There are other options! One, it is said that we are paying these contributions with one bill, we are proposing now for the third or fourth time in the legislative process. However, despite the government's promises, despite its position that something is happening in this area, nothing has happened in the first half of this mandate. S.p.'s still paying the bills, sinking in rows in front of the bank window and paying unnecessary fees. At least EUR 10 million per year only s.p.s. The government does nothing, does not propose anything, but every time we file a law, it writes that it is not suitable for further consideration. In doing so, I would like to point out that on 26 May 2008, the Minister of Finance in the Janševa Government, Dr Bayuk, has set up a special working group which should have already prepared professional bases for simplifying the system of charging and payment of taxes, contributions, other compulsory duties and public finances. Thus, by last year this group should have prepared the basis, and three months from now, this system should be put in place as of 2011. However, there is no basis for this because there is no systemic approach, as the Government does not propose anything, and it is probably illustrated that this system will be introduced in 2011. In fact, this raises the question of what this group has proposed. Where are we with this simplification program? Whether the Government has done anything in the area of payment of bills during this period, it is said that it would reduce at least the frequency of payment in those positions where the amount is lower than the commission. Nothing has happened, there has been no progress in this area. And apparently, it's not exactly the speed of this coalition. In doing so, I would like to point out that this simplification proposed by this law for 2010 is the first requirement of Slovenian craftsmanship. In this booklet it is written with order number 1. That's also the number one problem. Therefore, because the Government does not propose anything, there is no rational reason why the Government does not support this law. If she can't do it herself, if she can't do it in full and in time, it would make sense to support ours. So those proposed in this law and, if necessary, any further improvements or improvements. The fumigation of the government and the coalition is of no benefit to anyone, at least to the 10,000, who must make an unnecessary contribution each month to the rehabilitation of the banking system. All systems, the total economy is collected annually as a result of these contributions to an excessive number of deposits of around EUR 20 million. I think that this measure is necessary, and it would be wise for the government coalition to consider also supporting the continuation of the law review process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, to introduce the government opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u102	Mr President, Members of Parliament! In short, the Government's opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. The aim of the bill is positive and attractive. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees that, in particular with regard to the removal of administrative barriers and the reduction of costs on the part of taxpayers, it is necessary to ensure that compulsory duties are paid as easily as possible. However, such complex content cannot be adequately or substantively defined as proposed, as the proposal does not provide and consequently does not provide solutions to some key issues that arise in relation to the proposed method of payment of obligations. These are: how to regulate the different statutory deadlines for the payment of duties in relation to the single remit, how to simplify the different ways of recovery and recovery of individual public benefits and how to provide the information necessary for the exercise of control over the timeliness and regularity of payment of duties. In order to simplify the payment of public duties, it is not only necessary to change the legal basis, in fact, we are convinced that there is no need to change the legal basis; other organisational measures and measures in the area of the preparation of the appropriate infrastructure are essential to facilitate the collection of duties. A working group appointed by the previous Minister in May 2008 has already been mentioned and is in operation. As stated, however, it notes that there is no need to change the legal basis, and there will be a need to amend the rules on payment accounts, which is the responsibility of the competent minister. It has drawn up indicative baselines for the implementation of a model to simplify the payment of public levies by reducing the number of sub-accounts for the payment of compulsory duties to individual public cashiers. Therefore, one payment account should be newly valid for the state budget, one payment account for each municipality, i.e., a total of 210 payment accounts, one payment account for the Health Insurance Institute and one for the Pension Insurance Office. In addition, the separation of cash and information flows should be regulated and the necessary coordination and preparation between the different institutions involved in the settlement or determination of the regularity and timeliness of the settlement of individual public obligations should therefore be carried out in this context and appropriate further sub-accounts should be allocated. However, the establishment of the central tax accounting of the Tax Administration is a condition for the realisation of this new model, which I have presented in very grave form. This is related to the reform of the information system, and we know that this renovation has been delayed due to the complications of the procurement and from here also the delay in the design of the model that I have just presented. As the working group has said, it has prepared a simplification proposal, which will, as it is said, require amending the rules on payment accounts. The new payment model will be implemented within the deadline set by the programme to remove administrative barriers to reducing administrative burdens by 25% by 2012, that is, in the course of 2011. In view of all the above, I can conclude that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for a law and proposes to the National Assembly that it adopts a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! We have heard that the Council of the European Union has already, I think, three or four years ago, adopted a decision to reduce administrative burdens. In Slovenia too, the government has been involved in this for some time. I think that such a goal is necessary and is well achieved. In fact, the content mentioned by the proposer, which is illogical, but not only does this government know about them, we know about them 10 or 15 years ago even individuals as consumers, who sometimes experience precisely such nonsense that the amount on the bills for the payment of such or other charges is less than the bank commission we pay. Not only does this fly to this government now, but the excuses of what is necessary and would be necessary for such things to be settled, to speak this moment is of course inappropriate, because this has been happening for a number of years and at that time anything could have happened or moved. I can't imagine, of course, if I were an independent entrepreneur in an economic crisis and I had to deal with so many and so many different sub-accounts for one activity, and the sub-accounts for the worker, and who knows what else, and then you'd have half of your profits for the commission banks, for the bills, and finally, the tax hacks and hunts and punishes them for being wrong about all this wealth. Whoever's working is wrong. In fact, it is time for something to change in this area. I do, and I hope that one day one of the governments will do something about it. I also understand that such content cannot be resolved, as presented by the Ministry's representative, in fact cannot happen overnight. But at least once they can start working. Once. Because when you start doing something, you're probably going to get to a goal and the end. We will support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party, but, above all, only to demonstrate our will, our desire, our desire to do something in this area, and the donkeys with this first step. Although we all know this moment that this bill will not be adopted, as well as I am here now. However, we will support this proposal, by showing the desire to actually do something in this area and finally find one solution, not only for small businesses, not only for craftsmen, economists, but we are talking in the field of tax policy in the country of Slovenia in general, in order to relieve administrative work, in the interests of citizens and citizens due to the lower financial burden of paying the bills. Of course, on the one hand, even a little bit into worse banks, because thousands and thousands of bills are going to live as well as they've lived before. Unless they want to recapitalize banks with this money, which I don't believe in.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Once again, a good-bye to everyone! This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act concerns a third attempt, which is exactly the same as that of June and November of last year, which was rejected as inappropriate for further consideration. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree that the business environment in Slovenia is certainly too administrative, too bureaucratic, and that fundamental systemic changes are needed in this area. While the government states that the simplification of the payment of taxes and contributions has already been established in the programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative burdens by 25% there by 2012. The programme also sets out to examine the possibility of simplifying the system, thereby reducing the frequency of amounts paid, which are lower than, for example, certain amounts with annual or semi-annual one-year remittances, and to reduce bank fees. The period of introduction of the system is expected to be around 2011. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we estimate that the way to prepare a comprehensive system is correct, as it only allows the system to function professionally and qualitatively, but in the current economic situation we would certainly want and expect more ambitions, especially when preparing implementing documents. For a successful business environment, it is still essential that entrepreneurs create, operate as easily as possible in a simple system that does not create unnecessary administrative burdens that do not bring added value, but take time and money for sure. We also want them to focus on their basic entrepreneurial activities, not on paperwork. As has already been said, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we agree with the general assessment that the topic under consideration is broad, complex, requires detailed treatment, which is mainly addressed in a package and comprehensively, and this proposed law, with only five articles, cannot be provided and cannot be resolved. This is certainly also demonstrated through the inadequateness of the bill's proposal that it does not, in certain respects, provide quality durable solutions related to the different statutory deadlines for the payment of duties, the solutions related to the single transfer, the different ways of recovery and so on. At the same time, we reiterate the need to devote as much effort and effort as possible to concrete, better, broad systemic solutions. Like entrepreneurship, the state needs to learn to react quickly and to solve them and that the country is particularly flexible, fast and efficient in its solutions. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we stress that we certainly fully agree with the objectives of the law referred to by the motioners, but at the same time, we understand the proposal by the opposition as one more, perhaps even the last warning that the issue is not dealt with quickly enough, which we certainly and fully agree with. However, as Members, who need to take care of quality and professionally justified solutions, we are aware of the responsibility that a solution that is not sufficiently thought out and refined cannot and cannot be supported, because something that we solve tomorrow is then in two days' time and on the way. We will therefore vote in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that the law is not suitable for further consideration, but at the same time we expect the Ministry of Finance and Government to get a suitable solution as soon as possible, because if such attempts continue and there will be no action, then we will have to think about supporting short-term solutions and then deal with the problems they bring and cause incomplete solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, with first-signed Jozet Tank, proposes amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, which it has already proposed in June and November 2009, but we have always rejected in the National Assembly. The purpose of the proposed law is to enforce the right to a single transfer of all tax liabilities to a common account and to share them according to the relevant key, thereby significantly reducing the administrative burden on Slovenian companies. In the coalition we welcome the initiative to reduce administrative barriers for Slovenian companies. Unfortunately, the previous government did not implement this measure in 2008 in the implementation of the programmes of measures to address administrative barriers, although envisaged, probably because it is not such a simple measure despite good intentions. Nevertheless, the coalition and the Government are aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other obligations, which is why this measure is defined as one of the measures to reduce administrative barriers until 2012. On 26 May, the Government appointed a special working group to simplify the system of charging and payment of taxes, contributions, other compulsory duties and public financial revenues. Also in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative burdens by 25% is a key step in simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties. The programme shall examine the possibility of simplifying the system by reducing the frequency of payment of sums lower than, for example, certain amounts with a one-year or half-year transfer and a lower bank commission. The deadline for the preparation of professional bases is 2010 and the deadline for the introduction of the system is 2011. However, the coalition cannot support the proposed law because the methods of payment of compulsory duties are regulated by different laws and it is therefore necessary to examine the possibility of a single payment in the context of these laws, namely the Tax Law, the Tax Procedure Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Health Insurance and Health Act, the Social Security Contributions Act and probably some other legislation. Of course, it is necessary to remind the proposer that the legislation already in force now allows the taxpayer to pay several duties, controlled by one supervisor and paid on the same day with one task. In this case, the supervisor and the taxable person shall exchange the specification and the calculation of the amount of the payment. The code of this account must be correctly entered in the reference on the payment order. Such payments shall be paid by taxable persons to the supervisor’s preliminary sub-account, from which the supervisor shall then allocate the duties to the corresponding payment sub-accounts. In these cases, only one commission shall be paid. In view of all these tests, that the proposed solution should be regulated systematically in several laws, the Social Democrats Group will vote in favour of the proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as the solutions offered do not provide systemic solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act, which has been tabled in the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, in the SDS, as it represents a concrete contribution to the elimination of administrative obstacles and the decommissioning of the economy, especially of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, as well as of small and medium-sized enterprises. In Slovenia, activities related to the removal of administrative barriers started before 2000 and continued until 2007 when the government adopted the objective of reducing administrative burdens by 25% in the field of labour law in 2000. With this government coming forward, the activities in the area of removing administrative barriers have somehow stalled, and we also want to encourage the Government to continue its comprehensive and systematic resolution of the problem of removing administrative obstacles and decommissioning of both the economy and natural persons, or to continue the successful work of the former government in this area. The proposed law is therefore intended to enable taxpayers to indicate their tax obligations to the common account, which is then shared by the relevant key. This would save time and money, which would all have positive effects on liquidity improvement and the economic situation in general, especially for micro and small enterprises. Just for instance, let me say that contributions to an independent entrepreneur are paid to three and legal persons to 10 accounts. This means that each taxpayer must buy and fulfil 10 payment orders in order to fulfil its obligations, and additional sub-accounts are also for interest on a particular type of tax liability. For each transfer, a bank commission must also be paid, which in many cases means more than the tax liability. So, we have yet another attempt to reduce the bureaucratic obstacles that Slovenian economic operators, independent entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises have, and thus create a more pleasant business environment. Moreover, there is no need to provide additional resources in the budget for the implementation of the law. For all of this, we are convinced in the SDS that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We already have a third attempt to amend the tax procedure law. Thirdly, we are faced with a bill that, according to our assessment, would contribute to the elimination of administrative barriers and the reduction of the costs on the part of the taxpayers for the payment of various taxes. According to the drafter, the taxpayers should be liable to pay more than 10 different sub-accounts. For each of the sub-accounts, a separate payment order must be completed and a commission must be paid for each bank. On the one hand, it is a solution that relieves the debtors of administrative burdens and, on the other hand, inevitably reduces the operating costs of businesses and other debtors. Of course, the government once again opposes the exact same arguments as it has so far. Arguments: such a very complex problem cannot be adequately or substantively complete and correctly defined as proposed. However, the Government remains aware of the importance of simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other obligations, so on 26 May 2008 it appointed a special working group to simplify the system of charging and payment of taxes, contributions, other compulsory duties and public financial revenues. After more than two years of operation, the working group has already prepared a draft model for simplification of the tax system, which will be implemented within the deadline, which is in 2011. Why rush when there's no need? The consequences of these government priorities, unfortunately, are borne by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments are necessary and useful and the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In considering the position of the DeSUS Group on this bill, it was the original idea for DeSUS Members to present to the branch an identical position, as we have already presented it, when we addressed such content under the copy-stick system used by the proposer. Indeed, for the fourth time, we have been looking at practically identical solutions in these cases. It is a matter of amending the same law with only a date difference. The latter means that we have already said our views three times on this proposal. The Government has also three times reasoned on its position and presented guidelines and activities in the direction of the proposed one. We recognize that the proposed solution to the single transfer of tax liabilities to the common account and thus the reduction of the administrative burdens of taxpayers is welcome. The idea is certainly not a bad idea, but the realization of such a change is not as simple as the proposalr is trying to present it in any way. There is certainly no need to amend just one or two articles of one law and the problem will be solved. It is a more complex consequence of the introduction of a single account and therefore it is necessary to look at the introduction of the single account in an integrated manner. In order to simplify the system of payment of levies and thereby reduce administrative barriers, the government working group has already developed a proposal for a new model, which, given its complexity, will be able to live within the deadline already set by the programme to remove administrative barriers, reducing administrative burdens by 25% by 2012; that is, in 2011. All these facts are known to the proposer, so on the one hand we cannot understand their insistence on continuing to make laws with this same content, which merely creates ballast. Not because of any unacceptable idea, this is close to us, but because of its incompetence, Members of the DeSUS do not support the proposed amendment to the tax procedure law. We will therefore vote in favour of the conclusion that the latter is not suitable for further consideration. Of course, we expect the Government to implement such measures in the direction and time dynamics as the Government has announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Jože Tanko wants to speak. As a proponent? Please, Josie Tanka as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! In this general debate, which we have before us, we are talking about the fundamental principles of law, fundamental principles. When I listen to the views of the parliamentary groups, I see that there are no fundamental solutions to the Government either, or to the actions of the law, in fact, no contradictions. No objections. The government has even stated in its opinion that it is a fundamental procedural law in the field of tax collection, rights and obligations of taxpayers, public authorities and so on. So we've gone about this the right way. It was previously stated by the Government that the problem was, in fact, that in certain laws, sectoral laws, certain obligations were different, recovery was different, payment was different, this was previously stated in the oral position of the Government, and that this could even be regulated by a regulation in order to implement these solutions. I wonder how this will be regulated by the rule of law if it interferes with many laws. For example, it interferes with the tax procedure law, pension and disability insurance, health insurance, health care, social security contributions and so on. I would like to know how the Government will arrange this fundamental tax collection process with some sub-law adopted by the Minister. I think that there is a need to take a systematic, systematic, orderly approach in the area of tax regulation and that it is necessary to make a legal basis on which the sub-legislative acts are then issued. If a fundamental procedural law such as the Tax Procedure Act does not allow for any changes, then it is likely necessary to amend the basic procedural law. It's the Tax Procedure Act. But if these things can be handled differently, then I have a slightly bigger problem. Because the government has known this problem for a long time. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has issued a number of requests from Slovenian entrepreneurship, Slovenian crafts and, in fact, there is no year when the simplification of this system has not been recorded in its memorandum in its requirements, which it issued every year. He's not here! If, in the previous government, the previous Minister of May 2008, Dr. Bayuk set up a working group, then such a simple problem as paying or reducing the number of positions that entrepreneurs have to pay could reduce, could change the frequency; by means of a sub-legislative act, it would be easy to arrange for certain contributions that amount to one quarter of the value of the bet to be paid once a year or half a year, or at least a quarter a year. This is a force easy to regulate with some rule. But apparently the problem is deeper. Obviously, things that are detected are not really in the government's ambition to do anything in this area. I think that after the current Minister of Public Administration has obtained a global recognition granted to Slovenia by removing administrative obstacles and the burden in the previous term that this coalition "has fallen all the way down". Nothing in the field of rationalisation, nothing in the field of simplification, nothing in the area of cost reduction is happening, not in the administrative work, pure bureaucratic work, not in the financial work, in the financial business. I do not understand why employers, for example, should pay a contribution to employment, I do not know, of 350 % of the average wage, of 50 % of the average wage of 1.34 euros and of the bank fees of 2 euros of 50 per form of payment. I would like to know what the logic of such a way of paying for the contribution in question is. I don't think that makes any sense. For example, we have the employer's contribution to parental care, which is paid at 0.1%, and only when it reaches 180% of the average wage paid, is it 1.8 average wages, has the amount allocated identical to the commission costs on the bank window. Is there really nothing in this area that can be done, nothing concrete to change? I think that's for sure. Here we can talk about the paradoxical situation, how in the positions of coalition parliamentary groups as in the government's position: the purpose of the law is O.K. The aim of the law is true, but the solution, if adopted, would be to reject some regulation in this area, said colleague Saiovic on behalf of LDS. Really? If we propose simplification by law, this simplification certainly cannot constitute any obstacle to the process of paying taxpayers' tax obligations. Certainly not, it means simplification. And I'm just wondering how it's possible to find such controversial dictions and solutions in positions. The same is true of the government’s position. He says that this is a fundamental procedural law governing all forms of payment — that is, in its written position. In the oral statement, the Secretary of State said that it was possible to remedy this, correct it, and remedy it with a rule. It's not from anywhere. That the Government is aware of the problem, the previous one, we are now halfway through the mandate of this government and there is still no action. However, nothing has happened in this area, and so on, to be aware of the problems of removing administrative barriers and blockades. To be aware of the prices of services that entrepreneurs must pay, nothing is done to rationalise these procedures in order to minimise costs. A key, fundamental problem is some computer system that is not supposed to allow for anything. I think it's within this multitude of civil servants in the government that it's possible to find one or even a few tens or a few hundred that are so understood in computer science and programming that these anomalies can be easily arranged and eliminated. We probably don't need any major expertise or big orders from external institutions or anyone. These are daily routines. These are measures that can be remedied and remedied in each work process when they occur. I think it's possible to do that. In fact, I do not understand how much effort, how much effort the Government is putting into drawing up some positions to turn against the opposition's candidates, but nothing can then be done in the next step to actually try to do something. It will be difficult for anyone in this country to convince me that nothing concrete could be done in two years or a year and a half in this area. Nothing at all. That's not the first warning. For the first time, I saw it in the 2008 Slovenian trade requirements under order number 35, and I think that the current government, as well as the then Finance Minister Dr. Bajuk, reacted correctly and immediately set up a group to prepare solutions for these matters. Unfortunately, elections have taken place in the meantime and the responsibility for implementing such administrative matters has been given to the new government, but nothing has happened. Also in the years to come, for example, in 2010 – you also have requirements, a brochure of Slovenian crafts in which this measure is written under order number 1 in chapter How to accelerate the development and growth of small and micro-enterprises. Under order number one. First step, first problem to be solved in this area. And I don't understand, say, the government's position that nothing has happened in this area in two years, that nothing has been prepared, nothing has resolved, even in such simple matters. I think that more attention should be given to solutions in this area than to proposals. For by doing so, for example, we have had cases in the legislative process already in this mandate of individual support for the coalition's proposals for solutions that are not even the best. It wasn't a problem. Here is the problem with supporting both the government and the coalition of solutions, with which they said in their views that everyone is aware that the problem is that the direction is right, that the goal is first, that the purpose of the law is true, only that something in the middle of a matter is wrong. I think, if the Government knows what the problem is with this proposal, then it is easy to make an amendment, just as government laws are being remedied, even in this part of the process detail improves. No problem. We have no problem with that. We also do this not for ourselves, but tens of thousands of those who are obliged to apply this tax law, this procedural law, and pay their obligations, expect something radical to change in this area. A lot of people, tens of thousands of people, I don't think it's silly to say that the bank commission is on one of the positions and that's not the only thing, for all those who have another employee next to them, there are at least four such bills at the average salary, each month – then there's something wrong with the commission being three times the value of the money, and this month after month, year after year. [[...]] In this way this small trade, these small entrepreneurs in the state budget pay, I don't know, €15.20 million more than would be necessary. Every drop they pay for this purpose is unnecessary. Unnecessary! If this were otherwise settled, the amount per post would not be higher than the amount of the fee per post than at each of these nine, ten, eleven points to be completed. Nothing would be higher! For 2.5 euros or 1.40 euros, it depends on which bank they use, which mode of payment, they would pay all obligations because they were supposed to go beyond these matters. That's how much you pay for everyone. I think the government should do something extraordinary in a short time, I would say, effective in this area. Or we wait, I don't know, two more years for these systems to run, things are happening, we're going to propose laws, you're going to say they're stupid, they don't have the right content, etc. I don't think that's gonna work. And if the Government is preparing a position now for the fourth time, without in the midst of a single sentence, what is the progress report for this working group that had this task of preparing the system's rationalisation, then something is wrong. You would probably be able to have a general discussion on these issues, which you are proposing, for which a working group is established, on the Committee on Finance, there could be a presentation of the actions of this working group. If the coalition is aware of this problem, it could convene an urgent meeting of the Finance Committee or an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Will you wait for the opposition to do so and then point all the arrows back at this unfortunate opposition that proposes some solutions and disturbs the coalition with them? We do not propose these laws to upset the coalition or to interfere with the work of the coalition. This is probably a suitable basis for the coalition to take a step forward. Thank God if anyone else suggests to her that there is no need to invent other things in areas where there is a will! I think that if we wanted to, and if it were good will, in this area, these things should be dealt with as quickly as possible. Nor should there be any problem that the solutions that are taking place in the working group, those brainstorming you have, all those things that relate to the rule that you mentioned that you would actually familiarize Members of the National Assembly and also give them a diary. The year 2009 when this working group was to prepare solutions was long overdue. The year 2010 will now be completed. Three months is still there, and we still have no information on whether this will be a proposed change before the end of the year, whether it will be in the middle of a business year, whether it will be transferred to 2012 or ever later. The responsible government, if it's set up a model, some concept, if it's inherited a working group, then I should probably get something out of the National Assembly. There's no such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Matthew Vraničar, spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. The latest entries need some clarifications. The bill can be regarded as suitable for further consideration if the principles, objectives and main solutions of the bill are in line with each other. As I have already mentioned in my introductory debate and as stated in the Government's written opinion, the Government estimates that the target is appropriate and attractive. However, the proposed solutions, such as the draft law, cannot achieve this objective. These solutions contained in the bill are not operationally feasible. If we listened carefully, we would see the difference in the necessary amendments to the rules for the implementation of these solutions contained in the bill, and in this case, of course, it is necessary to fall into the laws on taxation, the law on pensions, the law on health insurance. I have been talking about a different concept prepared by the working group, which will combine individual payment accounts into three state-level accounts: for the state budget, for the pension budget and for the health treasury, and for the provision of 210 accounts for individual municipalities. For this change that is being processed and prepared by the said working group, I have said that there is no need to amend the law, but that a solution can be found in the regulation, it is possible to regulate the solution with the rules on payment accounts or sub-accounts. At the same time, a much more important part of the task is to carry out appropriate operating procedures both for the debtors and for the tax authority, as well as for the public payment administration, which then allocates the public financial revenues to individual recipients, so that the whole system can continue to function properly. Not only do we need to ensure that public revenue is paid as efficiently, as easily as possible and as cheaply as possible, we also need to ensure that we are able to monitor the correctness and timeliness of payment of individual public levies. Therefore, we need a time to adjust and prepare appropriate equipment so that we can ensure, on the one hand, a simple and cheap payment of public financial levies and, on the other hand, we will not jeopardise the inflows or encourage increased non-payment of duties. Some contributions were mentioned, the amount of which is set at a very low percentage. This raises a completely different question and not a question that is the subject of the law under consideration today. This is a question of the system of parental protection insurance and unemployment. There is essentially a question that has been raised, or rather rhetorical, whether we need or do not need such a payment in essence. This is not a question of the number of payment accounts, but it is a question of whether such a type of insurance arranged in this way is still needed in essence, and this issue needs to be addressed under other rules, not in the context of the amendment of the tax procedure law. Presentation of the work of the working group, or I believe in the division of power between the legislative and executive authorities, but if the National Assembly wants or would require such a report by the working group, of course such a debate can also be held. So far, we have acted within the working group in accordance with our responsibilities. Things are moving forward, but it is true that there is a need to provide technical support in order to make the matter work, and this is not a question of some employees who are familiar with computers, but of building a comprehensive information system that will support all the functions of the tax service, and given that the procurement process has stalled in this context, we need to take into account what are the actual capabilities and possibilities for some suitable, consistent and practical feasible and efficient system we must also establish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When we were a little more than a year ago, and probably later, we had already introduced a law with the same content, and it was rejected, even though the former secretary Mrs Kamnareva then agreed with or supported the objectives, and also expressed the possibility that the Government would soon find the right solution. The situation is indeed paradoxical, because if we agree with the goals and really want to achieve this goal, then we will probably do everything we can to achieve that goal. If we know the goal and there is, say, more ways to achieve this goal, then I think we need to find the best way, not give up those goals because someone doesn't like the way. Well, after a year in this area, at least if we knew no, nothing happened, we tried again. I think that the proposal is completely non-political, purely technical and therefore there is no reason to oppose it. Moreover, it seems to me that the proposal for a law does not constitute any additional financial burden, but on the other hand, it does mean that an important part of economic operators is being unloaded and, as a result, savings are being made for these same entities. Also with regard to the obvious repetition of this law, on the other hand, you are doing the same, namely, everyone is calling and expecting the Government to prepare comprehensive and systemic solutions in the area of simplification of the system of payment and settlement of compulsory duties as soon as possible, and they are confident that it will also do so. It is because there are no solutions that have not yet happened that we have tried again. I am sure that the law is not only suitable for further consideration, but also necessary for further consideration and we will then find appropriate solutions, as the Government does me, that these solutions are not appropriate, but that you may propose a solution and that we will also achieve this objective, namely, economic stress, and, on the other hand, savings in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We are again faced with a law that we have proposed a long time ago, and we estimate that nothing has happened since then. Indeed, the Government often says that it is necessary to take rapid action, to help the economy, to actively engage in improving the environment for the economy and, in fact, to implement such measures themselves, which are more wound patch than some serious aid to the economy. We have adopted a proposal for a law on subsidisation of part-time work, compensation for pay losses and so on. The result after one year or after the expiry of such an effective measure is new redundancies. In fact, we have only extended the agony in some companies a little bit, but what we have not actually done is what we have not done. We also adopted the Small Work Act, which is once again a necessary measure, which, of course, will only come into force in 2012, so that by then a few more companies will have failed, a few thousand more companies will probably go bankrupt and everything will be happening under an emergency measure to which you are convincing us. The government representative says that, according to our proposal, things are not operationally feasible. Since we first proposed this, one year ago, there is probably something that can be done to be operationally feasible. And to say that you are working in the working group in the sense that these things would improve and even implement them – we heard the same arguments even one year ago. And we would expect something to happen from then on, or rightly so, to be in doubt if we hadn't made such suggestions that it probably wouldn't have worked out, but we would have waited for another government or another time for these things to be done. We just think that with a little effort or a little more serious approach to doing things much faster, some things overnight get us a computer program operator, an information system that will function in two days, and then, of course, things will collapse. It's a pure fact, and it's also true that things don't go overnight. But that since we first proposed, we are practically still talking about the same things after one year and we have not taken a step forward, even if you are saying that it is a step forward that a group is meeting and talking about this subject, and ultimately there is no result, is a worse comfort for it. But we will insist on things that we think do not require much change, even if there is another law to be changed, this is a minor correction and there is no need to coordinate with the social partners and there is no need to do without knowing what and these things can happen very quickly if it is the right will. I will support our proposal, and I hope that something will happen in the future or that the matter will be rejected again and we will have the same conversation in six months.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the government's representative? Would you like a representative of the proposaler, Mr. Tanko? Please, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Well, here we can find that every time we propose something in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the government is placed on the trenches, every single time. In this mandate we have proposed a series of financial laws, measures, we have proposed a series of laws from other areas, and no proposal, you can read this, was suitable for further consideration. I wonder if that's really possible. Are the proposals that we are proposing so incomprehensible, so incomplete, non-systematic that none of the measures would be capable of further consideration. Tomorrow we have a law on public financial responsibility, an opinion identical to that of this law. We had a whole series of laws, including, say, what was said about VAT – identical: it is not suitable for further consideration. I think that the Government devotes much too much effort to the negative arguments that we are proposing in our parliamentary group to deal too much with how to prove how to write and what to write that a good proposal is not a good proposal. Madam Secretary of State says we like our proposal. Our proposal does not like it, our proposal is that the state budget will not lose a single euro because of it, because those who now pay 11 posts will pay all their obligations by one foot. The country will not be deprived of any euro for this reason. But it is true that there will be 10 times fewer commissions for the banking system in this case if they pay with one ticket instead of 11 and there will be a difference. And the banking system will be deprived and all those who create money with their work on the market will profit, and they will not get those who market from because someone has done something, with some automation, with a predetermined model. The fact that the Government in some way does not give up in this area, in fact, to cover the senselessly high costs of commissions for payment of deposits, tells us a lot about the bank's standing behind this model, which is similar to that model with the sticker that we abolished, I don't know, in 2005 or 2006. The same concept: let us determine in advance how much he will earn in one of the areas, because the number of payments is about to be known, the frequency of it, the economic operators must pay it regularly and the cost of the commission is known. It's automatic. And if someone does everything to keep this model from changing, it's the same as when we had such a big fight to keep those famous stickers. It's exactly the same! Each of these craft will pay the parental protection contribution 12 times a year, give 2.5 euros a commission and the amount for each remittance and the amount of each remittance will be 60 cents, totaling 3.1 euros or more. And that's the logic advocated by the government. And instead of rationalizing, modernizing, eliminating anachronisms while you're in control of this country, you're firmly defending them. There is no change in this area. And here we have not put forward a proposal that we like, we have made a proposal that is necessary, unfortunately in the previous term we have not abolished this anomaly, nor has it been time since it came out in 2008 but in two years something in this area could be done. Surely, for those who think positively, those who have an ambition to do something about it could do so. After all, with similar opposition from the administration, an income reform was introduced, where the concept changed significantly in a short time and hit each of the Slovenians, some 10,000 Slovenians. And the error in that model is accounting for income, probably not a lot, and they're also getting rid of each other. Something similar can be predicted for this concept. The company that deals with electronics, with satellites, with many things, is in Slovenia as much as you want. We also have some famous company that manages a large majority of electronic systems, even in a few, they say, privileged way gets some sort of thing. One ministry, which has many officials and so on, cannot react in any way. I think that we should focus on reducing administrative barriers by 25% by 2012 much more efforts than have now been made. There is not one change in this area in two years. There's no change! If we want to do anything in this area, it will be necessary to take great steps not to talk about other areas where there are no changes – positive solutions. In short, I don't think it's appropriate for the government and the government coalition to keep a system that's obviously not a good one, which is evidencedly expensive, which is doing the unnecessary cost to all those who are obliged to use it. They have no choice but to use it. If in this case you do not have better solutions and excuse yourself to do something and think, then support those who are certainly good and lead to some aim of rationalising the reduction of unnecessary costs, removing obstacles, reducing waiting lines in front of bank windows, reducing the number of transactions in bank windows and so on. It's probably very easy to do. If the problem is because there will be fewer of these transactions, those who will be less burdened can be allocated to tax administrations to control the contributions received, if it is not possible to reverse these things, then in this country we can expect to continue working with these harsh systems. I think even in the East there is a country that has such a model in place, even in Eastern Europe there is one that hopes for such a system. You can check it out and make sure it exists. Only in the development of Slovenia, in the technological breakthrough of Slovenia, in a country where many things could be done better, two years ago we listened to this, there is nothing we can do at once. These concrete steps, which are necessary, have remained in the offices and a large number of papers are moving there virtually for nothing. If, as it is said, the Government has no solution if it does not intend to prepare anything in this area itself in a short time, and obviously from this debate the Secretary of State will not do anything important in this area, then support this solution. If you have a solution, put it on the table. We've been waiting for two years, there's no case, and people are paying for stupidity in these procedures, they're paying for stupidity. For 60 cents they pay the bank 2.5 euros. If you have a rules on how to enforce, this can be corrected by a regulation, but this specific tax obligation can be paid twice a year. If you don't have to, stop it. If anything else has to be done, let's change the procedural law. There's no problem, we don't have a problem paying each cashier individually. However, there would also be no specific obstacle to a collective account from which this could be distributed to individual tax warehouses. But probably the goal is to keep in this tax system a large mass of these people who will only deal with it by translating, controlling, controlling, and so on. Many things are unnecessary in this system. And what is unnecessary and expensive, needlessly expensive, needs to be corrected as soon as possible. And I hope the government can make this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Mr. Petan, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So we're in a time that's not exactly nice. We are at a time when we need to spar at every center, and we hear this somehow from our government, that we need to spar, that we need to tighten the belt and things like that. Finally, at the beginning of his term of office, the Prime Minister also said that he would pay for the coffees he needed. Of course, he also realized that he would not save Slovenia from saving Slovenia's finances, but with this he gave a pattern of conduct: you start with yourself, but depending on how much money you can manage, how much money you can spend, and if you start squandering on small things there, then you expect others to act rationally, and they will squander wherever possible. Last but not least, it has been particularly important in recent times what our budget is. The government is struggling with how much it has to save. Given that the Court of Auditors has found that in fact the Government has acted, I do not know what to say, unwisely, irrationally or like one who is an amateur who cannot manage the budget, it is more than a billion euro, which is not properly booked or properly charged or placed in the correct account or whatever. Basically, it's big numbers. The government has proved to be an amateur here and we have proposed to rationalise this procedure of these remittances from all the entities entrusted with separating for their employees all the burdens they are. He's got these in there by ten. And the proposer, Comrade Tanko, made it clear that sometimes the commission is significantly larger than the amount itself. And for the fourth time, we've already proposed that this should be settled, and the government keeps saying that it's impossible to do this, that the system doesn't allow, but I don't know what it's all about. That the law is not suitable for further consideration. Yeah, and I'm asking you, in which country does this system not allow it now? Is this in another country or in that country where that government works? This government is likely to rule, and it can draw up a system so that it will work if it is rational. On the one hand, you're tightening up, I don't know, with the pensioners, I'd like to see doctors, and then in the public sector, I'd like to – on the average. Here, however, a person proposes something concrete, and it would also be useful to reduce the administration that we all fear after all, and ten positions for some small amount, if we could with one. If the state could do this or have prepared a system like this – excuse me, this government can and can draw up a system like this. How many systems we've changed at this time! But we can't do that where we can save something!? And we keep listening, but the government doesn't think that this law is suitable for further consideration, and what other nonsense we accept by means of a quick procedure. And given that a person gets the feeling that this government does not realize that it has a government, that it has scissors and canvas in its hands and that it can change such a procedure, it can change the law, it can change anything else, it can change the information system so how much money has been given for information systems at that time, for modernisation, but it can probably not, because that would then mean that it would actually be rationalisation and probably someone would lose their pot. [[...]] And when we listen to all this and you make fun of it, for the fourth time we have been telling you, and you, how inappropriate this law is for further processing, you do wonder if the law is inappropriate for further consideration or if this government is unfit for further rule. After all this, one really wonders whether this government is really fit for further rule if such a simple law as we propose, which would simplify something that would reduce costs, reduce the way – that it is not appropriate for the Government to simply not accept it, that it cannot accept it into its system, then the question arises to me whether this government is really suitable for further rule. I support this bill, which is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on court fees within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u128	Dear Member and honourable Members! Let me introductoryly apologize to the Minister of Justice, who is detained at the government's meeting and will join this assembly as soon as possible. Allow me to introduce to you below a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees. As of 1 October 2008 a new law on judicial fees has been in force in the field of judicial fees, which has brought a number of new developments. Most of them have been introduced with the aim of simplifying the payment of court fees and encouraging a more rational initiation of judicial proceedings. However, following the entry into force of the law, it has been shown that the new regime in practice also causes certain problems, particularly in the area of payment and payment of court fees. Such problems have been brought to our attention by the courts, and we have taken the necessary legislative changes into account soon after the adoption of their first comments. During the drafting of the amendment, which is under discussion today, there was a need for further amendments, since several procedural rules have changed since the entry into force of the Law on Judicial Fees, with which this law must be harmonised to the greatest extent possible. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees constitutes an upgrade to the applicable law. Among the most important innovations in the normative part of the law are the following: in the decision-making procedures concerning the obligation to pay court fees, such as the decision on the application for exemption, the deferral or the rebate of court fees, the decision against the payment order under the Law on Court Fees-1 and the like, procedural laws applicable to proceedings for which court fees are also paid will apply mutatis mutandis. With regard to the procedure for payment of court fees, an obligation will be laid down for a taxable person to provide an appropriate reference on payment or to submit a payment certificate to the court. This will save the Court additional work on the search for fees in individual proceedings. It will be explicitly determined when the fee will be deemed paid and the law will also include new provisions on the timeliness of payment of court fees. The procedure for objecting to a payment order will be more precisely regulated. With regard to such exemptions, a new exemption will be provided for social work centres where applicants are in the process of regulating personal situations and family relations. The new tax will no longer have to be paid in administrative disputes on the recognition of international protection under the law governing international protection. The Court will be able to postpone the payment of fees to the customer as long as possible until the decision is taken and there will be no time limits on the remuneration. An assumption will be made that the payment of fees would significantly reduce the means by which the party or its family members are provided that the customer receives financial social assistance. This means that such a party will be exempt from payment of judicial fees. In the decision-making process on the proposal for the exemption of the deferral or the payment of interest, a system will be established to prevent interference with the privacy of the applicant. In the context of fees and tariffs, it is proposed to complete the system of judicial fees and to bring it into line with the amended procedural rules. Let me mention in particular the most important novelty of this work. This will provide new fees for the procedure for issuing a European order for payment, for the European low-value dispute procedure, for the procedure for regulating mutual relations in the event of construction beyond the property boundary, and for the procedure for the establishment of a level-of-floor property and for the procedure for determining the property to be owned by the building. Special restrictions will also be imposed on the average fee for bankruptcy of up to EUR 2 000, on the average fee for compulsory settlement of up to EUR 2 000, on the certification fee of up to EUR 50 and 25 and on the legal aid fee of up to EUR 2 000. The fee for the application of claims in insolvency proceedings and the fee for the procedure for the application for discharge of liabilities in the event of personal bankruptcy shall be abolished. However, due to the proposed amendments to the Land Book Act, it is necessary to amend the legal fees for land-booking proceedings in most cases. The fee for the procedure for the application for the registration of property rights, as the most up-to-date of them, will be applied on a new scale according to the value of the property in which the book is requested and will on average be 35% lower than the current fee. The reduction in this fee is linked to the lower operating costs of the Land Book Departments of the Courts for the introduction of electronic commerce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the presentations of the Group's positions. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The aim of the proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees is to: improve the procedure for payment and determination of paid court fees; ensure legal certainty in procedures relating to the decision-making of the obligation to pay judicial fees; more appropriate and more fully determine the judicial fees under such tariffs. The proposed arrangement amends the procedure for payment and determination of paid court fees by allowing the parties and the courts to verify effectively and reliably whether, in each case, the judicial fee is paid and at what amount it is paid, whether the payment has been made in a timely manner. In accordance with the proposed amendments, an appropriate reference will have to be made for the payment of a court fee, which will be communicated to such a debtor by the court in advance, or evidence of payment of the fee will have to be provided to the court. In this way, the court will be able to check the payment of the court fee in any case without further inquiries. The proposed amendment provides that the provisions of the law governing individual proceedings for which court fees are paid shall apply mutatis mutandis in the proceedings concerning the payment of judicial fees under this Act, unless otherwise provided for in this law. Since the applicable law on judicial fees does not specifically regulate all procedural situations related to the decision on the obligation to pay court fees nor in this regard does it reflect the reasonable application of the relevant procedural rules, there have been doubts in the practice of the courts as to how to deal with these situations. In order to remedy that situation and to ensure legal certainty, that area should be regulated in the Law on Judicial Fees. In addition to the general provision referred to above on the application of the relevant procedural rules, a number of specific provisions are included in the Law on Court Fees to regulate cases. The proposed novelty provides for a new court fee for the procedure for the arrangement of mutual relations in the case of construction beyond the property boundary and for a court fee for the procedure under the law governing the establishment of a floor property on the proposal of the acquirer of a particular part of the building and the determination of the property belonging to the building. In some fees, the regulation is only partially altered, which is mainly the subject of insolvency, misdemeanour and land-booking procedures, and in some cases the necessary clarifications are being modified or added. In this way, the determination of court fees will be more appropriate and more appropriate. The law follows the same principles as the law in force, allowing for the acceleration of the procedure and the proportionality between the level of the court fee and the service of the court, for which a court fee must be paid. We will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats Club will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed content of the law is suitable for further consideration. The new Law on Judicial Fees follows the basic concept and principles of the applicable law and introduces certain amendments to which the drafter states that they are prepared also on the basis of the observations of the courts, but this is not fully perceived in the opinion of the Council of Justice or the Council of Justice notes that the proposal is not based on previous expert analyses and changes and complicates the already absent system. We therefore propose that the proposed amendment of the law and the operators of this regulation prepare any appropriate corrections for the second reading. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support solutions relating to the payment process itself and the determination of fees paid, the exemption, the deferral and the payment of court fees, and the completion of the system of court fees under such tariffs. For procedures for payment and determination of fees paid, a solution is proposed, which is aimed at decommissioning both taxpayers and courts. It is possible to check more effectively and more reliably whether in individual cases the fee is paid, at what amount and whether it is paid on time. On this basis, the Courts will determine in any case and will doubtless, without further inquiry, whether or not the individual court fee has been paid and paid on time. The exemption, deferral and payment of court fees shall be extended to the decision-making procedure on the application for exemption, deferral or rebate of court fees and the appeal against the decision pursuant to this proposal and to the decision-making procedure against the order of payment. The nature of those procedures is similar to that of the decision-making process for granting free legal aid. Taxes will also be exempt, according to the new social work centres, when applicants will be in the procedures for the regulation of personal conditions and family relations and the exemption of court fees in legal disputes on the recognition of international protection under the law governing international protection. In recognition of the delay in payment, however, security guards are also provided for in order to avoid abuse. This is mainly the case with the submission of a statement on the property situation that will be prepared on a specific form and will form part of the proposal to exempt the payment of legal fees. Within the framework of insolvency charges, the application fee and the fee for the motion for discharge for personal bankruptcy shall be abolished, and special restrictions shall be proposed for the average bankruptcy fee and the average compulsory settlement fee. There are new legal fees for certain proceedings because they have not been explicitly established so far. These are fees for procedures for issuing a European order for payment and fees for a European procedure in small-value disputes. There are also new charges for refusing an objection to the judgment issued in the summary proceedings. The amount of the fee for the rejection or refusal of a request for judicial protection shall be changed, and in part the fee for the appeal procedure shall be amended in the context of the proceedings concerning the request for judicial protection. Minor changes are set out in the context of specific fees for the infringement procedure. It should also be pointed out that some of the changes are also necessary due to amendments to the amendment of the Land Book Act. The proposed amendments to the Land Book Act, in particular as regards the way in which land applications are submitted, have led to changes in court fees or will change. These changes are as follows. The current registration fee or prior to the registration of property rights shall be changed in two respects: it shall be replaced by a fee for the procedure for the application for the registration of property rights or for the book change of the basic legal status of the property. In view of the fact that it will be a fee for the procedure for the application for a book, it will have to be paid when this proposal is submitted and not only after the award of the decision on the authorisation of entry for payment to the debtor. There's also a change in the height of this tax. As before, it will be dosed according to the value of the property in which the book is required, but it will no longer be determined by a factor, but by a special scale. Such a fixed fee will on average be 35% lower than the current fee. Electronic service will reduce the cost of service to professional officials, proponents, notaries and lawyers, as e-mails are 4 times smaller than postal service for regular mail, and electronic service does not generate costs of printing and converting. The present book fee or other rights that are entered in the land book are being amended by paying the proposed regulation only for the procedure for the proposal for the acquisition or transfer of mortgages, the acquisition of land debt and the acquisition or transfer of building rights. However, the procedure for the proposal for the incorporation of other rights will be free of charge. The amount of this fee remains unchanged, which is EUR 50 and will have to be paid when the application for registration is submitted. The current registration fee is amended so that it will have to be paid in a new manner only for the application procedure for the registration of the register of the order and the marking of the non-derogation or load ban. However, the procedure for the application for the entry of other trade marks will be free of charge. The amount of this tax, however, increases to EUR 25 from the previous 12 euros. We propose that, until the second reading of the law on the home labour body, solutions be drawn up to address perceived uncertainties by the operators of these regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group strongly rejects the law on judicial fees at a stage such as now, because this law is diametrically contrary to the principles and objectives of this basic law and, of course, we also join the negative opinion of the Council of Justice, which, to a large extent, does not support such a proposal. We will make some amendments in the future, as the Group of Members, which are also expected to improve this law accordingly. It must be said that we also support certain solutions in this proposal, but if those amendments that we will table in order to improve this text and, above all, are cheap for users where it is being auctioned, we cannot support such a law in further consideration. The fact is that this amendment to the law in order to create additional unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, additional unnecessary costs by demonstrating the payment of court fees, further burdens the users of judicial services, and, of course, it does. This is one of those important negative features of this law. It is also important here to make it clear that in disputes of minor values and in land-booking procedures for small-value property, the court fee is essentially increasing. So that the indications that we have heard today, and probably we will continue to do so, do not hold on to them. Inflows of court fees will be reduced at the expense of the land book cases. The proposal itself lists the figures to reduce on average these court fees, but no one has said here – we will hear this in the Land Book Act – that these amounts, this money, will flow back into the pockets of notaries and also lawyers. Therefore, we will also ask the Secretary of State or the Minister in the next law, specifically with these numbers, to give us the exact answers to what this means for our users. However, since, as I mentioned, we also partly support this law, especially in the part where court fees are being reduced, means that where court fees will be lower, then we support this law also in our work so that no more court fees are required to declare claims in bankruptcy proceedings, and we also support where a court fee is introduced in those new procedures of the European order for payment and the European procedure in the small value dispute. Let us hope that these comments will be taken into account in further consideration and that then there will be a law that will benefit our users of these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed novelty is intended to improve the procedure for payment and determination of paid court fees, to ensure legal certainty in the procedures relating to the decision-making of the obligation to pay judicial fees and to more appropriately and more fully determine court fees under such tariffs. The proposed novelty sets out some new ones and at the same time eliminates some of the taxes in force so far. In the SLS Group, it seems wise for us to establish a system whereby the customer receiving financial social assistance will be exempt from payment of court fees. We also support the reduction of taxes in land-book matters, in all bankruptcy and enforcement procedures. In general, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are most concerned about the opinion of the Council of Justice, which does not fully support the law, and even notes that the proposal is not based on previous expert analyses, that it changes and complicates the already fledgling system and that some solutions are not well thought out. We are also of the opinion that the proposal for a law complicates the system so far and that the parties will be considerably confused instead of facilitating their procedures. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we hope that the proposer will prepare a better proposal for the second reading, which will in fact be in line with those objectives of the proposal, and that the Government will also take into account the opinions and recommendations of the Council of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of Mr Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the previous term, a law was adopted in this Chamber, which has redefined the system of judicial fees, whose objectives are aimed at a faster, more rational and more current procedure of the judicial authorities with regard to judicial fees, such as the introduction of a uniform court fee for the first stage proceedings. Among other things, a solution has been adopted which is intended to contribute significantly to the removal of administrative obstacles, namely, in relation to the proof of payment of court fees when no evidence of payment of judicial fees is required for the taxpayer after payment has been made. The purpose, I repeat, was good, but unfortunately good legal provisions sometimes reflect poorly in practice, this also proved to be true in paying or demonstrating evidence of a paid tax in this law. It is therefore necessary to approach the changes that have proven to be shortcomings in practice in order to avoid any further doubt or to check with certainty whether the specific fee has been paid. The amendments going in this direction are supported by the Desus Group. We also support changes in the direction of the extension of the time-limit for the payment of such liabilities, as it has proved that the current period is too short for 12 months, and only after this time period can it sometimes prove that the customer is otherwise able to pay this obligation. As appropriate, we also assess changes in the work of such tariffs. The fact is that the current system of judicial fees has in practice proved to be inappropriate, inappropriate, which is therefore also the reason for the uniform conduct of judicial bodies, and the unanimity of judicial practice leads to a violation of the constitutional principle of equality of treatment or the provision of equal human rights and fundamental freedoms for everyone. Members of the DeSUS therefore agree with the proposaler that a transition to the upgrading of this law is necessary and we will therefore vote in favour of the appropriateness of this proposal for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! The new Law on Judicial Fees, which has been in force since 1 October 2008, has brought a number of innovations in practice and has already shown certain weaknesses. A significant problem, both to the courts and to the parties, is the determination of the payment of court fees, so in the Slovenian National Party's Group we support changes to the law that eliminates such problems and we hope that the courts will be able to determine in any case whether or not the individual court fee has been paid and whether it has been paid in time. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we also support the extension of such exemptions in procedures similar to those where free legal aid is decided. In these cases, it is a matter of deciding whether the party will be obliged to cover certain costs of judicial proceedings, which makes it appropriate for these fees to be free. There is also a new proposal for a reasonable such exemption for social work centres where applicants are in the procedures for the regulation of personal conditions and family relations, and for the exemption of court fees in administrative disputes on the recognition of international protection. Furthermore, the provision is deleted that the deferral period or the total payment time shall not exceed 12 months. This changes the current arrangements whereby taxpayers have in practice been repeatedly exempt from fees, even though that payment would have been able if payment rations had been more favourable for them. Instead of that restriction, it is therefore laid down that the court may suspend the payment of fees to the customer for as long as possible until the decision is taken and there are no time frames for the payment of interest payments. These proposed amendments to the Law on Judicial Fees undoubtedly follow the objective of a more fair regulation of the payment of court fees, but the proposed amendment still brings some changes, which are by no means acceptable to the Slovenian National Party. We are absolutely opposed to the regulation that provides for new court fees for certain proceedings, since no fees have been fixed so far. We also find the amount of individual fees disputed. In this regard, they are primarily referring to new fixed charges for the procedure for the arrangement of mutual relations in the event of construction beyond the property boundary, for the procedure for the establishment of the property and for the procedure for the establishment of the property to the building and for the modification of the fees for the registration of the property rights and for the markings. In view of the fact that the areas covered by the main solutions to the draft law that are not acceptable to the Slovenian National Party exceed those which bring welcome changes, the new law on judicial fees in question will not receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. [[You won't?]] Thank you very much. Mr. Kolaric Anton has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u142	As in the opening statement, I will only stress once again that the Social Democrats will support the proposal and hope that, at the second stage of the committee, we will put an end to the uncertainties that have arisen and that the law can then be passed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Mrs. Silva Nigga. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Ivan Grill. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Sylven Tiny was just discussing it. Mr. Skrlec, do you want a word on behalf of the Government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On this point, I would like to point out in particular the following. As I understand from the responses of the members of the groups, Member States support the part of the law that means the reduction of court fees, and also the part of the law that represents the adjustment of the system to what the courts have warned us about. I would like to say that the beginning of work on this law was based precisely on the fact that the courts have reminded us of some of the problems they face in practice when using this new system. The main response to these findings is the law. The opinion of the Council of Justice, which you presented or mentioned, came to the National Assembly and we were, in fact, aware of it at the Ministry when the proposal was already put into the procedure. During the inter-sectoral coordination phase, we have coordinated with all actors with whom normal coordination is carried out and we have achieved coordination here. It follows from this opinion of the Council of Justice that the Council of Justice will forward its proposals to a second hearing. For this reason, we also look forward to the opinion of the Council of Justice with considerable curiosity, and we will be able to define ourselves further to this opinion. I can't even argue more about this opinion at this time, because there is a substantive explanation why they do not fully support the proposals of the law, and I conclude from their reply that they support it in part, but not in part, as I have already said, from this opinion at this point in time, so I would not be spreading the debate in this part. I would also like to point out that in this law, the Government follows the current situation facing our economy and introduces a number of reductions in court fees, including, in particular, those relating to insolvency proceedings and insolvency proceedings, and in particular, the new social correction to be considered such an exemption, or that the customer is not considered to be able to pay a fee when receiving social money. With this, of course, we want to make the court more accessible to those layers that are economically weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. All the people you wanted, you got your word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u146	Although I was previously reported, the matter was going on so fast that I was just away, and I will ask two short questions in the end. For the first time, I am surprised that the Council of Justice has somehow not participated in the preparation of this law itself, only after it had responded and expressed its disagreement with certain solutions. I find it unusual that this profession was not included here. In particular, the Secretary of State would like to ask you one question, which we will then ask in the details at the next point when we talk about the Land Book Act. Can you say in concrete terms, this is probably the most up-to-date question for our users, how much has someone had to pay in the case of the registration of property rights for real estate, which is, say, 1,000 euros so far and how much will it pay after this law or land book law has been passed? According to information or calculations, this amount will be five times or even several times higher for these lower values than otherwise. And that's what matters most to us in these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u147	Does anyone mind if I give another word to Mr. Schrlec?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's only right that we explain these things. As regards the participation of the Council of Justice in the adoption of this legislation, it has not been directly involved in intersectoral coordination and professional coordination alone. That's right. It is true, however, that this legislation was produced in close cooperation with the courts. The proposals included in the law are the result of the findings of the courts. Because of this, as I have already said, we are somewhat surprised by the response of the Council of Justice, so we look forward to a more detailed definition of those parts where the Council of Justice does not agree with the proposal for a law so that we can take a position on these different positions and, if necessary, explain and resolve any disagreements. As regards the costs of the courts themselves and the amounts of payments to be paid to the citizens in the Land Book Procedures, I think it is better that we wait for the second part of the debate, where I will certainly also present specific numbers for individual property values and a concrete comparison between how much it costs after today's regulation and how much this service will cost under the new regime. I can tell you about the title of the property right now without looking at the tables that at all property values the final amount for the customer will be lower if it is with the notary as it is under today's regulation if it invests itself. The only exception here is the amount of up to 1,000 euros, where the difference is 1 euro. That's the only difference. Rumors and data on a five-fold increase are not true. For there is a need to look at the combination of a court fee and a notary tariff, which is also in the process of changing. And both together will be the final price and this final price will be lower, which I will gladly explain below at the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. We're moving to 23. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for supplementary reasons, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Boštjan Škrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! This time, too, let me introductoryly apologize to the minister who is detained at the extraordinary meeting of the Government and will join us as soon as possible. You have before you the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act and allow me to say something about what this law brings. The fundamental right to real law is a property right that guarantees an individual all legal and permissible authority over the matter. The property right to real estate shall be obtained only when it is entered in the land book. The longer the time in which the registration of property rights in the land register is not carried out, the greater the risk for a natural or legal person in terms of legal certainty. The main objective of the amendment to the Land Book Act is to accelerate and simplify the registration process itself in the Land Book, thereby increasing the legal certainty of an individual in legal traffic with real estate, including by taking advantage of all the advantages offered by modern information solutions. In preparing the text of the proposal for a new law, the drafter worked closely with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia as representatives of the judiciary. The result of such cooperation and the application or implementation of proposals and observations by the Land Book Courts and the Records Division of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is the proposal for this amendment of the law. The bill amends the procedural rules in particular with a view to speeding up the procedure, making the land book more accessible and improving legal certainty in legal traffic with real estate. The new law introduces comprehensive information on all registration decision-making processes and also introduces an informationised collection of documents. The bill also provides for mandatory electronic submission of land-book proposals and the management of electronic file. Novela respects the principle of "everything in one place". Since the procedure will be fully informed, this undoubtedly means a time savings for the party, since the party will be able to arrange for the qualified authority to immediately submit the land-book proposal immediately after the conclusion of the binding and available legal business. This will significantly reduce the time since the land register's verification until the land application and subsequent registration are submitted, while the filing through a notary or a lawyer will be less incomplete. According to the latest data, the average time taken to decide on land matters is 1.4 months. After the new proposed regulation, the time of the court's decision is substantially reduced. The target time of the court's decision is a few days. Compulsory submission of electronic proposals through qualified court investors significantly relieves ancillary tasks, allowing for faster and better decision-making. The same regime applies to applications for registration in the Court Register and has extremely good results since the deadlines have decreased significantly. The Court Register is no longer lagging behind, and this objective will also be achieved by introducing these solutions in the field of the Land Book. New procedural solutions and procedural information will bring about a level playing field in the courts. The decision-making time in land-book matters will be uniform, no longer depends on the burden of a particular place or individual court as it is now. The final cost will be reduced for the party wishing to obtain the registration of ownership rights in the Land Book, as we are simultaneously reducing the legal fees in the Land Book Procedures and the procedure for amending the Notary Tariff in this part is already under way. The party will be able to submit over 93 notaries and over 1300 lawyers. All of this will simplify the system of making proposals and making the land book accessible to an individual. It is worth mentioning that the amendment of the Land Book Act during a transitional period of three years from the entry into force of the law also allows a citizen to still submit a proposal for a book of property rights in his own favour directly before the Court of Justice by making a personal statement during the official hours before the Land Book Court in the area of which the property is the subject of the proposal. During a transitional period, the courts will assist the party in drawing up a land-book proposal at the request of the customer. Finally, let me stress once again that this method of submitting the client's land-book proposal will also be cheaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group of Members, the first word on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act, which is the subject of today's debate, will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats as an appropriate text for further consideration. Let me briefly summarize the history of the adoption of this so-called new Land Book Act, which was essentially adopted in 2003. The more important objectives of this new Land Book Act were to put more trust in notaries and to improve the quality and speed of the land-booking process through such a way of making land-book proposals. The adoption of the law in 2008 laid the last legal basis for the establishment of an electronic introduction of a land book proposal by notaries or the manner in which the procedures were to be carried out. The deadline for carrying out this procedure was 1 May 2009. In March 2009, due to the incomplete information system or incomplete informationisation of the courts, we adopted a new amendment which extended the deadline and set on 1 May 2011 as the deadline for the completion of this demanding multi-year project. In view of the fact that the Supreme Court of Justice has informed the Ministry that the information technology to support the e-business of the courts is ready, the Government has decided that this amendment of the Land Book Act will also complete this project. This current novel brings the introduction of a method of writing into the main book of the Land Book, which consistently reflects the content of real estate relations in accordance with the rules of the Real Law Code, the comprehensive informationisation of all business processes relating to the decision-making and the introduction of an IT collection of documents. It also follows the fundamental principles of the Land Book, among which are the most important principle of the public under which all the entries in the main book of the Land Book are public, the principle of the entry into force of the entries under which the entries of rights and legal facts in the Land Book have been effective from the moment the Land Book Court received the application for registration and when the Land Book Court has received the document on which the registration is decided by an official duty and also the principle of order. For customers, this is a quick decision due to electronic enrollment in the Land Book and, most importantly for customers, their legal certainty also increases. Nevertheless, we have some concerns in the Group of Social Democrats regarding the retention of documents and the submission of incomplete land-book proposals by notaries. As far as the preservation of the documents is concerned, we believe that the Government or the Ministry should reconsider the fact that the original or written form of the land register is kept in the courts of land, since it is a well-established and, above all, a secure form of preservation of the documents. This form of preservation also has historical value, even more so, it is part of a national history that was established more than 100 years ago. The aim of the novel, at least as we understand it in the Group of Social Democrats, is to reduce or eliminate the number of incomplete applications. We therefore believe that we should reconsider the solutions set out in Article 9 and Article 10 of the new 125a. Under these provisions, the notary, although the proposed incomplete proposal will be rejected by the court, must draw up a record of the fact that the party has pointed out the irregularities and, if the party signs such a minutes, submit the proposal. We believe that we will not burden ourselves with the proposed solution to cases with incomplete roles. We have some time before the final adoption of the law, so we propose that the uncertainties be resolved to the extent that in practice the proposed solution will not create any additional complications between the participants in the land-booking procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you again very much for your word. This Land Book Act is also received by a number of critics from the professional public, and we also reject this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party at this stage of the procedure. The shortcomings of this text of the law were pointed out by the very reasoned Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Real Estate Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, in this law there are two solutions or two amendments that we support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and this is in particular the introduction of land book informationisation and the introduction of a proper procedure in the event of the loss of the original documents. However, there are so many shortcomings in this law that in such a form it cannot be acceptable to our parliamentary group. We are particularly disturbed by the fact that two groups are now privileged again, and these are notaries and lawyers, thereby allowing for additional profits – estimated at between 10 and 30 million euros a year. And for part of that amount, the state budget will certainly be cut short. The further problem we see is that all official land registers on land matters should be kept with notaries and lawyers. This means, in other words, the privatisation of the land book. Today, as we know, the court has all this paperwork. And this will certainly be payable, and this payment will be made at the expense of users, citizens and citizens, and will be served by a lawyer and notaries, and it also raises the question whether storing such important documents over a multi-year or ten-year period with legal persons or lawyers and notaries is safe enough. We also have legitimate concerns that the process or time of all these changes will be extended, even though the Ministry states in its explanation that this process will be shorter, but given the 300 000 land-book applications and the assessment that these expected persons who will do so – notaries and lawyers – will be around 300, we rightly ask ourselves whether these procedures will be longer. As we have repeatedly warned, we believe that by introducing this law the price for all these services will be significantly higher for our users, especially natural persons, small businesses. Just as an example, the real estate agency, which has now paid for a change of €20 to €50, is expected to increase to €200 to €300 at a new price. This means that this amount is almost ten times higher. We will, of course, table the appropriate amendments. If these amendments are taken into account and the Minister of the Council's comments are taken into account, the Council of Justice also has comments on this, of course we will consider possible support for further consideration. As I mentioned, we reject this procedure at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! At the outset, I must make it clear that, in our Group of Members, we believe that the most important novelty brought by the new Land Book Act is to inform all processes related to the decision-making on the registration of collections of land-books, and we support that. In our opinion, however, this should be the only thing that should remain. It has really been a time for us to introduce this and to get ahead, for example, of neighbouring countries. I would like to give Austria an example, because the land book is what we actually got, and, for example, in the framework of the former Austro-Hungarian Republic. That was the case, and we were behind for a decade. Informational illiterate citizens are becoming less and can also find the most urgent expertise in the so-called e-regulation of administrative and legal matters. That is why we agree with the proposal here and in this context. Interestingly, for example, they retained double investment in Austria, both in writing and in digital form. We ask in what and why this decision in a neighbouring country is in such a way or whether sufficient security is in fact ensured only in digital form. Here we want the proposer to consider this further. It would certainly be useful to consider the safety and importance of such documents also on such a way. We agree with the Ministry of Justice's argument that the electronic submission of proposals will allow citizens to carry out this matter more quickly than ever. According to the Ministry, this now lasts more than a month, in different environments. The Minister, however, predicts a maximum of 4 days' reduction. We'll be absolutely happy about that. In principle, we also agree with the argument that a new regime will be proposed whereby only lawyers, notaries, state lawyers will be able to bring court proposals to court, and that the parallel introduction of a 24-hour court procedure in these matters will bring greater legal certainty. However, we doubt and are not convinced that individuals who, without notaries and lawyers themselves, are so grave a threat to legal certainty that the matter is closed here. Let me just list some. It is certain that the municipalities know this and have so far done so largely on their own and have avoided costs, including social work centres and many other state authorities. Information from the Ministry that 40% of the applications are incomplete and are therefore rejected in court. they do not yet prove that these rejected proposals were submitted only by the citizens, the congregations or those I mentioned earlier or that there were no such applications as may have been made by notaries. In particular, we have doubts about this new regime, as it is not a matter of substantive substantive decision-making or of any other serious reason which would require a mandatory legal representation introduced by the amendment of the law. This is also pointed out by the Ombudsman, who considers that the legislator for other people does not provide for more important legal procedures to be represented solely and solely by professional plenipotentiaries, in this case alone, and this seems to us to be an absolute overly harsh provision. The need to hire a notary or a lawyer in order to submit land-book proposals will certainly lead to the monopolisation of the application of land-book proposals. The Minister's claim that people will pay less for this service than they have paid so far is not convincing and has not convinced us. This should be true only for those who have already made proposals through notaries, for those who have made these proposals themselves, and certainly this cost has not been lower or will not remain the same, so far they have not had any costs. The interiors charged EUR 37 to 92 at the current rate for this service. The Minister predicts that he will achieve a reduction in these notary and legal tariffs, but these are only forecasts. Conversations with notaries have shown that they believe that for such money, they will simply not be able to perform all services, in particular all the powers they will be given in relation to the storage. In other words, there is no guarantee that notaries and lawyers who will gain a monopoly on land matters after the adoption of the law will indeed agree to the tariffs currently being discussed. We strongly doubt that, and we have arguments for that. The more expensive service argument is thus in the air. Undoubtedly, however, after the adoption of this amendment to the Land Book Act, those who know how to make land proposals themselves will be subject to higher costs, which will have to be deducted from notaries and lawyers. According to some estimates, this will mean between 10 million and 30 million higher costs, which are likely to be known in the investor's pocket in the final stage, especially citizens and citizens and many state and municipal institutions. For all this, we have proposed a three-year transitional period in the parliamentary group, during which an individual could make his own proposals in court. During this period, it will indeed be demonstrated what the cost of investing for an individual will be, whether they will be indeed lower than is claimed, or higher than many institutions and individuals who have warned of this in the drafting phase of the law. It is our view that it is necessary to allow the possibility of submitting a proposal to all those who are technically capable of making such proposals themselves by electronic means, not only to notaries or lawyers. In particular, entities which do not have the capacity to do so should be allowed to submit a landscaping proposal directly to a designated district court or through an authority. Doubts in the Group Indeed also arise in the abolition of the exclusive local jurisdiction of the District Courts to decide on proposals for property in the area of the District Court. We believe that a dangerous experiment is a solution brought by law. The experiment is because similar solutions do not exist in our neighboring Austria, which is often taken as an example. In Austria, for example, the land book also remained after the digitisation of the public register administered by the court. General land books are kept in district courts. With us, matters will no longer be governed by local jurisdiction in the district court, where property or land lie, but by which notary the matter will be settled. And this can mean that proposals will be centrally submitted and then resolved throughout Slovenia. For example, in Montenegro they will resolve the proposal for real estate in Murska Sobota, if, of course, the client is looking for a notary or legal service there.As a result, communication will be difficult or for any minor error or ambiguity will be issued by a rejection decision, and a new matter will thus be obtained by a referee in Radovljica, who will be able to understand it again completely differently. We are also in doubt within the Group of Members regarding the new 142th Article, which brings the preservation of the original documents to the notary, while so far it has been the jurisdiction of the courts. Although we have reached a three-year transitional period, after the consultations we have had in recent days, we believe that only a transitional period is probably not enough, but a re-examination of whether this is a truly meaningful solution. Given the current number of occupied Notary cities, 93 of them and 44 of the District Courts, the issue of legal transport security is being raised, as the proposed regime would only increase the dispersion of the retention of documents. We wonder what security will be like, what transparency will be like, because this is an experiment that we find difficult to judge today when it comes to its application. As a result, the costs of the procedure will also be increased and the notary tariff for this work will be increased. To do this enthusiastically, of course, we strongly doubt. I said that in the Group of Members, we really support part of the law, or those changes that say that we do things electronically, that the land book is being computerised, and that we may also be asking questions about the enforcement of double investment and storage. However, we do not agree with the other solutions proposed by the proposer. Today, we will support the marriage at first reading. We expect that our arguments will be examined, that the proposer will also properly re-verify them, that the concerns we have will be examined and implemented into changes to the law. The final support for the law will depend in particular on how many of these changes we will require today will be included in the form of amendments to any amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much again for your word. Have a nice hello to you all again! At the beginning of the mandate, the Government proposed to postpone the deadline for the application of those new rules of the Land Book Act relating to the submission of electronic land-book proposals and the introduction of general local jurisdiction from 1 May 2009 to 1 May 2011. We are pleased that the proposal is before us, because we are aware that solutions, the submission of electronic proposals and the elimination of local decision-making powers on land-book proposals are inseparably linked and that these changes require their time. In the SLS Group, we believe that the introduction of electronic investment and free computer output from the land book is a most welcome novelty. The novelty also has a negative sign due mainly to the monopolisation of the simplest part of the land book procedure, namely the submission of a land book proposal. The current Land Book Act provides that the Land Book Proposals can be proposed in a classic form by all and that only notaries and lawyers can do so in electronic form. Courts are now responsible for the preservation of the original documents, and only notaries would take care of the new law, which would also charge the service of converting the ordinary document into electronic. While the applicant claims that the result of the novelty will be favourable for the final user. However, in our view, this will not be the case in particular for those users who have prepared land-book proposals themselves. The amendment of the law is certainly not conducive to the Slovenian municipalities. In many municipalities, land-book proposals are now being prepared and invested on their own and the new proposal will only generate additional costs for the municipalities. An interesting attitude toward the congregations is also shown by the fact that the state has made sure that the State’s proposals can be made by the State’s defence authorities and that the municipalities should hire notaries or lawyers. The proposal that e-proposals be made by lawyers and notaries is also strongly opposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The Chamber argues that this will increase the costs for the economy, which we also agree with in the SLS Group, and we expect the proposed amendment to come up with a better proposal that will not contain such reckless solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the amendment of the Land Book Act. The proposed amendments to the Land Book Act are needed and welcome from our point of view. This is certainly the case in the work relating to new solutions to the submission of electronic land-book proposals, as we are convinced that the solutions follow thus a measure to increase the efficiency of the courts in these proceedings, to accelerate the resolution of judicial backlogs and thus to shorten the duration of these proceedings. Members of DeSUS' optimisation, information and implementation of processes in judicial institutions and between judicial institutions and citizens, businesses and other state institutions, using information and communication technology, whose main aim is to increase the effectiveness of the functioning of judicial institutions, we certainly support. However, the question is whether the concrete solutions contained in the draft law also follow the principle of a more friendly customer and of a more cost-effective approach or implementation of these procedures. According to the proposal, only notaries, lawyers and state lawyers are supposed to make electronic submissions on land-book proposals and other applications. It is therefore a matter of introducing so-called compulsory qualified investors, unlike now existing arrangements, when each person is free and voluntary to decide whether to invest in writing on his own or under the authority. This proposal advocates simplifying procedures, increasing legal certainty, faster and more rational procedures and reducing costs, not only by the authorities, but also by all of us who can be investors after the legal provisions currently in force. However, do they in fact stand the claim of the competent ministry that it will not be more expensive after a new entry for citizens? The calculations show that this is certainly true for the registration of property of higher values. What about the registration of property of minor values, the share of which is among the higher? The calculations show exactly the opposite. The entry of property of minor values, such as one field, will surely be more expensive for an individual from a cost perspective. Thus, the user will strike three times: as a taxpayer, as a user, and through a court fee. This certainly, regardless of whether the client's procedure will be more expensive for just a few euros, is not a good journey, even at a time when it should not be anxious for additional burdens on people. The mandatory identification of qualified investors is also problematic for local communities, which are now taking care of these proposals themselves. Let me conclude, Members of the DeSUS support in principle the information process of the Land Book, which certainly follows the objectives to which it is intended. However, we are skeptical about the proposaler's claim that such an introduction does not constitute an increase in costs for customers. Nevertheless, we estimate that the text is a good road map for further consideration and that we will vote accordingly. We hope, however, that during the course of the process, the cases will also be clarified on the basis of concrete calculations and the identified deficiencies in recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be moved by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u162	Your Honor! In 2007 the Law on Supplements to the Land Book Act was adopted, which established several new solutions for decision-making on land book proposals. The current Land Book Act foresees that proposals in classical form can be proposed by all. According to the new report, only notaries and lawyers could do this in electronic form. The applicant explains that the data on the real estate holder was entered only once, allowing the procedure to be rationalised, but that the proposed amendment no longer required the land book deposit, allowing for easier verification with the land cadastral and cadastral conditions and a more transparent land book management system. In the Real Law, the new Article 13a of the Law on the Land Book defines concepts in relation to the legal status of the property laid down by the rules and the registration of rights and the legal remedies necessary for the entry into the Land Book. The ownership right is a fundamental legal right which defines and enters directly into real estate as provided for in Article 13a of the Land Book Act. However, in the same Article 6, paragraph 6 explains the situation of the registration of immovable property, which is not directly registered, which is in some ways unreasonable, but probably sufficiently clear for lawyers. In order to fully inform all procedures for the implementation and decision-making of entries, the applicant has laid down completely new rules. The electronic submission of land-book proposals and other applications will be introduced and will be made by notaries, lawyers or lawyers who will also be the only legal representatives. It is, as the applicant points out, to modernise and rationalise the conduct of court proceedings in land-book matters. As noted in the proposal, all matters shall be submitted in an electronic copy certified by the notary as a person with public authority by electronic signature. It is envisaged that, on the basis of such operations, the costs and costs of service will also be reduced. In accordance with the new Article 125c, written contributions from participants will be accepted by one central depository. Of course, this is not about the roles that go through authorised representatives. In the new 125.d article, land-booking matters will be handled as electronic records. The applicant estimates that the novelty brings a cheaper and faster entry, which will be very convenient for the final user. The registration of ownership rights should be cheaper for the owner, whether he does it himself or via a notary. Electronics will be free of charge for natural and legal persons and business will be much faster. Only notaries and lawyers will perform the services after the transition period. It is clearly a matter of monopolizing lawyers and notaries, which is why the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Ombudsman disagrees, which justifies his position that the law is not based on reasonable and justified reasons. The law does not solve the problem of monopolisation and bottlenecks and does not contain the effects of new economic rules. The preparation excluded a profession that offered improvements that would allow faster integration into the space, which is certainly a topic and a problem that is also addressed on the committees. It is therefore necessary to offer solutions that will be optimal for rapid and effective integration into space. The electronicisation of the land book is certainly an acquisition, but some uncertainties still need to be addressed and corrected. There is no need to rush because the previous marriage is not so bad that it should be changed immediately. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposed amendment is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Milah Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The objectives pursued by the amendments to the Land Book Act are: to accelerate and simplify the registration process itself in the Land Book, to increase the legal certainty of individuals in legal transactions with real estate, to take into account the professional aspect, to enforce solutions for the party which, at greater legal certainty, will mean more expensive services to the parties, to reduce and achieve a single decision-making time in land-book matters, regardless of the place or location of the property, to comprehensively inform all processes and to introduce a computerised collection of documents and to ensure greater accessibility of the land book, namely to obtain a regular or historical copy from the land book via the e-earthland book website. In preparing the novelty, the applicant took the cost aspect primarily into account. At the same time with the Land Book Act, there is also an amendment to the Law on Judicial Fees, which we have already dealt with today, which strongly sets out the existing system of judicial fees in land-booking proceedings. The Ministry of Justice is 15. 9. In 2010, the Notary Chamber sent an opinion on a proposal to amend the notary tariff, which reduces the notary tariff for the submission of the Land Book Proposal in general. In particular, there has been a decrease in the submission of a land-book proposal for title books, mainly in the case of lower value. If the value of the property is less than 1,000 euros, the notary is obliged to submit an electronic proposal for a client's land book even free of charge. The tariff number 18 has also changed, which provides for the storage of private documents, which will also be free of charge for the customer. After the calculation has been made in the case of a transfer of ownership rights, i.e. the title of the property right from the old owner to the new owner, the total costs for the client will not be increased, but will even be reduced, and the customer will receive a qualified person, notary, which will be reflected in a smaller number of incomplete applications and a shorter time to decide on the registration of the right for the client. The current notary tariff for the submission of the land-book proposal is based on the value of the item, which is two-stage, up to EUR 137 000 700 would amount to EUR 37 or EUR 44. Above the value of €137,000, it would be €32 and €110. The proposed notary tariff adds new rates and thereby reduces the notary tariff while adding a new two-step notary fee scale in the event that the notary submits a landscaping proposal to include ownership rights in the order of the proposal. This further reduces the notary tariff. A number of notary proposals to submit a land book proposal for the incorporation of ownership rights in the order of the proposal are: from thousands to 3,000 euros worth €5, from 3,000 to 11 thousand €10, from 11 thousand to 140 thousand €37, from 140 thousand to 250 thousand €60 and over 250 thousand €92. However, for the submission of all other land-book proposals, the Notary Fee scale changes by adding a new intermediate rate of notary property charges of between €140,000 and €250 000, which is €60 and €72. The current notary tariff for this range is €92 or the difference is €32. The notary fee of the composition and submission of the Land Book Proposal also includes the initial conversion of the physical document into electronic form and, consequently, its verification that the converted document is identical to the original, and the physical storage of the original of the private document in the notary under the rules of the Notary Storage. Therefore, the Notary will not be entitled to any additional compensation for the storage of the private document, which is the basis of the Land Book Proposal. Since we believe that the proposal for a user law allows easier and cheaper access to services related to the Land Book, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the bill's proposal that it is suitable for further consideration, in the hope that all questions or dilemmas or uncertainties relating to the land book and the law will be clarified in the further process of adopting the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Franz Puksich. [[He's not here either.]] Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In principle, I support the proposal for a marriage novel, but I wonder whether the whole process of writing into the land book will actually be cheaper, for the property of minor values. Then I also wonder whether the procedure will actually be simplified and therefore shorter. There's no clear answer here either. I also believe that the preservation of the documents needs to be reconsidered. So far, this storage has been entrusted to the court, for which the court has been trained and does not represent some of the risks that notary storage poses. It cannot be overlooked that such documents also represent a national legal heritage and that the scattered preservation of these documents would pose a certain risk or at least impreciseness. In my view, however, the whole matter is also somewhat controversial in terms of compliance with the Constitution. Is it therefore acceptable to reinvigorate the profession for these proceedings only to notaries and lawyers? There is no clear answer as to why these procedures could not be carried out by other entities that are qualified and registered for such an activity. There are some other issues that show that in the next process of adopting the law or the novel, I am in principle in favour of the marriage novelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u167	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Colleague Anton Kolarič and colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler shared our views and comments. This is not a matter of any concern as to the basic objective of regulating the land book, this is information, faster procedures, greater legal certainty. At the same time, we are asked, including on the basis of public opinion, a few questions, whether all the objectives, and in particular all the ways to achieve these goals, are truly well thought out. I would complement my two colleagues, not so much in substance, rather with the wish that Mr Škrlec might be able to give us today, but that the representatives of the Government would really give us the answers to these questions with the utmost care, because the comments that have been made today simply cannot be addressed with the right hand, that it is a variety of interests and lobbies that want only their own benefit, but not a solution that would be good for the country. On these issues that have been raised, the issue of the preservation of land-books in notaries is certainly asked me as one of the questions. For example, until now, the question has never been asked whether the security of the documents in the courts has been properly regulated or not. Now this issue could also be raised when the performance of the notary function is transferred from one notary to another, which would not actually be possible until the issue of the preservation of documents and their protection is resolved in a consistent manner, I have not found it. The question is whether the relationship between notaries, lawyers, the Land Book or the Court of First Instance is properly regulated. With regard to one question already raised by colleague Kolarič, this is that notaries must also find that the Land Book proposal prepared by the parties, to say that it is unacceptable and that the entry cannot be completed because there are no relevant documents or anything else that is not regulated, and nevertheless, despite the notary record that they have found and warned the party, they must submit it. The question is why. I'm sure the government has good reasons for that, but I haven't heard them before, and I can't tell them on my own. It also raises the question of the relationship between notaries, court and lawyers, as regards the obligation that the application made by the lawyer should come into the land book and then return to the notary who must scan and resubmit the documents. There are some such questions that we think should be considered. Of course, Mr Skrlec also knows about our fundamental issue, on which I must say that the Government has made an effort. In fact, the warning that this would not result in monopolization, some corrections in this direction have been made. Or enough, we'll evaluate it together. And whether or not this will be more expensive for the customers, which has been assured that it will not. I'm expecting a really quiet conversation. Few marriages are also in the public and in associations, such as congregations, the Council of State, notaries, although notaries, one would expect them to say more than they have said and could, but the Chamber of Commerce and others, which has not yet been decided by the Council of Justice, and we expect it. It seems to us that the Government has decided that even if we adopt the law today, it is not immediately because things need to be prepared, matured for direct execution, but we will wait for a few years to be able to wait even a month for these issues to be clarified, not to think that the date of adoption is more important than the quality of its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u169	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. This law or this bill is also one of those proposals that impose a number of concerns and also dilemmas on us. If we just read the addresses of some of our officers about this law, they can give us much to think about or tell us much. Land accounting procedures at a new price, a country full of private pockets, a narrow throat and money in the pockets of notaries, are forecasted to be a monopoly of notaries and lawyers. I must say, there is a lot of truth in the explanations of these titles. Today, too, many of the coalition's fellow Members have raised concerns about these solutions. I also have the view that a good part of this law or this proposal is in the informationisation of land-booking procedures, this is absolutely necessary and is in the interest of simplifying these procedures. And perhaps, according to the minister’s explanation, that this law brings some savings, some uneducated may feel that they will actually save something in one pocket. But the problem is that from the other pocket much more pulls the country out. And then this will flow into the pockets of notaries and lawyers. Therefore, once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Sir, if you can give me a concrete answer here to the question that will probably be most interesting for many of our users of these services. And according to the data I have, 80% of all these claims are low-value claims. It means that those fees are about 12 to 20 euros. This amount would, according to a new one, at least as recorded in the calculations as well as in these texts, be uniform to EUR 100. At the same time, you are suggesting that savings will be made in the event that these properties will be worth a few hundred thousand euros and the amount of these fees will also be 100 euros. It used to be 5,000 and now it's going to be 100 euros. This analogy is not the most understandable one, but I don't think it's the most correct one. Someone who has real estate worth a few hundred thousand euros will probably pay that amount a few thousand euros more easily than someone who will buy thousands of euros in real estate. We have received quite a few comments on this proposal. The Council of Justice has concerns, so that even here this surprise is present for me, then the Municipality of Ljubljana also expresses concerns or proposes some additional solutions, then the Community of Municipalities. I therefore ask myself why such procedures should not also be carried out by local communities that are qualified to do so. Why are notorators and lawyers privileged here again? It is known that in this mandate, Minister Zalar has tried to bring exactly the notaries or lawyers and judges into a privileged position from the very beginning by amending the law on legal tariffs, by raising judicial salaries. But now there's actually something incomprehensible again. And why not extend this to those who are qualified to do so. Last but not least, we are wondering why we should not also introduce in the courts, in electronic form, officials who are employed in the courts. I'm sure a lot of people have resources, trained people to do that kind of work. Last but not least, according to these estimates announced by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, 10 to 30 million money will now be poured into the pockets of notaries or lawyers. Why shouldn't part of this money go to the budget through the work of the judicial officials? Why give a chance and a monopoly to notaries and lawyers? This is a fundamental question that I would like to answer if you know how to answer today. And the next thought is the vault. However, this law states that this storage should be carried out in accordance with the rules of the other notary documents. However, I am concerned that there is only too little set in terms of how security will be ensured. Because these documents really represent some value or some evidence, not just one year from now, it can be 10, 20 years from now. Where do you know how long, how long, how long, how long, will he keep these documents? Whether it requires some fire safety or some kind of security prior to the theft of these documents. If, for example, military warehouses come to a place of arms or anything, this would not happen in notaries, because there could be documents here that would have invaluable value for a number of individuals or even a company if it allowed such a place to occur. So I think it would be very irresponsible to go over the preservation of these documents to the notaries. We must maintain that these are still performed exclusively in the courts. As I said, I will not support this proposal alone, not for further consideration anymore, so also the concerns of the coalition Members, who otherwise say they will support in the hope that comments will be taken into account - it is true that hope dies last, but I think that is too little. Here it is necessary to require that real preparers prepare solutions that will bring this law to a level that will be acceptable, that it can be implemented primarily, and that it will not be deprived again, as usual, of our taxpayer, when it will have to pay for these services from his pocket significantly more expensive, especially for paying for notaries and lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u171	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Sylven Tiny. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franco Yuri. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[She's not either.]] Mr. Anton Kolarich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u172	As I said in the introduction, the Social Democrats will support the bill. I hope that this information will only achieve that the land book will be both public and accessible and that the data contained therein will be credible. But I'd only have one brief observation. Certain debaters constantly point to the monopoly of notaries, lawyers and so on. I'd just take a little bit to protect them, 'cause that's professional work. And if we're sick, we probably go to a doctor, if we need legal aid, we probably go to those who are qualified to do it, and we don't do it, or we don't do it alone very rarely. I think we should slowly move on to each other's professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u173	I give my word to the proposer or to the government. Mr. Boštjan Škrlec, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that the debate has opened up a number of questions to which we want to answer, as we ourselves find, on the basis of the newspaper articles you mentioned, Mr Member, that in the event of a new regulation of the Land Book Act and the fees or fees associated with this, there is a significant degree of misunderstanding. Let me begin with a very short description to make it clear to all those accompanying this meeting how the land-booking procedure is taking place and what the consequences of the individual stages of this procedure are. Land and land transactions were subject to a principle which is a specific principle for the real estate market, which is the principle of the constitutionality of the entry into the land book. What does that mean? This means that it is different from buying a car or any other item, otherwise by signing a contract and signing a signature a person does not yet become owner of the land or other property. That's a very important difference. It is essential that the owner becomes the owner of the property only when the property is legally registered in the land book. Until then, he is merely a beneficiary and bears some benefit from this bond ratio, but he is not yet the owner in a real sense. This is important because the real estate acquisition process, such as by purchasing, as the most typical way of acquiring real estate, when deducting inheritances, takes place in such a way that the contract is first signed, then this contract shall be evaluated at the competent tax office or with the tax authority, where the tax is also levied, in accordance with the rules governing real estate traffic. Then the customers come to the notary where the notary checks the seller's signature. Once this signature has been verified, the Charter is now ready for that crucial phase, which is for the registration process in the Land Book. This procedure shall, however, begin with a proposal for entry into the Land Book. And these people who have gone all this way are, of course, now in the stage where, after the current regulation, they can sit at the table and write a land policy proposal, as the legislation provides, and let me say that this proposal is very detailed, very formally determined that there is no stagnation, even very detailed definition, in the case of land-book referencers facing more than 200,000 entries per year. This also makes it difficult for those who are actually slightly more skilled to fill out all these details in the way that is required. And when such a proposal is sent to court, very often the court sends it back with a request for supplement. When notaries make land-book proposals, we are taught by the experience that more than 90 or 80 % of the applications submitted by notaries, for example at the District Court in Ljubljana, are complete, if I am not mistaken. This means that it is the applicants who have the practice of making these proposals and whose proposals are generally complete. Of course, sometimes there are cases when they are not, but there are still few cases of neglect. The proposal for amendments to the Land Book Act at this stage is of crucial novelty. The key novelty is that, from the moment this arrangement is adopted, the main evidentiary weight will no longer have a physical document, a physical contract between the two parties certified with a notary signature, but the main weight and main evidentiary value will be obtained by the so-called electronic originator. However, the electronic original means that the notary will be, when this document, which today has just been certified by the signature and confirmed that the seller is indeed selling and that it is this person who stands before the notary, who will scan this document and by means of his electronic signature confirm that it is a "scan", so the electronic version is the same as what is physically before it in paper form. From that point forward, an electronic scanned original is important for the legal business and for the legal procedure for the registration of property rights. And why the notaries and lawyers have to do this, not just someone or anyone. It is because the entry point of this document is in the electronic system. Therefore, it is crucial that at this entry point or at this entry stage the person who enters this checks for the reality of this data and guarantees the reality of this data by his electronic signature, and that is notary. That's not what lawyers are gonna do. Lawyers will be able to submit Land Book proposals and the physical introduction of the Charter into the electronic database will be done by notaries, even if the lawyer will be an investor of the Land Book Proposal. So it's important, I'm saying this because I'm going to talk about the storage below. By becoming an electronic document, the notary will send this document to the Land Book Court by pressing the button. It is important, however, that the progress of time between the validation phase and the application phase of the Land Book Proposal will be extremely short, or that this will be done at the same time at the same time. This is important because, in practice, things are going a little differently today. If we return to the phase that I described earlier when the notary certifies the signature, the parties have the opportunity to submit a land-book proposal on paper. They do this on their own, whether they go to their lawyer, or the land broker does it for them, or they do it for the notary, but it is important that always and generally until this stage, until they draw up a proposal and send it to the court, takes some time. Their activity depends on whether it is one day or two days, but almost always it must be more than one day, unless physically carried to the court where the property is located. This time is very important because at this time it is possible to experience various abuses. And there have been such abuses. At this point, the land register is still such that owner A, although he has already bought the property B, but because he is not yet registered in the land book, of course he is not yet the owner. And that gives A an opportunity if he's maliciously intent on reselling this property to another buyer who's also not the owner, or the first one is not the owner, and if this other buyer is faster than the first one, he can book himself before the first one. I know this sounds a little complicated, but in practice, such cases have been relatively significant. And that's what's the biggest danger in real estate business. In fact, the course between the time when a business is concluded and the time when this transaction is in an appropriate form by transfer of property manifests itself in the land book. The new system will cut this time, as I said, substantially. From the moment of verification, it will practically be necessary only to scan the notary — and the parties have been there all the time — this charter, this contract and the electronic transmission of this electronic book proposal, together with the electronic attachment of the scanned document, has in fact taken note of the time that this application came before the court. This is essential because from the moment the application reaches the court, filling will take place, meaning that someone who later comes with a new proposal can no longer outrun the one who was filed before or after the time before or before the court. The earth’s book is characterized by two specifics. The first is, as I said, the constitutionality of the file, which means that property rights come with a record. The second is the time of business or order after the deposits have been submitted. Those who are first shall be treated first, whether they are later completed or not. And that's how buyers protect their rights. With the introduction of electronic commerce, as I said, this time will be substantially reduced. The book proposals themselves will be significantly better. That's what the statistics show. Already today, more than 95 % of all documents on the basis of which property rights are entered in the land book, or otherwise involved in the notary procedure. Thus, 95 % of all entries are based on notary documents, such as such or otherwise. And this proposal basically means that once the client has reached the notary, which is now 95 % of the cases are already coming up, there will be no need to go anywhere else. That's where the process will be concluded. The scan will be done with the notary, the electronic proposal will be submitted. And at this stage, it is essential that this customer service will not be more expensive. That's what we talked about today. We had in mind that these tables, which I have today with me unfortunately only in paper form, will also be presented to you in a power point, on the screen, but unfortunately this is not going to work because this table is Excell and not Powerpoint, and it is also too large to get it on this screen. However, this table is published on the website of the Ministry of Justice, so I call on everyone and I invite you to see it there as well. On this page there are property values in white columns; in the green column there is the price of the service under today’s applicable court fee and notary rate; in the blue column there is the price under the proposed court fee, i.e. under the law on judicial fees as proposed in the previous item of the agenda, and in accordance with the amended notary tariff under the procedure of adoption. And if you look at these columns, you'll see for every property of thousands, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, we're essentially raising thousands of euros. For each property a calculation is made of how much it will cost today and after the new. And for all these properties, we can figure out that it's lower amounts. If we look at the amount, let's start with the largest, we'll eventually stop at the lowest you've ever asked about. The amount of 60 million, today if a natural person invests on its own, it costs EUR 5 000 643. Tomorrow, if the client submits this to the notary, it will cost 5 thousand 192 euros. This means that the difference in the absolute amount, if invested alone or if invested in a notary, is EUR 560 in favour of the customer. If we look at a little bit more realistic, a little bit lower amounts, like 800,000 euros. Today, if you make such a proposal yourself, this will amount to €471, tomorrow, if I may use that word, this will be €442. The difference is 138 euros. At 700 000 euros the amount of these prices today is 435,60, tomorrow it will be 392,80, which means 152 euros less. And let's say another 500,000, that's all, I know, high amounts, today is 363.60, tomorrow will be 352,80, the difference is 120 euros. And now we're going down, 200 thousand euros today is 255,60, tomorrow 234,80, the difference is 130, pardon 40 euros. I think I'm reading it wrong. The amount of $60,000, let's say today is this amount of total service if the customer does it alone, 166.80 tomorrow will be 148.80. And we're going to smaller amounts, 11 thousand euros, that's already quite a lot, today is 65 euros and 40 cents, tomorrow will be 38 euros 80 cents. If 2 000 euros is the value of real estate, today is 22.20 tomorrow will be 22.00, which means 20 cents cheaper. What I said at the outset is that at the sums of up to 1,000 euros, where there is no court fee, today is 15 and tomorrow is 16 euros. Here is the difference of one euro to the damage of a customer. Why court fees are reduced, and we have not talked much about this at the previous point, but this needs to be said. The courts will, by obtaining electronic versions of proposals and electronic versions of originals, be significantly burdened by the physical work, processing, paper documents and the incorporation of these documents or data into the information system and the issuance of decisions. The experience we have from the Court Registry and also from the Central Enforcement Department on the basis of a credible charter both operate in a similar manner when one central unit in a country where data is sent electronically from different courts across the country to this central unit shows that a significantly smaller number of people are needed to control electronic data processing throughout the country. For the Land Book, the specificity is that this central unit, which will receive data or land-book proposals, will automatically assign specific cases to the least burdened reference after the current meeting of individual referees in individual courts. This means that in the first months of the launch of this new system, when it is adopted, the large courts facing large backlogs in the field of the land book will in fact only do old things, will not receive new ones. The new courts, which are less burdened, will therefore be given a time to decide in all land-booking matters, whether they are invested in Ljubljana for land in Ljubljana or for land, I do not know, in Zgornje Kašelj or Brežica, which is less burdened, the same, and the burden of the courts will be the same. This means that all citizens in the Republic of Slovenia will receive a service that will be equally fast for all, regardless of where the property is located, to which the court actually belongs. Another important change made by the electronic central record, or by full e-commerce, is that the transparency of these data will be significantly increased. Today, it is as if we are talking about keeping the documents for property in a district court on which the property lies. If we have property in the District Court, for example, in Brežice, the buyer from Gorenjska who wants to buy this property will have to go to Brežice physically if he wants to see the documents concerning this property. From now on, if this proposed solution is adopted, this means that we have one central electronic database in which it is possible to access from anywhere and see any documents that are not visible today. Which means that tomorrow this customer from Gorenjska will simply go to the computer and check those documents that he wants to see in the collection of documents, of course in electronic form, which, as I said in the beginning, is certified by the electronic signature of the notary that he fully corresponds to the original. If I go back to the storage room a little longer. Notary storage is due to the fact that a new electronic source is being introduced. As I said, only an electronic document is important for legal traffic and decision-making in land-booking procedures from the moment the electronic version of the paper document is certified. This electronic document is the basis for the decision. This electronic document is an annex to this Land Book Proposal and this electronic document is then visible to all participants in this central part. Of course, the physical paper is kept by the one who submits it, or, if he makes a landscaping proposal, by the lawyer, he is obliged to send it to the notary who then scans and feeds it. That's why it's always kept by notaries, not lawyers. The interiors have a special position according to our constitution. They perform public service in the public interest. Their responsibility is different from that of lawyers, and their mission is different. They work for the benefit of all parties who come to them and must protect the interests of all fears equally and must operate in the public interest. As a result, this function of the preservation of landscaping documents, after the documents have been converted into electronic originals, is logical in itself. However, there is a need for fear that the documents will be lost and that they will no longer be attainable, as they are today, to say something else. The existing regulation of the land book allows something that is not always well known in the public, but it does exist and is very important. In view of the fact that, under the jurisdiction of the Land Book Procedure, it is possible to request this Charter from the Court and the originals to collect it out. So if we are going to do a business today where the buyer or seller does not want the original document to be kept before the court, they will come to the court after the legal proceedings have been concluded and, on the basis of a provision specifically laid down in the Land Book Act, require the original of the document to be handed down to them, the court will make a certified copy, the certified copy will remain in the custody of the court, the original will be taken away by the client. There are no significant changes in the fact that notaries take over the physical preservation of these documents. And the essential risk, which is often spoken of in public, is not, in fact, for two reasons, as I have already said. The first is that it is a meroded and substantively binding electronic document and no longer a paper document. However, the second point is, of course, that there is still a possibility today for customers to pick their originals from the courts if they consider it appropriate for such or other reasons. With regard to the retention of documents, it must also be said that the fact that notaries keep such documents is not new. According to today’s regulation, notaries keep the originals of notary records. The interiors also keep their wills in the original. And the fact that they are now also storing the documents, which, as I have said many times before, have been converted into an electronic version, and so effectively secured, cannot in itself constitute any special damage. This storage is not particularly payable either. This storage shall be charged in the fee charged by the notary for the composition of the land book proposal. As a result, there will be no special storage item when the land book proposal is submitted on its own. This is included in the price of the service which it is entitled to charge for the composition of the land-book proposal. This price is zero at land value to thousands of euros, and then the notary actually does the customer service free of charge. To make it necessary for customers to hire a lawyer or notary was the next of the concerns that we have heard today, but that is not true. It will not be necessary to hire a lawyer, but the client has to go to the notary today, as today’s arrangement is such. As public trust and public interest in real estate transport, the interiors are those who have to verify signatures. And as I have already said, land register entries for the transfer of property rights to more than 90% are made on the basis of documents either drawn up or certified by notaries. So people are already going to the notaries. The difference between what is today and what will happen tomorrow is that tomorrow they will finish everything with the Notary, but today they must come home from the Notary and do it alone or go to a lawyer. If that's what they do with the Notary today, it's more expensive. Today, tomorrow will be no more. In this respect, if the party invests on its own, this means that there are no intermediaries and that is why the logical service is cheaper. This logic would have survived if, as I have already said, there had been at the same time a change in the law on judicial fees and changes in the tariff of notaries. Due to the change in both, because it both decreases, it will also be cheaper for the future customer service, which he does today alone, tomorrow at the notary. It is necessary to know that if the party is working on the land-book proposal itself today, it is necessary to pay the land-book fee. And this fee is so reduced now in the new bill proposal that despite the introduction of the notary fee, the total amount will still be lower than I had previously read from this table, which is available on the Ministry of Justice's website. A similar document preservation system and a similar central unit system that actually processes this electronic data are introduced both by the law on the Court Registry when the e-VEM point was introduced, which is now subject to many praises, as well as in the case of the central enforcement department on the basis of the authentic instrument, which is even more revolutionary or is moving forward. This proposal, which is before you today, is essentially a logical continuation of the procedure for informing the judicial proceedings already in place. We seek to introduce an electronic file, the costs of service are being dropped, this is an important savings that the courts will receive. In fact, the courts will then communicate enforcement decisions electronically to lawyers and notaries or lawyers if they are investors, which means that there will be no more written correspondence by mail in these cases. What is the price of postal services, I probably don't need to stress in particular, and in 200 000 such procedures per year there is more than a large savings. I think that I have tried to respond mainly to all the main concerns that I have been able to understand. If I'm not on one, I'd be happy to do it next. Certainly this proposal, which you have before you, is the historical development of the informationisation of judicial proceedings. This development started with an electronic court registry, with an e-VEM, continues with insolvency, continues with the central department for the authentic instrument, well, it was before electronic insolvency. The earth’s book itself is largely automated to this day. The proposal for central competence is old, from 2008, when the Land Book Act, as we know it today, was adopted and then transposed this provision into the future for 2011. With our active cooperation with the Supreme Court, we have succeeded in reducing the time frame of the electronic introduction or providing technical conditions for these solutions. The same platform used for registrar procedures that are already underway and in practice do not cause problems and the same platform used for insolvency proceedings is also the basis for land book procedures, where the modules we are talking about today are simply upgrading this platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u175	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone wish to speak on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, to be heard? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 20th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 16.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u176	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act after a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, that is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 39. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 34. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 42. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 26. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 48. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 14, 42 and 48 of the amended bill, and I therefore ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this article. No, no, no. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formalised text of the Insurance Act. We're voting. Seventy Members and Members voted for 65 against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 6th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the proposal for a law on the transformation of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society and the investment policy of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Company, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. I must remind you, however, that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article under number 2 will become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. 69 Members and Members, 30 votes to 36. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 2. We're voting. 69 Members and Members, 39 to 27, voted. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 16. We're voting. 67 Members and Members voted for 38, 26. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendments. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the home labour body, the proposal became inconsistent. Therefore, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to the title of the Act, to Articles 8, 11 and 17, which you received on the bench. I give the floor to the Government's representative on the harmonisation amendment. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament! In the second reading of the draft law, amendments were adopted which deleted the provisions from the draft law which initially proposed that the Government transfer the rights and powers of DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society. In the light of the amendments adopted, internal inconsistencies have arisen in the individual provisions and in the title of the law itself. With the proposed four harmonisation amendments, we propose that this internal non-compliance be eliminated. With regard to the title itself, it is probably not necessary to explain in more detail. With regard to the proposal for an amendment to Article 8, the proposed harmonisation amendment harmonises the content between Articles 7 and 7 before Article 15 and 8 and clearly provides that the 20 million euro limit applies to each company individually, i.e. separately to Kad and separately to the Court. In Article 11, the new fifth paragraph aligns the law with Article 12, given that Kad has a 100 % ownership stake in the insurance company. An exception should be laid down in respect of this insurance undertaking. The last amendment refers to Article 17 where we amend or propose to amend the reference to the provision of this Act, namely the right reference to Article 7 of this Act and not to Article 15 as in the third reading text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much, ma'am. It's a crowbar. Do Members and Members want the word? I guess not. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Mag. Genius, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I will not support these amendments, not any other amendments, because the whole thing is market-based and the law is not good. It runs in the opposite direction from the coalition agreement, the property of the pensioners has become permanent property of the country, which will again be managed through the policy and its representatives. So far, the practice has been such that when it did not take into account the Government’s decisions regarding conduct, the Court did not operate transparently, it did not take into account all the tenderers when it came to selling, etc., without ever having a single supervisor’s hairguilt. Even the same are sitting inside the second term. And something like that will happen in the future. I no longer trust this policy every time because the practice has shown that the assets have been managed extremely poorly. Because of this law and these harmonisation amendments, which cannot change the true nature of things, I cannot support them. The problem is that the whole thing has come to light without ever being able to discuss it seriously in the coalition, in the opposite direction from the original agreement. It is interesting that this is not opposed by the parties who "fight" for pensioners and their fate, nor by the Alliance of Retired Associations. Probably because they have promised some positions in the administration or in the control council. But the problem is that each time the overseers worked primarily for their own benefit and very little for the benefit of those who were represented there. In a given past period, it was a country and a government whose conclusions were not respected and acted in their own way. And not just in this company, but in some other company. And because of this, I am very unhappy that it has come so far as to adopt a law that will permanently alienate the property owned by the pensioners into manipulation and further imprudent sale and management of politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u180	Anyone else want to discuss the harmonisation amendment? This is what the debate is about. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 39, for 22. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[Nobody.]] In your own name? Here you go, Mr. Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I will not vote against the law, nor will I support it. That's what you're saying. I'm gonna press the quorum. I don't think these things have been sufficiently debated at the starting points. I myself feel like Mr Žnidaršič that the pension and disability fund could successfully manage this property, unlike Kad and Sod, which has not proved to be transparent enough to deal with this extensive social property in terms of good management. The Pension and Disability Fund may not be capable of doing so, but with a certain reorganisation and also the introduction of management structures, it could actually hire good staff to deal with this property. Surely, however, this institution is most interested in rational and cost-effective treatment of this property. The second dilemma is of course the transfer of shares to the insurance undertaking : either the company or the insurance company. Here again is the great starting point of the dilemma. In Slovenia we introduce a new type of insurance companies, those which are majority owned by the country and those which are majority owned by the private sector. These two structures are, in fact, incomparable. And to talk about competition with an insurance company, which, in a sense, is financed indirectly and also directly at the source by the state, and with private ones, where private capital is invested, because it is immeasurable, there is no way to talk about loyal competition. Here we have made an additional confusion, an additional hybrid, in line with other modernisations of hybrid solutions that will weaken the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u182	Mr. Mag. The gendarmes, explanation of the vote on their own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u183	I cannot support this law because of what has already been said. In fact, it is from the assets of Kato that an insurance company is established, which will benefit only its operators. I must say that the reorganisation of Kad has already proposed a former administration in the previous mandate, by making as many companies as possible, then three, and a roof company to be four administrations, and four supervisory councils and so on, so that many of them can draw on this property, which is of equal value all the time, even though it could be properly fermented during this time. Establishing an insurance company is actually the worst thing. At the expense of pension reserves and this long-term pension protection, 152 million go to the insurance company at a certain risk that pensioners are not, of course, obliged to take. And it is unlikely that there will be large profits there, greater than management costs, which are not cheap. And because of this law, it is not possible to support it by deducting the fundamental reason that things are not at all as we agreed. And if the four presidents of the coalition don't respect themselves in terms of sticking to the agreements they signed, then that's their problem, and mine shouldn't be, because I'm giving something to what we agree on. Moreover, I consider what is signed to be irrevocable if we do not specifically agree on it. And we haven't really talked about this in particular, at least as regards the joint agreement at the start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u184	We are moving on to a decision on the bill. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 30. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Banking Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda this is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We will support this bill in our parliamentary group. We are of the opinion that anachronism must be eliminated when entrepreneurs, especiers, pay lower amounts on the counters than the commission. For example, if one espe pays 120% of the average wage, the contribution at least four rates is lower than the amount of the bank commission. The employer's contribution to employment amounts to 1.07 euros, and the rate paid for by the bank commission is 2.5 euros. The previous government, Mr Bayuk said in May 2008, has established a special group that is also expected to prepare certain changes and rationalisations for the area of payment of contributions. Unfortunately, nothing has happened in this area in two years, the Government has not proposed any concrete change, and the Group of Members has already proposed, for the third or fourth time, appropriate solutions to partially address the problems of espacies and small economies. Unfortunately, the government coalition, although it has done nothing, has not proposed anything, that the working group has not proposed anything, insists on preserving a solution that is inadequate. This must be said that the change or adoption of these solutions, which we propose, does not have any negative consequences for the state budget, because the economy will pay just as much of the contributions we have in these cash registers as it does in the event that it pays each bill separately. However, it is essential that the costs of commissions be reduced approximately 5 times, 6 times, 7 times, at an annual level of around EUR 20 million. The government and the coalition oppose this solution, there are no rational reasons, and by maintaining the solution, some help is also being made to cover up the rehabilitation of the banking system. All those who create do not receive any rationalisations, no ratings, and those who perform the service charge in some cases even 2.5 times more than the amount of the transfer. We are of the opinion that this law needs to be supported, it is meaningful to support it, and the Government can also give its proposals, additions, amendments and, in this way, complement the text accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u186	We vote, the vote is on. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 38. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Fees is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda – the first consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act is suitable for further consideration. Mr Grill has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We will not support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for further consideration, because we believe that there are too many unclear issues, even though the key idea of this law, which the Ministry itself is trying to place in public, is to inform these procedures, is correct. However, in so much confusion as the professional public also points out, the Council of Justice, the Chamber of Commerce opposes this proposal, the Community of Communities opposes this proposal, the City Assembly opposes this proposal, even in the debate itself, a number of concerns expressed by both opposition and coalition members. We believe that even in the further procedure of this law, it is not possible to elaborate so much that it is not essentially useful or even harmful for people who will have to use these land-booking procedures. The indications or calculations that the Secretary of State has made here today are not convincing enough to us, because, according to the data we have, there is a promise here, especially for those changes in small values that will become significantly more citizens and citizens than they have so far. I therefore appeal to the coalition Members once again, and we have also received such calls from the Chamber of Economics that we do not support such a law and allow the Ministry to amend and submit such a law, which will pursue those interests that will benefit all users of land-book procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u188	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 29. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Red Cross of Slovenia in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. In doing so, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda – this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Company Law for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a company law for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 19. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Transport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u189	We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda – this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia of the DARS obligation, d.d. from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 297,811 million. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the DARS, d.d. from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 297,811 million, is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of voice. In your own name? Please, mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I am sure that this law is not suitable for further consideration, as it would suggest that billions of highway construction funds have disappeared in advance, after we were able to read from newspapers how agreements have been made between contractors on individual sections. I must say that I am afraid that in the coming years this guarantee will certainly come to pass and that debts that Dars will not be able to repay alone will fall under the burden of taxpayers. Therefore, it would be advisable to look first at who and how he spends this money, only then, of course, to go into guarantees for new debts, for new burdens on our offspring. That's why I think this case is more than problematic and I can't give her any support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. In my own name. Excuse me? I already gave in my name, I asked first in my name. Please, Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. It can also be said in two minutes that the SDS Group will vote against it. I will also vote against it because billions of money is disappearing, as if Slovenian motorways are gilded, or that we can find out, because we are the majority of the beneficiaries of these Slovenian highways, that after a few months or after a bad year they interfere with some intervention measures, because the construction itself is inadequacy. 270 and a few million guarantees are, of course, an additional measure, the cinema is going in the right direction. Therefore, on the Committee on Transport, we have also found that it again interferes with the known facts, which we have been warned both professional and public that Slovenian motorways are too expensive to say dearly, although some deny it. The facts are different and those who know Slovenian motorways know that their quality is not what they should be according to the resources that the Republic of Slovenia invests in the final construction of motorways. They say that this is the final proposal of such a law that it will no longer exist in the future. If we did it a year ago, two or three, it would probably be of any use, and I do not believe that there will be any benefit in this. Slovenian highways are overpaid with taxpayers' money. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u193	I'm asking for applications in my own name. I see interest has grown. Anton Anderlich has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u194	In the course of the debate, we have heard many general and many inaccurate assessments, hints, instigations and similar to the account of a whole range of actors in this process, if you will, from all governments so far that have adopted spatial plans, to all design decisions, not least until the selection of contractors. It must be said that there is also an investigative commission at this time, which is supposed to figure out how many millions, even billions of euros, are being talked about how much highways should be overpaid. However, it must also be said that in the past some parts of Slovenia have been handed over to foreign operators, both in the Savina Valley and on the coastline, a tunnel in the Trojans. And it turned out that there was no quality performance and that domestic companies later had to finish this. And under the terms of international calls, they had to be cheaper if they wanted to do anything. I don't defend any of the things that go beyond the rules that apply in this society, beyond the laws and so on. We also confirmed at the previous point the proposal to reorganise Darsa, which is also supposed to be more transparent on this basis. And it's supposed to be the last grant of a guarantee for some kind of loan. However, it refers to the completion of certain items from this period and the preparation of elements such as the new tolling system, in order to also compensate for the budget or the budget of Darsa, in order to be able to pay off loans or not to cash in guarantees. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u196	Recently, we were able to read statements by the Government about how good it is that in 2009 there were about 40% fewer victims on Slovenian roads than in the years before. This is not due to the good work of the interior minister, who now boasts the poster, how he hears every voice and has the appropriate equipment, but it is thanks to the vignettes that have run the highways, without obstacles, as they once represented toll stations, which have led to columns across Gorenjska. All you are doing, and this money is meant to do so, is to get out of this situation as soon as possible, to go to another toll system, which will reopen all problems and which will further predict that there will be more casualties. But obviously, human life doesn't mean anything to you, so the important thing is that Dars Five is going to be turning big sums of money. And that's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Explanation of Joža Tanko's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against the law. I will vote against this because, in the last budget rebalancing in hundreds of items, we have reduced the amounts to EUR 500 or even less for individual road sections, but here we bring new burdens with some area law, not for the construction of roads or motorways, but for the development of the toll system. EUR 150 million will be for the development of a toll system that will be once again to the refugees, which will not be compatible with any of the neighbouring major toll systems, and we will continue to pay for the adjustments of this system to a European group of toll systems. Also, given what interventions have been taking place recently from the Office of the President of the Government to Dars, that certain works relating to to towing are being handed over to precisely some dedicated operator, it means that the adoption of this law will only be one label providing the source, a large means that one of the executive companies as a carrier or as a participant will receive a large deal in this, which will not be operational, which will not be compatible with any of the neighbouring systems: not with the Austrian, not Hungarian, not with the Croatian, not with the Italian. This country is rich because it adopts such laws allowing certain lobbyists to participate in such means, while, on the other hand, it expressly deletes funds for all road updates, for the construction of railways, for the construction or reconstruction or for the regulation of bottlenecks and for those still missing parts of motorways. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, for 36, for 24. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Transport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 41st agenda item – Mandate-voluntary matters. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, and the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter dated 15 September 2010, the President of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Etelko Korpic Horvat be elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Stojan Tramtete, to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to summarize briefly the proposal of the President of the Republic that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appoints Dr. Etelko Korpic Horvat as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Docentka Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat was born in 1948 in Czepinci, Goričkem, Prekmurje. In 1971 she obtained university education from a graduate lawyer at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. She also graduated from her master's degree and successfully advocated doctoral dissertation in 1991. During her service, she gained experience in the company as she started working in ABC Pomurka in 1971, where she worked from traineeship to management as a member of the College Managing Authority ABC Pomurk. The Director of SDK, Murska Sobota Branch, carried out two mandates, eight years and then two more, until February 2004 she served as a member and first Deputy to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in Ljubljana. She has also been a professor of labour law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor since 1994. In the same college, the head of the Institute for Labour Relations and Social Security and the institution and lecturer of the subjects is budgetary law and state audit, master's degree in the field of tax law and master's degree in the field of labour law. On the basis of the experience and professional qualities presented, the President of the Republic considers that the associate Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat is a suitable candidate for the constitutional judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It has all the necessary knowledge, experience and personality and will be able to contribute significantly to the continued reputation of the Constitutional Court and to take decisions in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Jože Tanko has the word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Although there will be a secret vote, let us say that in our parliamentary group we will not support the proposal of the President of the Republic for the appointment of candidate Etelka Korpic Horvat as a judge of the Constitutional Court. There's more than one reason. Some are qualified for all the most responsible functions in the country. That's what this proposal is. The candidate was already Vice-President of the Court of Auditors; she is now a candidate for a Member of the Constitutional Court. Another time. That the President of the Republic does not have a happy hand in the procedures and election of candidates to the National Assembly, the resignation of Dr. Jagrič, who was recently appointed vice-governor and a member of the Bank of Slovenia and resigned after being appointed, and Jožet Končana, who resigned as a member of the so-called anti-corruption commission. The latter stated in a derogation that the so-called independent commission in which the President of the Commission and the remaining member are burdened both with political focus, focus and background, as the expert does not see, because the Commission's decisions will already be adopted as political and as such non-creditable. The proposal for the completion of the Constitutional Court also falls within this context. More than the profession is given in our opinion the political profile of the candidate. The ignorance of the President of the Republic, which is being raised to the largest or second largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly, is also the basis for not supporting this proposal. We have repeatedly asked for clarifications regarding his actions and statements related to our constitutional accusation. And when the President of the Republic responded arrogantly, insultedly, even cynically, he said without one single argument that the allegations of a constitutional accusation were unfounded, unfounded and offensive. Despite repeated written calls, the President of the Republic did not respond to our requests or calls. And he probably didn't think it worth answering a third of the National Assembly. Some of the other statements made by the President of the Republic also show what kind of vats it measures in the home. Now we know what a second-class theme is and who are the second-rate victims of past and semi-existence savages. That no one has done much with a Member or candidate for a Member of the Constitutional Court, not a candidate, not a President of the Republic, nor a Cabinet of the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly, not a Party to the Coalition, to the Mandate-Election Commission and its President, is also reflected in the statement of the candidate with whom it agrees with the candidacy. The candidate wrote: "A statement. Signed Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat, born October 5, 2010", listen – 2010! "with residence in Murska Sobota, I agree with the candidacy for President of the Constitutional Court." All those who formulated this proposal had to be very excited or thrilled to see that the birth data did not match the candidate's statement with the proposal made by the President of the Republic. The difference is 62 years. I also wonder how to solve such a mess. We will nominate someone to such an important function who, after a signed declaration, will not be born until next week, or can still be confirmed by the National Assembly. Do you think, colleagues in the coalition, that the documents submitted to the National Assembly should be harmonised in advance. This is a question for the ever-exact Presidents of the Mandate-Election Commission, the National Assembly, and in particular for the President-in-Office of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk. However, we will not support the proposal in the parliamentary group. Given that you are all very careful with the various harmonisation and editorial corrections, even at the point before that, it would be good if we could first coordinate the data, the names, the surnames and then move on to the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that in the House of Members we are convinced that the lady is born, that she exists and that she is working. Of course, we are aware of the important roles of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary in democratic societies in general. We firmly believe that the judiciary, as an independent third branch of government, is extremely important for the preservation of the rule of law and for ensuring the legal security of all citizens and citizens. For this reason, political debates on the decisions of the courts and judicial authorities sadden us. Politics should certainly be aware of its place and the impact it has with its discussions on its relation to this issue in society. Unfortunately, we are also hearing debates in the National Assembly today that, in my opinion, do not belong to this assembly. The President of the Republic was informed that a seat in the Constitutional Court had been vacant in accordance with his powers and tasks and had sought a new candidate. Among the three applicants, he estimated that Etelka Korpic Horvat was the best candidate. Our esteemed President of the State, Dr Danilo Türk, is certainly a recognised legal expert in the Slovenian and international premises and I have no reason not to trust his judgment, so I will also support the candidate for a constitutional judge. But to all those who have expressed doubts in this Chamber today and skepticism about the lady's ability to perform this honorable and challenging function, we report the following. I think it is time to think about our words and actions in this area, Slovenia has a lot of legal experts. The reason why they do not want to apply for the calls for responsible office in the judiciary is likely to be found primarily in our debates and the continued politicisation of the judiciary, which some democratically developed society like Slovenia would like to be, is certainly not an honour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats has always given great importance to the selection of candidates for a judge or a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court plays an extremely large, indispensable role in our constitutional order. Democracy, the rule of law and the consistent respect for human rights are sons of qua non, something without which we cannot imagine the construction and enforcement of the rule of law. We are sure of that, and we sincerely believe that, and we look forward to that. It is therefore of paramount importance that the Constitutional Court also consists of enjoying the full confidence among citizens that this supreme judicial authority, or the sui generis judicial authority, will take decisions that will enjoy confidence and which will also contribute directly to the construction of the rule of law for our space and time and which will also be credible for the area to which we are bordering and in which we are reaching. In this context, we are convinced that the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, also had these main objectives before him when he chose and decided who he would propose to the National Assembly for appointment as a new member or member, that is, a judge of the Constitutional Court. Doc. Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat is certainly a person who enjoys our trust. He's got a lot of practice experience. She was a member and first deputy of the President of the Court of Auditors, and she is an associate professor in the field of labour law at the Faculty of Law in Maribor. It is therefore highly qualified to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court, to which the President of the Republic proposes it because of its qualifications. Its narrow professional competence and competence in the current crisis social situation determines it as the right person for the right place. Members of the Social Democrats will therefore be supported by Dr Etelko Korpic Horvat in his appointment as Judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The debate of Members is next. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I must say that I, too, am a little embarrassed to discuss the person who will be born after this document this week. I'm just wondering how you're going to be, distinguished coalition MPs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u209	Try anyway, Mr. Grill. Try anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u210	Consistency in solving this for me is certainly an important legal problem. [[...]] When we had a debate on this candidate on the Mandate-Election Commission, I was encouraged by the debate, in particular, by the statement by the coalition Members, that the President of the State had no better proposal for a candidate for the Constitutional Court than this. This statement that he didn't have a better candidate will give us a lot to think about. Why didn't he have a better candidate? Obviously, people who are familiar with this area, who are experts, no longer want to participate in such work of the Constitutional Court or other institutions. The credibility of the President of the country itself, I must say, is strongly, strongly conceived, because his proposals, which have been made in the past for various institutions, have proved to be mostly politically highly profiled, the candidates were not really some professional or politically neutral people, but they were, above all, those who advocated the ideology of the current coalition of left-centred parties. I also consider that this proposal is far from appropriate to support it. And that is to say, the letter you received from all the parliamentary groups, or all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, was that they were public servants from the human and accounting fields who expressed great dilemma and also entitlement to this candidate. For those who know her from her past activities do not yet attribute any expertise to her, but they do give her a great ethical question or a dilemma, particularly regarding her inexorability to high fees for her counseling. I don't think the person who is so uncompromising about this kind of profit doesn't deserve to play the role of a constitutional judge. Therefore, of course, I cannot under any circumstances support such a candidate, even though this vote will be secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. We are here to deal with the candidate for the country's highest position, and this candidate should be particularly precise and precise. If, for another reason, because she was in the Court of Auditors, she was the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, that is to say, the Supreme Auditor and the Court of Auditors cannot function in any other way than by the principle of accuracy. That is why we must also look at this proposal from this point of view so that, even in the Constitutional Court, these decisions are not taken in a different way than with a great degree of precision, precision. And candidates, in addition to their high professional knowledge, should also excel at this criterion. Unfortunately, the first document we received in hand, and this is her consent to run, is a document that does not reflect the precision or precision. Nothing. And I think that everyone who looks at these proposals by the President of the Republic with coats should, at least on this proposal, be sober and sober. Unfortunately, I do not think the President of the Republic has chosen the right procedures to come up with a better proposal. From the selection he had in mind, maybe that's the best suggestion. However, in the Republic of Slovenia there are probably many legal experts who are not politically burdened, I will say, a career, with some pedigree who have excellent expertise, who do not have problems with colleagues and critics, etc. The President did not choose the best proposal on this side. I, too, believe that this appointment process should be stopped in order to correct the documents which are the basis for this procedure. I recall the procedure on the Mandate-Election Commission, when we confirmed the mandate of one of the Members in this reference, I think it was Mr Potočnik that the meeting was suspended, that a new agreement had been reached by the representative and only after the rules had been written did the names continue the appointment procedures. In this case, the same should be done. This is how we approach North Korea with this proposal that we have before us. There such decisions are possible to decide on someone who will only have his birthday on the first, the first, the beginning. The other one's a problem, too. Above all, the President of the Republic is looking for contact with the parliamentary groups only when he wants to review some of his proposals. He does not answer, but he does not respond when he is obliged to explain his claim, what his statement, what his statement, as it happened when we filed our constitutional accusation. At that time, the President of the Republic wrote that our constitutional charge was unfounded, unfounded and offensive. And with not a single word or an explanation, he did not argue the matter in spite of the threefold calls. I think that if we want to cultivate some democratic standards, if we want to cultivate some relationship, some positive relationship between the branches of government, the President of the Republic should only have to respond and explain his views. To withdraw, move into a certain world, and think, you just ask, you're just looking for answers, you're probably not going to get them, it's probably not an approach, especially since his predecessor could tell you how to behave to his officials. I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. In reviewing the material of the proposal for the election of a Constitutional Court, the yearbook or the lapsus is signed here in agreement with the candidate, not with the proposal of the President of the Republic, where the right anniversary is clearly written, so there is no need to correct or supplement this material. So much for that. We conclude the debate on 41.f. We are moving to 41.g. – this is to consider the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr President, it must be noted that the proposal of the President of the Republic consists of two parts. One part is his justification and the other part of this proposal is that he or she agrees. And the data in his proposal and in his statement or in the agreement of the candidate do not match.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u215	What is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u216	I suggested you stop the procedure and just coordinate these documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I will reject this proposal. I figured it was an obvious lapsus. The identity of the person we love is clear. And the fact is, this person has given his consent. Thank you very much. I'm moving on to the point. By letter dated 15 September 2010, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint a mag as Vice Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Tomaža Koshaka. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Stojan Tramtete, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that again. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly summarize the proposal of the President of the Republic that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appoints Mr Mag. Tomaža Košaka for Vice-Governor and member of the Council of Banka Slovenije. Mr. Tomaž Košak, born 2. 2. 1970, he is a graduate economist and master of banking and financial science. He was employed by the Bank in 1995 in the Analytical Research Department. In 2002, he was appointed Director of the newly established Financial Stability Department. The scope of its operation shall include, inter alia, analysis of the financial system, analysis of monetary aggregates, interest rate analysis and analysis of the impact of macroeconomic developments on the performance of banks, financial and capital markets and markets in insurance and pension funds. His department works closely with the Banking Supervisory Department and is directly involved in the preparation of stress tests by Slovenian banks. The Financial Stability Department also prepares an annual report on financial stability, one of the most important publications of the Bank of Slovenia. Mag. Tomaž Košak is also the author of numerous articles, professional research and scientific contributions at domestic and foreign conferences. There's a mag in the European Central Bank. Tomaž Košak is a member of the Committee on Banking Supervision and a member of the Committee on Monetary Policy, and in the OECD he is a member of the Committee on Financial Markets, where he actively participates and represents Banka Slovenije. In view of his work so far, he decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that he appoint the candidate as Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The proposal dealt with the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body and informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this proposal in the parliamentary group either. We have recently received an audit report from the Court of Auditors concerning the implementation of the State budget and the Court of Auditors has issued a negative opinion in this audit report. An important basis for a negative opinion was, in the Court of Auditors’ view, the illegal deposit of free funds into commercial banks’ accounts, and these deposits were not daily, as prescribed by the rules, but were for longer investments, for three-year investments, and thus, according to the Court of Auditors, a disguised recovery of the banking system was carried out. Also due to the conduct of the Minister of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has survived the stress test. And this report states that this has also happened with the knowledge or consent of the Bank of Slovenia. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that in general the banking system does not work transparently, because the funds, credits are not granted according to the rules of the Bank of Slovenia, because it is precisely prescribed in what proportion insurance should be provided, but also the largest Nova Ljubljanska Banka grants credit according to some of its rules which derogate from the rules of the Bank of Slovenia. Thus, many companies have received loans under different conditions, on milder terms, under smaller collateral for these loans, some even without insurance, or a mortgage is several times lower than the value of the loan received. This raises in particular the issue of the quality of Banka Slovenije's supervision and also of Banka Slovenije's actions against those which do not implement these rules and laws in the banking system. It is not known that Banka Slovenije would take action against anyone to deprive Banka Slovenije of any license or to introduce any other measures in this area. Although we have also provided a large amount of funding in this mandate to remedy the credit crunch, the economy, with the exception of rare exceptions, is even more connected with the acquisitions than with business decisions, has not received credits or funds and is not in a position to boast about the servicing of banks. Also because this banking system has somehow lost large funds, there are also new demands for recapitalisations, ranging from EUR 200 million to EUR 1 billion for our largest bank. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that with only rotations within the Bank of Slovenia, it is not possible to ensure changes in mentality and approaches, there will be no refreshment, there will be no increased responsibility in this area, there will be no higher quality, because in these cases it is only a repetition of the samples, some I have already counted. We are therefore of the opinion that the President of the Republic for the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia should seek out external personnel and only in this way would there be the possibility for certain changes to be made in the area of supervision of the banking system. Also because the candidate is involved in these tests, as well as in the preparation of the documents and decisions of the Bank of Slovenia, in order to do certain things differently than should be done under the current legislation, we will not support the candidate of the President of the Republic in the parliamentary group for the function of Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The debate of Members is next. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Certainly banks are among the most important members of each country, especially the economy. And if the Slovenian economy fails to get out of this economic and financial crisis somehow faster than we can see in other European countries, it is to a large extent attributable to the very bad work of our Slovenian banks. Especially here can be found the cause also in the poor investments of the New Ljubljana Bank and the operation and everything related to these decisions is primarily controlled and must be controlled by the Bank of Slovenia. If someone says that Banka Slovenije has played its role professionally, qualitatively, I think she is telling the truth or she does not want to admit that we have witnessed a really bad job. Even now, this proposal by Mr Košak for the function of Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, I do not think that this is the right person, because as part of this system, his work so far has obviously not received or performed this role, and he has nowhere to be detected. As explained in the explanatory note, he was involved in the preparation of the stress tests of Slovenian banks. And I have not noticed anywhere that any such test would be published in public and that any more constructive solution could be taken on this basis. I am afraid that someone who is in this system, who is probably also able to bear all the blame for the bad part of the Bank of Slovenia, will now certainly play his role in such a position in particular less responsible or less taken. Therefore, it is necessary for the President of the State to propose to this function someone who knows this area well, and above all to come from outside the Bank of Slovenia, but not within a system that has already operated everything before and before. That is why, of course, I will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and to appoint a Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall decide by secret vote on the election of the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall also decide on the appointment of a Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Anton Kolarič, Marjan Bezjak, Franci Kek and Guido Kres. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Plevelj will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Is there anyone who opposes the proposal to form a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes will be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia will be elected if voted for by the majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. Similarly, in accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank Act, the proposed candidate for the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia will be appointed, if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.45 p.m. and will continue until 6 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 18.15 p.m. Thank you very much. [[The meeting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 18.15 p.m.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u224	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjournment of the 41.f point – with the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the proposed candidate for Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Etelka Korpic Horvat. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 28 September 2010. 65 ballots were distributed, 65 votes were cast, one vote was invalid, 64 votes in force, 48 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. [[Applause]] I ask Dr. Etelko Korpic Horvat, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u225	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and work with all my strength for constitutionality and legality and for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you. [[Applause]] I congratulate the elected Constitutional Judges and wish her a successful job! Thank you very much. We're moving on to the session. I am moving on to the 41st item – the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a vice-president of the Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed Magi candidate. Tomaža Košaka for Vice-Governor and member of the Council of Banka Slovenije. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 28 September 2010. 65 votes were distributed, 65 votes were cast, 3 votes were invalid, 62 votes were valid. 43 members voted against. 19 members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] He's a mag candidate. Tomaž Košak did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members, so he was not appointed vice-president and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Because the candidate is a magician. Tomaž Košak has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with Article 37(6) of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, I will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly on the establishment and assessment of the factual situation with regard to the establishment of issuers, the issuance and financing of free weeks of the Slovenian Week and the Express due to the suspicion that they were issued with a view to influencing the election of Members to the 2008 National Assembly, in favour of the political parties of the then ruling coalition or because of the existence of a suspicion that they were involved in their covert campaign or the financing of political parties The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dusan Kumer. [[He's not going to introduce himself.]] The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! Our parliamentary group has proposed its members to an investigative committee dealing with free of charge, provided or with any possibility of participating in this committee only if the work of this investigative commission has been extended to other cases of free of charge, both in the field of printed and electronic media. Unfortunately for this proposal, the coalition did not attract and insist only on the investigation of two free-of-chargers who had already completed their business career. It does not or does not want to deal with live and active free of charge, and these free of charge also receive very sensitive support, including contributions from companies that are partly or even mostly state-owned. We are also a little surprised by the fact that the coalition does not want to investigate those free people who are being financed, living and whose resources are important assets of state-owned enterprises. Since the coalition has not attracted these initiatives, we have proposed that our member and alternate member, Mr Zorn and Mrs Irgle be removed or withdrawn from this commission of inquiry. We have also sent this proposal to the Commission on a timely basis, but unfortunately this proposal has not been considered and adopted at the first next meeting, as has been the case in the history of the House of State. Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u228	Please, Mr. Tanko. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u229	This was the first time in the history of the National Assembly that the proposal of one of the parliamentary groups that did not want to participate in the investigative committee was not acceptable. The coalition was simply affording some kind of maneuver that was inappropriate and was not at the level of previous behaviour in these cases. Even in the previous term, when withdrawals took place from the Commissions of Inquiry, in particular from the Commission of Inquiry which dealt with Patrio, both proposals were approved immediately at the first meeting of the Commission of Mandate. That's where the coalition picked up another tactic. After all, it was necessary in the coalition to amend the decision and extend the composition of the Commission, which we consider to be its right, but it could have done so if it was not at the time of this consideration at the next meeting. In the parliamentary group, we do not want to work on an investigative committee that will not address an area sufficiently systemicly, sufficiently broad, even though all the options are available. It is necessary to conclude here that there are no proposals which help or which have strong preferences and strong support for this coalition, particularly from the groups of Members or from the group which controls telecommunications. We want this commission to likely come to some results, that this will not only be a commission that will form and adopt conclusions on the basis of the majority in this commission of inquiry, but that these conclusions will be based on actual findings. And the value of this finding and these conclusions would be if we covered a slightly wider spectrum, including what web portal and Good Morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Given that, at the beginning of this regular meeting of the National Assembly, there was an obvious lack of reality and that, at the time of this meeting, when we had an urgent meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it was explained that it was a lie and a lie, I have to say the facts today with the lie that was given to this speaker once again, because I did not have the opportunity to do so, and this lie has been repeated four times. On a case-by-case basis, the SDS Group announced in July that it would no longer participate in this committee. It took two months for her to write to the Mandate-Election Commission on 10 September, which is eight days after a regular meeting of the Mandate-voluntary Commission was convened on 16 September to get out of this commission of inquiry. At my initiative, I added an additional point for this meeting and went to the SDS parliamentary groups. So, I showed her my finger and she wants to rip my whole hand off. And then it's at this same meeting because it's an eclectic first case that we've come to the position that the Commission of Inquiry for the 6th Article of the Rules of Procedure can't work, and it's also an untruth that says that in the past it's been put into the first session more than once. There has never been a case where the work of the Commission of Inquiry would have been reversed in order to fall under five members. This is the first time this has happened. I mean, and today I'm going to say that they did it on purpose on September 10th, in order to address this subject at two sessions on this investigative committee, at this session, to get them out, and at the October session again when they appointed a new commission. I suggest, President, it is procedural for you to remind the leader of the biggest opposition party, because he is speaking the obvious truth, and this is the second time for this speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I think that this procedural proposal was just a rhetorical conclusion to my request. Members and Members shall have the floor. Procedural? But you have a word, Mr. Tanko. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Madam President, I hope that you will also be so tolerant of the procedural proposals made by Members on this side of the Parliamentary Chamber by the end of your term of office. You haven't shown yourself to this kind of behavior yet. Mr. Kumer must have had a replica. He didn't design a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u234	Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u235	Procedural, listen, three minutes, like Mr. Kumer, if you're measuring things with the same vats. Our parliamentary group has announced what its conduct will be when the Commission of Inquiry is established. When the commission of inquiry was appointed, we said in the debate that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members would participate in this commission of inquiry, would work if the subject of the investigation extended to the payer Good morning and also to the electronic freeman Blogorolo and might give Kekov the kicker along with and so on. This has been made public by the parliamentary group. Even later, when these cases did not take place, as was envisaged in some way, as we have suggested, we have pointed out that the Commission of Inquiry, when drawing up the evidence proposal, may also propose amending the evidentiary decision to the National Assembly and extending the subject matter of the investigation. In this process, the coalition did not attract the Group of Members. And then there's the parliamentary group when the work started. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u236	Mr. Tanko, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u237	I've said this three times – that you're doing the same thing as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u238	Then thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u239	to other parliamentary groups. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u240	Then thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u241	Mr. Kumer's got one, too. And we are [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I have to, too. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u242	That's a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u243	Dear President, I too am obliged to respond to the unwarranted lies of my colleague Kumra, as he imagined he would respond to the unfounded allegations I have made. We then proposed a formal procedure on 10 September on the Commission's mandate to amend the decision and to delete the SDS Group and its members from this Decision. This was a completely corrected proposal. The mandate-holder committee may deal with points, in one way or another, by extending or otherwise at its first next meeting. This was all transmitted well before the reference or well before the Commission’s meeting. Instead of being properly addressed by this proposal, the one who held the meeting defrauded him and adopted a different decision from the particular proposal. And I suggest that whoever says that doesn't [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u244	You also abused the Institute of Procedural Proposal. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Yes, we must do our utmost to ensure the Member's freedom of speech and performance. Since his last show and so far, it's been less than a minute. The order is set.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I would like to ask you very much to ensure that the Members we are speaking have normal conditions for discussion. Some parliamentary groups also come from that gentler sex with very arrogant observations and comments. I don't think it's worthy of someone who disagrees with your views and opinions, but he decided to give his opinion. With regard to participation in the commission of inquiry, I believe that the Group of Members is acting on its principles and also on its forecast. At the time of the establishment of this commission of inquiry, when you read the order, we said and proposed that the commission of inquiry extend to the scope of the investigation also to the Freeman Good Morning, to Blogorolo and perhaps to some other printed and also to some electronic freeman. The coalition has not approved this proposal, it is possible, it has a majority, it decides on its own how it will work and how the National Assembly will function. However, we believe that, I would say, an asymmetric consideration of the initiatives that are taking place in the National Assembly in this mandate does not actually lead anywhere. If you want to conduct a high-quality investigation in this commission of inquiry, then it would make sense for you to look at other freemen operating on a similar basis in a similar way, which is even worse, by spending company co-financing in majority state ownership. The only performers, virtually the only performers in these freeways, are the officials, the excellence of the political parties that you have set up this commission of inquiry. We understand your intention, you want those who are the main performers who need the greatest promotion in this part, your exposed political representatives, and that the investigation about these, because they would simply intervene in their operation, integrity and perhaps also in their other activities, will not open and will not open. I must say that this investigation should only be extended, because some of those who are very often performing in these freeways are also involved in some of the other matters that have come on the day mainly in this mandate. When different ways of financing, obtaining business, sponsoring and so on are identified. I think it would make sense for this investigation to expand. However, because you do not want to do so, it is only logical that the Group of Members does not participate. I must say that I myself support the decisions of the two Members who have decided to do so. Because it makes no sense to sit on an investigative committee dealing with last year's, pre-last year's, or even more recent snow, but does not deal with active, political or sponsorship of government coalition politicians. I do not think that it is good in this case that an investigation into these matters should be extended. If we spread it, we'd come up with some very interesting findings. Because that will not be the case, what you will stage, prepare, and guide yourself. Therefore, any qualitatively balanced findings of this Commission of Inquiry, nor are any findings based on any reliable data, likely to be expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Procedurally, the flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The procedural proposal is that you give Mr Tank a reminder, because I think we did not talk about the content of this point in the debate he had. The contents of the point are the appointment of members and the completion of the composition, while Mr Tanko spoke about the content, the work of the investigative commission under way, about the fact that they wanted to achieve anything else with cooperation and, of course, in this sense, it seems to me that the debate on members has been used to discuss free of charge.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u248	Mr. Tanko has received two reminders.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u249	I don't know what else you can do to him, obviously. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u250	He dodged his hair for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u251	There's a problem with that. [[...]] Otherwise, the newspaper for which the debate is to be held, Good morning is supposed to be what the investigator is supposed to be talking about, in the last issue I see your mayoral candidates on both sides, so I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u252	I think we've exhausted the content of the procedural proposal, and you've also received an explanation. The word is Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u253	Thank you very much, President. It is good that I have been reported for discussion, so I do not need to abuse procedural proposals. Mr. Tanko said it right. From the very beginning, the Slovenian Democratic Party has conditioned participation in this commission of inquiry. And I'll do it again. Thus, at the outset, it was conditioned that the Slovenian Democratic Party would not participate in this inquiry committee unless we also deal with the freeman Good morning. This was drawn from the meeting to the meeting. Then the commission of inquiry met before the holidays, and the SDS Group dramatically announced that it was leaving this commission of inquiry because we are not extending the subject matter to Good Morning. Thus, the SDS announced in July that they would no longer cooperate. And, as my colleague Kumer earlier said, by September 10th, the SDS Group needed time to explain in three sentences that it would withdraw from the Commission of Inquiry. And that was eight days after the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission had already convened his meeting. And in order to go hand in hand with the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Kumer extended the meeting, that is to say, this point so that we can realize that the Slovenian Democratic Parties would really not force us to participate in this investigative commission. Mr Tanko is talking about that we should also investigate other freebies, we have about 200 in Slovenia. I must say that I can speak for myself and also for my colleagues, that we do not have such great skills, such skills, so that we can examine 200 free people in one term. I believe you have such capable men on the other side. I have to admit, I don't have that kind of skills. And when you talk about it, you'll be dealing with last year's snow. If I recall correctly, this is how we discussed the establishment of another commission of inquiry on Friday evenings. Now I don't know if Patricia is last year's snow, if it's pre-Last snow, because Patricia's been snowing for a very long time. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u254	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u255	I don't know what kind of snow you have in mind last year, but by that definition, I have to say, it doesn't really drink water. Unless you wanted to expand the investigation by getting another investigative commission that we had in the last term when opposition parties wanted to investigate Mercator, you set up a new investigative commission where you investigated, said and wrote, 86 sales. As it is said, the subject matter of this commission of inquiry is clearly defined. These are two freemen who have arisen and disappeared before the last parliamentary elections. They had one rule. That's not the rules. As you know, we are investigating the suspicion of abuse of media and electoral legislation. And when you talk about the Good Morning, I'm going to say it again, I personally see no reason for this investigation to be extended to Good Morning, because it's not about whether someone likes how it's written or not. So it's a different subject. I know that you are well aware of this investigation, but as it is said, the purpose of all these manoeuvres, which also deal with membership in this commission of inquiry, was to block the work of this commission of inquiry. But I must tell you that the credibility of the commission of inquiry due to the departure of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be reduced. In my opinion, however, the credibility of those who are leaving is very precarious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u256	Please, Mr. Tanko. What do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u257	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u258	Procedural? Procedural proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u259	And also correcting the misstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u260	No, no, I'm sorry, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u261	I'll say it procedurally first. It would be good if we were in this National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-28-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u262	Mr. Tank, we're not gonna play games and go bats. You want to debate, use the Institute of Procedural Affairs. Of course there's no room for a replica, so I'll take your word for it. [[advertising from the hall]] I just warned you to have some order and some discipline in here. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Labour Market Regulation Act, the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 23. 9. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space, the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 23. 9. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill was not harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 40, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the 20th meeting of the assembly. Thank you so much and good night!
