ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished guests! Good-bye! I begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Janez Ribič, Silven Majhenič, Tadej Slapnik and Dr. Peter Verlič. We're moving to 29. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE SCIENTIFIC DATA LAW. At its 14th extraordinary meeting on 23 December last year, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the law amending the law on classified information. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Aloise Kovška, to explain the request of the Council of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u2	Dear President, Honourable Minister and Madam Members and Members of Parliament! State Council of the Republic of Slovenia not at its 14th extraordinary meeting, on 23. 12. On the basis of the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, 2009 on the consideration of the law amending the law on classified information adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 12th regular meeting, adopted a request that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law amending the Law on Secret Data. This is justified by the following explanation. There are two bodies in the current system of the Ministry of the Interior, one in the administrative department and the other in the police department. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has amended this existing regime by means of a proposal for a law amending the Law on Secret Data. The basic aim of the law is, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to propose legislation, rationalisation and reorganisation of work in the field of the granting of access to classified information at the Ministry of the Interior. The proposal for a law amending the Secret Data Act provides for the Ministry of the Interior to assume powers from the Police concerning the granting of access to classified information. However, in our view, this objective, by means of the law amending the law on classified information, does not follow the objectives that have actually been legalised. Under the cover of the reorganization and rationalisation of services in the Ministry of the Interior, political control is sought in the context of the authorisation of access to classified information. The essence of this law amending the Secret Data Act is to transfer the decision to the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the management of the verification for issuing secret data work permits. This change brings about a significant substantive shift, which also shows a certain lack of confidence in the Police, which was or should have been an independent expert body. It should be stressed that the work on classified information is a very important issue for citizens and citizens, and it is right that such matters are managed by those who are completely independent and are not politically subordinate to anyone. In this case, the Ministry of the Interior or, more specifically, the Minister or Minister of the Interior and its or its Secretary of State will manage the database by means of a proposal for a law amending the law on classified information. These two are both politically appointed. The proposed amendments and the amendments to the Secret Data Act mean that this work will also be subject to undisputed political control, but that independent supervision and independent work will be completely lost and all will be transferred to a body that decides and acts exclusively politically. It should also be pointed out that the explanation of the proposal for a law amending the law on classified information and the accompanying comparative regulation does not show the justification for the proposed solution by transferring the decision to carry out the verification of the issue of secret data work permits from the Police to the Ministry of the Interior. The solutions provided by this law constitute a significant substantive change in the context of the granting of access to classified information and a significant deviation from the regime as is known by other Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as a parent working body, considered the request of the Council of State at its 12th session. 1. 2010 Members and members of the Committee had at their disposal the request of the Council of State and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Mr Alojz Kovšca, representative of the Council of State, said in a further explanation of the request of the State Council what we had just heard from him. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Karlovšek, said that the legislative and legal service in the opinion focused only on the arguments arising from the request of the State Council, without any specific comments being made by the Legislative and Legal Service in the light of its commercial competences. Representative of the Government, Secretary of State, Mag. As part of his presentation of the written opinion of the Government on the request of the State Council, Klemenčič rejected the State Council's allegations that it wished to establish political control. Members and members of the committee were somehow on two shores in the debate, the coalition's representatives defended the solutions set out in the law, while the opposition's representatives opposed the argument that it was not a reorganisation, but that it was a fugitive in Europe and a political subjugation of this work area. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, 11 for and 6 against: "The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Secret Data Act is appropriate." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Government reiterates that the proposed law amending the Secret Data Act amends the existing regime in which two authorities are competent within the same department to grant access to classified information. The amendment to Article 22 of the Law thus merely means a reduction in the number of authorities responsible for granting access to classified information. The powers of the police are transferred to the Ministry, which is already one of the authorities carrying out these tasks in addition to the Police, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency and the Ministry of Defence. The State Council's arguments and some members of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice do not stand up to the fact that, for reasons of rationalisation and reorganisation, an attempt has been made to provide political control over the management of the database of authorised access to classified data. They also cannot bear to state that the amendment of the legislation should be problematic because the police on security clearance procedures not only examine their employees but also other persons involved in police procedures or in procedures in which the police use covert investigative measures which, by their nature, are such that they do not allow the supervision of the Ministry. The Director-General of the Police shall be responsible for the authorisation of employees of the police and persons who will need permission to deal with classified information in organisations, service manufacturers who, in carrying out contracts of a confidential nature of individual authorities, not only the Police, shall inform the contracting authority of the confidential information. There is a clear misunderstanding, as the involvement of individuals in police procedures or in procedures in which police use covert investigative measures has nothing to do with the authority of the police to issue permits. As an example, I should point out the Law on Electronic Communications, on the basis of which it is for employees of electronic communications network operators who, in order to carry out statutory tasks, have the need to access classified information, to issue a permit already under the applicable provisions of the law on classified information, the Ministry of the Interior and not the Police. The proposer considers that the present regulation makes it possible to carry out the tasks rationally and qualitatively, and proposes that the National Assembly re-vote the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. They may communicate their views to the proposal of the Council of State for re-decision. Mr Franz Jurša will be the first to speak on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the DeSUS have already unanimously supported the amendment of the Secret Data Act at the previous meeting, and we will do so this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u10	Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we once again support the proposal for a law amending the Secret Data Act, which aims to rationalise work on the issue of licences at the Ministry of the Interior. At the Ministry of the Interior, it is noted that the competence of the two authorities granting access to classified information is not optimal and rational in the field of the protection of classified information in relation to the existing regime. The Ministry of the Interior intends to unify the area of authorisation for access to classified information and security permits to organisations that have now been distributed between the Ministry of Interior and the Police and to establish a single organisational unit within the Ministry of the Interior to carry out the tasks of the Ministry of Interior and Police. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, is once again called upon to attach an assessment of the financial implications that would thus be saved to the proposal for legislative changes to be adopted for rationalisation. Despite the substantive support of the proposal, we would like to draw attention to Article 4 of the proposed law, which provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2010. That dictatorship should undoubtedly be amended in order to define the date of entry into force of the law as the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Like I said, we'll back this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Good morning, good day to you all! Greetings to the Minister, a coworker, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a re-decision on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Secret Data. The debate in the State Council, or the reasons for the re-decision on the bill, does not convince us. On the contrary. I must tell you that I am amazed and amazed at how many fears, negative thinking - this gives me the impression that in the past all this has happened. I assure and I am sure that this will no longer be the case with the new legal solutions. Therefore, on behalf of the Member Club, I would like to briefly summarise why we believe that the proposed changes to the law are definitely going in the right direction at the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club. As part of the austerity package, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also undergoing amendments to the labour systematisation acts that will ensure the rationalisation of work processes. The solutions proposed represent a unified and streamlined way of working by establishing one organisational unit within the Ministry of the Interior to carry out the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police in implementing the provisions of the Secret Data Act. The adoption of the law amending the law on classified information will have no negative financial implications on the state budget, which is important. Changes are also being made to take account of government measures regarding the rationalisation of services, as the current regime under which access to public data is granted is neither rational nor optimal. Under the current regime, four authorities, namely the Ministry of Defence, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, are competent to carry out a security review and authorisation for access to classified information. In particular, the tasks in the field of classified work are certainly duplicated in the latter two services. Therefore, with the aim of rationalising the work and reorganising the MNZ service, the powers of the Police to grant access to classified information are being revoked, which will then be carried out by a special organisational unit within the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has been carrying out these tasks so far. The Special Service of the Ministry of the Interior is already carrying out security checks for all civil servants, with the exception of Ministry of Defence workers, Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency and the Police. In view of our national security system, it is therefore certainly reasonable, logical and also necessary that the Ministry of the Interior carry out these tasks for the police. Since we believe in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that the rationalisation and greater efficiency of the state administration certainly mean the realization of one of the fundamental tasks ahead of us, we will once again support the proposal for a law amending the law on classified information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The new law on classified information, which we are re-declaring today, was introduced into the legislative procedure on 2 November 2009. In the course of the course of business, the Council of State forwarded the opinion of the Commission on State regulation, which concluded that the proposed amendments to the law followed the decisions of the Government and carried out a project on the rationalisation of work at the ministries. However, they pointed out in their opinion that they lack the indication of savings that might affect the state budget. It is clear from the opinion that the representative of the Government then replied satisfactorily to these concerns that the financial implications would not be and that changes were not due to the resolution of problems, but to the rationalisation of the services, as it was found that the authorisation of access to classified data was not rational and not optimal. On 2 December 2009, we discussed and adopted a new law on classified data on the home working body. Prior to the adoption or discussion, the President of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure said that the Commission which chaired it was in favour of the amendment of the law. The Council of State then adopted, at its 14th extraordinary meeting on 23 December last year, a request for the National Assembly to re-decision on the amendment of the law, explaining that the amendment does not follow the objectives, but that political control is established under the cover of rationalisation and reorganisation with regard to the granting of secret access licences. At the same time, it was suggested that the police should not be trusted. Of course, such arguments are already well - known to members and members of the parent’s working body, and they can never surprise us again. Given that the scope of authorisation for access to classified information and security permits shared between the Ministry of the Interior and the Police was already in force in the current law, the question is whether the opponents of this novel have found a little late that the transactions may no longer have even political control in this area, given that they have established an appropriate staff force for this service in the previous mandate. So I'm going to do the following again. At the time of the adoption of the basic law in 2001, the powers to grant access to classified information were conferred on the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, so we have no reason to oppose this proposal this time. In the Social Democrats Group, we also support the Government's efforts to bring together the tasks that are scattered across individual ministries and in this way optimise the work, but of course it must not interfere with the quality of the tasks performed. Above all, it is not in such a sensitive area where security checks also interfere with the field of human rights. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the Minister has a hearing to protect human rights, she has already demonstrated this several times, and she will deal with this area properly with her colleagues, because we do not believe in the theory of conspiracy that they are predicting in the opposite political sex, as it has already been pointed out in the home labour system and in the State Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In a presentation of a position that is similar to what we had when we adopted the law itself, let me draw some red thread through the developments at the Ministry of the Interior in the adoption of laws. We have already received a package of laws or laws on the Police in the past year, which in a unique way has arranged for the appointment of the Director-General of the Police. We have so far had 10 to 15 candidates on call, I stress all of them since 1998. This time we are in line with the paradigm announced by the President of the Government that we will have a human resources policy that will be right, which will be fair, which is also the SD's electoral password or one of their main passwords, and in short, changes in this area, but we have received something completely different. We have received a police law that is not comparable to any European country. The explanation said that it was the most democratic system, that it was the best system, etc. But we had a system that was a copy of the Estonian system. And no other European country has such a solution. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior has promised me that they will give me an analysis that proves how democratic and European this is. So far, of course, there is no such analysis. However, the state-level analysis shows that the situation in Europe is as I said at the time. Thus, Slovenia has received a unique solution, after which one person, who is in advance a certain and, of course, famous, well-known commission, in which the president of the country also participates, confirms this person. So this is a new paradigm. As far as the Secret Data Act is concerned, I can say the following. No European country, I stress, has any European state of such arrangements as this law provides. Slovenia is once again unique. Slovenia has a national authority in this area, the Ministry of the Interior takes care of the issue of these permits for all national authorities and for itself, the Sova takes care of itself and its employees, the Ministry of Defence for its own and the Police for its own. I don't know one European model, one, to list me who, he'll know, can also be in front of a camera outside that would take away the police's field of work. The actual situation is as follows. On behalf of the reorganisation, "sparing" and so on, this law places three police officers from offices at one end, offices at the other end, with nothing to save this law. Absolutely nothing. Of course, it can bring great advantages to the minister. Why? These people who work today in the Police Department and will work tomorrow at the Ministry of the Interior and will deal with classified information will be subordinated to the ministers, not to the Chief of Police. This is the only good political gain for the LDS client and for the minister. The only gain this law brings. The comparison, as the minister put it, doesn't hold. The ones on Telecom, Cell phone, or Simobil, what do they have to do with classified information? To get a court order, they take it to the records and make a connection. Those people that the Minister will now be able to monitor politically are other people. These are the people for whom the police are checking for access to classified information. They're not just police employees. That means they're also secret police co-workers. The Minister has absolute insight into this law into who secret police co-workers are. And it's not appropriate, it's not right for a minister to compare things that aren't comparable. This means that the police department is leaving the Police Department under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior. Not only that! This work area is now under the leadership of Mr Zaberl, who is in charge of police control. No, we have to take it one more step further. This area is under the direct influence of the Secretary-General, who is a prominent member of the Liberal Democracy. So, seen, known, known, the division of prey continues after a year and three months. In our client, we will listen to the demands of the State Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. I also welcome the representatives of the Council of State! Your Honor! On 18 December, the National Assembly adopted the Act amending the law on classified information. However, the Council of State voted veto on the above-mentioned law, on the grounds that, under the cover of the reorganisation and rationalisation of services at the Ministry of the Interior, it is intended to establish political control in the issue of access to classified information. In the Group of Members, we cannot really agree with the position and justification of the Council of State, since almost every ministry keeps certain records or certain sensitive data. Since 2003, the Ministry of the Interior has been managing this area, keeping a register of classified information and for all state authorities, except for the Owl, the Ministry of Defence and the Police, carrying out security checks. We cannot talk about the transfer of control over classified information, under some direct political authority. In the Group of Members, we will really re-support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the request of the State Council is justified, so we also objected to the law at the previous meeting of the proposal. While it is stated in the main solutions to the law that changes only bring about the rationalisation of work in the field of issuing enough to access classified information at the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior therefore notes that the arrangements for the protection of classified data are not optimal and rational. The area that has been most likely divided between the Ministry of the Interior and the Police for a reason so far is now about to be unified or rationalised. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already said and reiterated our view that we all smell more of the concentration of certain powers and we are not sure that this is as well intentional as it is shown. It seems to us that this is an attempt to politically control the management of the database with regard to authorised access to classified data. Therefore, we do not see a reasonable reason for taking away this authority from the army and the Owl. We are even concerned, as I mentioned earlier, that the transfer of power means the possibility of politicising data. At the previous meeting, we have already discussed the Law on Electronic Communications, where we have had similar concerns and doubts about well-meaningness when reading the articles. As stated in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not once again support the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Voting on the law [[...]] [[Can I read it to the end?]] In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will meet today after the adjournment of the 34th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.25 a.m. Can I help you, Mr. Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given the fact that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u23	What will be the content of your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u24	I'll make a suggestion at the end, but I'll explain the content. At the meeting of the working body, the Secretary of State, Mr Klemenčič, said that the Minister was not at the meeting because "the right-wing officer regulates the databases of classified data". This is such a horrifying violation of the Constitution and the law that we cannot go beyond it. For this reason, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u25	Mr Jerovšek, you have a chance [[...]] [[They're both talking at the same time!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u26	For this reason, I propose, Mr President, that, before the vote, the President of the Government, who had to react, surely report on the internal investigation into what the Minister has really done or whether she has really violated the Constitution and the law. Without that, we cannot vote. If the Secretary of State freely allows himself to acknowledge what the Minister is doing, we have the right of Members to report on such an eccentric violation of the constitution he has said or explained. He has to react.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Your proposal is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I advise you, because I have also been to a meeting of your mother's working body to read a magnetogram and you will see, in addition to everything else, that this claim has been denied. We're moving to the next item on the agenda, 30. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and the Lords of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 14th meeting, on 23 December 2009, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia be re-elected before the announcement. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Cvetko Zupančič, to explain the request of the Council of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u28	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished Minister, have a good day! At its 12th regular session on 18.12.2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The adopted law is held at the 14th extraordinary session of the 23rd. 12. In accordance with Article 97 of the Constitution, the Council of State accepted the request that the National Assembly decide again on the law. The state councillors decided to re-decision the National Assembly by a large majority. This is due to the following facts brought by law: the abolition of the supervisory committee and the control by the National Assembly, the transfer of part of the Forestry Service from the Slovenian Forestry Office to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, is a legal part of the concessional regulation, which is already questionable or bad in itself; the law also provides that 7% of the annual realization of the timber sold to local communities and the transfer of building land to municipalities. These were the main starting points at which the Council of State defined itself. The Council of State estimates that the law in question does not contribute to the better and more efficient functioning of the Fund, while at the same time engendering the functioning of the Institute for Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the financially poor fund itself. That this is a financial weakening of the Fund, it already announces the law itself when it foresees that after 2012, the Fund will become a budgetary consumer. The content of the law, however, gives rise to the influences and pressures of local communities and forestry companies. National councillors believe that agricultural and forest land is a state capital to which the state must have a special relationship in the direction of protection, control and good management. This law does not have this law, so the state councilors propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia does not adopt this law and that the Government prepare a new proposal for a law that follows the above-mentioned objectives as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The request of the Council of State was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Franco Bogovic, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u30	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! At its 12th meeting, on 19 January, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the request of the Council of State to decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 12th meeting on 18 December last year. Councillor of State Cvetko Zupančič participated, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Legal and Legal Services, the Fund and the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and representatives of the Institute for Forests. As material, the members of the Committee received the request of the State Council of 24.12.2009, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 6.1.2010 and the opinion of the Government of 15 January this year. The Legislative and Legal Service has determined that the questions to be answered in the veto are, in particular, of a substantive nature, and therefore has not been defined as matters which they consider to be a domain of content, the right policy of Parliament. The representative of the Council of State presented the reasons for the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the law which specifically points out the following areas: the incomplete transfer of unpaved buildings of the fund to the municipalities; point 2 stresses the abolition of the supervision of the National Assembly of the work of the Fund; and, in addition, around the new concessions and the distribution of these concessions, the resources are also, in the opinion of the Council of State, additionally deducted for the professional works to be carried out by the current staff of the Institute of Forests, later under the Fund. The point is also that it brings nothing more effective and transparent in the field of this land policy. The representative of the Government has disputed all these allegations, and I think we will hear this part from the Ministry further. In the debate itself, which took place later, both members of the Committee and representatives of the State Council, the Institute of Forests participated. Perhaps their position is that they are not among us today. The representative of the Institute for Forests stressed that the work of the Institute for Forests has been carried out in good faith and in good faith, and time will show whether new solutions will be so rational in the future. That was a warning on this side. Among the Members themselves, the representative of the Slovenian People's Party supported this position, which was also stated by the Council of State in its explanation of the veto, while the representatives of the coalition parties agreed with the content of the law as adopted in December. After the discussion, the Committee also voted on the opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was appropriate, saying that it opposed the veto. Unfortunately, this proposal has not received sufficient support, as we know that most of the Committee should vote in favour of such a decision, five of them voted in favour, one member opposed, but because most of the members are required, no such decision has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u32	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, Miran Potsch. Dear Members and Members! The main task of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests at its establishment in 1993 was to carry out denationalisation procedures. Over 50,000 hectares of agricultural land and 84,000 hectares of forest were transferred. 17 years have passed, and this role is being concluded and a new role of the Fund is coming to the fore, which we want to achieve with the amendment of this law and with regard to amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act and other regulations. The Fund must become a tool for an effective active land policy, as there has been insufficient attention in the past period to measures in this area. The proposed amendments and additions to this Act are expertly and analytically well-thought and have a number of inter-ministerial coordinations. It is important to point out that, despite the judicial partial interests, we have consistently followed the interests of the State and the objectives of the law and the content of the bill, in order to harmonise the existing legislation already adopted by the National Assembly, the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Above all, we wanted to maintain an institution which, in its field as a representative and a protector of the interests of the State, would be able to control and manage its assets successfully. In addition, the additions to the new law allow for the effective implementation of an active agri-land and forestry policy, which we very, very much need. In particular, the legal solutions allowing the fund to operate with private land to enable owners to decide to transfer them to the management of the fund are important. This provision is important with regard to the envisaged amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, which will highlight as one of the important objectives the greater responsibility of agricultural land owners and forests for their proper use, the implementation of an active land policy, the halting of the further loss of agricultural land, the prevention of the healing, the prevention and overcoming of the fragmentation of agricultural land and, lastly, the construction of the best agricultural land. An important change is that provides for the allocation of revenue surpluses over expenditure arising from the sale of assets with which the fund does not now manage. The amendment of the law should also address the issue of the final regulation of property records owned by the State, which is essential for more efficient management of agricultural land and forests. The bill, in our view, adequately evaluates the public service and supervisory functions in the management of state property. The claims on the demolition of a single forestry service are completely unfounded and pre-eminently suggest a tendency to maintain non-transparency in this area. The economy as an expert in our view has successfully taken care of one of the largest natural wealth of the forest and with all its functions. The proposed amendments to the law are also in line with the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial. This change has not changed the scope of control of the Fund. The role of the Executive Branch of the Authority, which is responsible for implementing the laws and regulations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government will report annually to the National Assembly on the functioning of the Fund. In drafting the law, we also examined its organisation in the form of a public institution and assessed that it would play its role effectively in the current organisational form. We are also dealing with the issue of the transfer of building land, because once they lose the status of agricultural land, they cannot be in the management of the fund anymore. Amendments to the law specify more precisely the way in which the work of the concession is transferred to this public good, as provided by legislation in this field. In doing so, the amount of the duty shall be comparable to the calculations of the part of the concession belonging to the municipalities of other natural goods. On the basis of a simulation of the effects of the law, we can foresee that the Fund will successfully manage agricultural and building land under the assumption that it will successfully manage and generate a surplus of income over expenditure. This means that it will still be able to carry out its basic function smoothly, as it has been so far. However, the possible high compensation resulting from the implementation of the denationalisation law would have an impact on the financial operations of the Fund, whether or not we amend the law. We believe that by amending the law under consideration, we are taking the first steps towards implementing an active land policy. After the adoption of other legislation prepared in this area, as well as to halt further reductions in agricultural land. I therefore propose, honourable Members, that you adopt a proposal for amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members on the proposal of the Council of State. The first is Mr Srečko Friend on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General. Colleagues and colleagues! In the last vote, the Slovenian national party supported this law. We believe that the Fund should play a more important role in the future in the implementation of active land policy, with a view to better governance and a more appropriate way of managing the Fund. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you that the National Assembly has established this fund and this fund has been operating practically without supervision since 1993. I would like to recall how many times I have mentioned for this speaker what kind of pigs are doing in line and we have also requested written, several times, the replacement of the director. Apart from the fact that we have been actively paying compensation for denationalisation proceedings since that year 1993, we have done nothing else. We have warned in the Slovenian National Party for years and years, and we are also now warning that municipalities that are financially inadequate are insufficient. This law allows municipalities to get some of what they would never, in fact, receive - wood concessions and provides for the possibility of free transfers and free transfer of property owned by the State for the benefit of the municipalities. This is essential because the municipalities have their developmental needs and visions, in fact, the expansion of the wall areas. Today it was done domestically; some were allowed this if you had so-called "VIP connection and acquaintance", you could also get this paper. This was decided in the exclusive by Director Daolio. The Fund did not report to the National Assembly, and in fact it had a supervisory council, which it almost named. I am pleased that in the future we will have a supervisory function and will be responsible for the work of the Government Fund in the future. Because there will be no more excuses that it is not possible to make an important project on agricultural land, which is, of course, possible if it is actively driven with all professional views, including a change in the wall area and so on. It wasn't possible today if you didn't have the right connections. I would only mention one project that stands because it doesn't actually move anywhere. The National Assembly provided budgetary resources for the largest airport museum in Europe. It stands because, in fact, the Director of the Agricultural Lands Fund has assessed that this is not important. A number of European countries have joined the implementation of this project and will play an important role in an already bad economic area, in an underdeveloped area, of course, in terms of the development of tourism. We would like the Government to be responsible for these areas and have the opportunity to help municipalities when projects are justified. And that's what's going to happen with this change of law. What I would also like to point out is agricultural land, which is more or less contaminated today. I was talking about pollution in Drnice area in Izola and Koper. There are hundreds of hectares of agricultural land used for landfills used by builders for the disposal of construction material. The farm did not react. The Minister of Environment and Space spoke for half an hour about the irregularity of this company, which has significantly polluted this area, but neither the Fund nor the Minister for Environment and Space have acted accordingly. When Croatia reached out to our territory in a way that called for a wall-based Slovenian land, the Director of the Agricultural Lands Fund went to look at this situation at the time, [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But more than that, it didn't happen. [[...]] He didn't react. There was no lawsuit, no report from him to the Government, no request for appropriate action. With this law, which we are amending today, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u36	There's going to be a lot of changes. [[...]] Above all, we will increase the financial adequacy of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Club, the position will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister and fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I will continue there and in the same spirit as my predecessor has already begun, because it is a broad important story, which in recent weeks also receives political dimensions, which are linked not to the state benefit, but to the personal interests and objectives of individuals. What's this all about? About a year ago, we found that the business and control of logging in state forests was not what it should have been for us to be part of the buyout. And what does a good master who defends public interest do? This control measures, increases and improves. Those who at the time showed us that control was too little now oppose it because of their personal interests. Let's go in one order. One of the main findings from the beginning of this story was, I quote, the statements I received from a staff member of the Institute for Forests and one of the signatories of this petition, which excites the Slovenian public in the last week. It says: "Concessionaries systematically prevent the control of both the employees of the Institute for Forests and the field foresters of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the monitoring of forest forest ranges is not carried out by discrediting the work of the Institute for Forests with the aim of distancing it from direct presence in the execution of works and handling of cut wood: degradation, intimidation, discipline of fund foresters who know too much and employment of new, generally untapped obedient foresters, to leading jobs and so on. [[...]] And what does a good master do when he sees irregularities? It strengthens control and improves it. And it's obviously not right in this state someone today, and it's not right. The income of the fund is increasing from year to year. That's right and that's normal. Those who oppose it today then told us that if they were to manage the stock forests, their ransom would be four times as high as in Austria. And that's exactly what we're doing. Slovenian forests are well managed with the help and thanks to Slovenian forestry professions, state forests are the most beautiful, the best, the most exemplary forests in the country, except that the purchase from them, according to the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is too small. The concessions were awarded in 1996 and will be renewed again in 2016. And all these discussions need to go in the direction of making the business out of these forests bigger and better in 2016. All those who advocate this law agree with the view that forests must serve the public interest, so that access to state and private forests will remain free and all the goods and all the multifunctionalities offered by Slovenian forests as national wealth. Second reading. In Slovenia, the forestry sector has close to 800 foresters, which is about two to four times more per hectare of forest than in Austria, however we look at it, and this is also an important information. The farmers themselves find in their reports that they have 24 local units too much, that the burden on forest workers is extremely uneven, that some are burdened by a factor of 0.43%. Ladies and gentlemen, that means they're only working half the time. And because we will take away from 800 people page 17 people from one function for the country to perform another, which now had to be rich and well paid, it is a planned attack on the forestry profession in Slovenia. Listen, nonsense! None of these wondered when they were falling and what would happen to Slovenian companies. Now it's a mess. Second story. That it is wrong because part of these funds are intended to maintain forest roads. The catches, as they were today and this year, make millions and millions of euros [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] damage in Slovenian forests, especially on infrastructure and roads. [[...]] And only 10% of us manage to make it right. And we could count it. It is also right for the congregation to get land for kindergarten, for school, for the home of the elderly, and for the club [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u39	Mr. Saiovic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u40	We'll back it up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you so much for your attitude. Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The adopted amendments to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia follow the Constitutional Court's decision and the applicable legislation, which the Fund has not implemented before the adoption of this law. The decision of the Constitutional Court concerns the regulation of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, which provided that the Fund should indicate in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia the surplus of revenue over expenditure. This means that the Fund is running out of funds for the Fund's active role in the purchase of agricultural land and forests. If the law is not re-adopted, the fund will be seriously threatened because it will remain without any excess of revenue over expenditure. In addition, this law has adopted a decision to maintain the resources created as a surplus of expenditure over previous years. It goes specifically for €6 million and, if the law is not adopted, the fund will also be destitute. The law still follows the warnings of the State Council that the Fund will have to have its own resources if it is to implement its policy. And this marriage allows this to happen. Otherwise, it will really come true that he will not be able to carry out his task. The adopted law addresses the non-implementation of Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act, which provides that if a concession is granted by a State in natural goods, it belongs to a part of the concessionary municipality where the concession was created. We would expect the Council of State to strive to comply with legislation rather than propose its proposals not to disregard the Environmental Protection Act. The adoption of the law also solves, in our opinion, the constitutionally contested decision of the Government and the National Assembly in the previous term, when the nationalisation of the municipal non-walled buildings was enacted. We would expect the State Council to take the lead in returning land to its own congregations because it was already their property. In addition, this law allows for the transfer of unpaved building land to the future if the municipality needs such land for the construction of kindergartens, schools, cultural and sports facilities, health care, the home of older citizens, roads, energy, municipal infrastructures, in short, everything we need in all municipalities for successful development. And the National Council clearly estimates that we do not need this in Slovenia. The adopted law also regulates the responsibility for the operation of the Fund, which will be responsible to the Minister of State and to the Government, while at the same time the Government must report to the National Assembly on the operation of the Fund. Let me remind you that we also had a case where the Chairman of the Supervisory Board became the director of this Fund at the same time, so we had a case where, in fact, one person ran this fund, which is supposed to be supervised, but at the same time, the fund was never directly responsible to the Government or the National Assembly. Who, in fact, did he answer to? The fund is such a parastatal institution, and this is what this law changes and regulates responsibility directly in relation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, consequently, also to the National Assembly, which oversees the functioning of the Government. The transfer of part of forest workers from the Institute of Forests to the Fund, in our opinion, will not be necessary if the Institute of Forests carries out its tasks, as it has already been entrusted by the Law on Forests as a public forestry service. Article 50 of the Law on Forests states that employees of the institution take over works carried out in the forest if they have been co-financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The amount of State resources invested in state forests is set out in concession contracts, so they have all the grounds to carry out their work today. For these reasons and reasons, we believe that the request of the Council of State is unfounded and we will re-vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable present. Today, due to the opposition's failure to comply with the proposals in the interim hearing, we are re-negotiating and deciding on the amendment of the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund. The fact is that no amendment has been adopted to improve the bill. Of course, the amendments tabled were also based on a public presentation of opinions, which also involved a number of people who proposed some more appropriate solutions than the ones set out in the law today. However, despite this, the fact is that the Public Institute of Agricultural Lands was set up with one purpose, this is the exercise of denationalisation. So, it's about bringing back state-owned agricultural land, farms and forests. The years of its operation have shown that the Republic of Slovenia or its nationals at national level need an institution that will also successfully manage agricultural land, farms and, in particular, forests owned by the State after the denationalisation has been completed. The Fund has fulfilled certain obligations, including those imposed on it in addition to both labour and financial obligations, throughout its existence. The amendment that we tabled on the Committee was of a substantive nature because it completely deletes provision 10a. an article which is unnecessary and also does not have to be regulated by law. At the last reading, we said that we are referring to the conclusion of this National Assembly, which we adopted this year, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government to immediately align the concession act on the award of concessions in the state forests with Article 164 of the Environmental Protection Act, which stipulates that if a concession at the level of goods is awarded by the State, part of the concession also belongs to the municipality." This confirmed the above explanation that this content of the division of concession between the State and the municipality should be regulated in the concession act and not in the law. However, we support the Minister's proposal, in the light of the facts that we have mentioned, in order to make an appropriate change to those legal bases and regulations that further absorb the financial resources which could otherwise be earmarked for effective land management and land purchases. We also agree with the harmonisation of the Fund Act with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the regulation of the issue of the transfer of unpaved buildings to municipalities and the possibility of unpaid transfers, unpaved building sites to municipalities in cases of public interest. The human resources reinforcement of the Forestry Sector, which will enable the Fund to manage forests in a state-owned manner optimally, is a good solution, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Fund will carry out the tasks set out in Article 57 of the Forest Act, which has been carried out by the Institute of Forests under a contract concluded so far between the Institute of Forests and the Fund against payment for the Fund. As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we sincerely expected that good proposals to improve the law will be taken into account at the first reading, but that is exactly what I will say is that the arrogance of the coalition has led to the opposition's amendments to today's re-decision. Despite what is stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party, there are also some good solutions in the law that could contribute to making the Fund an even more effective tool for the implementation of agricultural and forestry policy. Therefore, we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, indeed, we will once again support the proposal of the law in today's vote. In doing so, we would also like to express our thanks and congratulations to the Minister and some at the Ministry of Determinedness and Perseverance in the preparation of this law, including for the speed of preparation, which proves that this law has not arisen to pressure or at the request of one political option, one of the parties or one of the participants involved in this law, but is the result of a really long and particularly professional and analytical work carried out by the Ministry. Therefore, the law, as it is, is, in particular, good for everyone, the best for those who live with agriculture, who will also be able to regulate matters related to land processing on the basis of this amended law. The law is also good for those who manage the premises in which these lands are located. These are municipalities that have so far invested a great deal of financial resources and work for change in certain lands and have in their area unwalled building plots with which they have been operating and sold by the Fund of Agricultural Lands. Communities which can also benefit from such a policy through partial reimbursement of concessions and receive certain revenue to offset costs related to roads and other infrastructure that are being destroyed in the exploitation of forests and other agricultural areas. Above all, this law is good for the Agricultural Land Fund itself, which will thus be free of all other work, which also significantly employed the fund itself, which was more a seller and an intermediary in individual sales than by this active role of the agricultural policy that the Fund is supposed to carry out. In doing so, I can thank and commend many very good exhibits and individuals on the ground, who are then waiting for every decision and must receive a blessing from headquarters in Ljubljana. I am convinced that this law will allow this active agricultural policy to be better implemented and that this law is also good for foresters who will be able to do even better with their responsibilities. Thus, in the Group of Members, we are also really pleased with the debates and views of the other groups of Members, particularly the predecessors. Little in jest - we would also rarely sign under Mr Friend's position, today with the difference of one sentence also under it. So, in the Group of Members, we will really back up this law, which is good for all those involved in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u48	Have a nice hello again! In the Slovenian People's Party, at the time of the adoption of this amendment, we have always opposed such a change as proposed by the Government, even though we share the view that there is some solution to this amendment that has positive effects and we support them. The law must certainly be aligned with the decision of the Constitutional Court. We also did not oppose the solution to the transfer of building land, we also support solutions which also regulate that for those infrastructure facilities and also facilities, schools, kindergartens that are needed, in the future after a faster, simpler procedure, are transferred to the municipalities and that these matters are regulated by the State and local communities by hand. We firmly believe that there are some weaknesses in marriage. We are in this position that the fact that the Fund is no longer a supervisory committee shows that it is actually necessary, as has been said, to regulate the Fund in accordance with the operation of public institutions. We are surprised in some way that the fund, which has a tenth of the area of Slovenia in the best forests, is 200,000 hectares, with more than 50,000 hectares of the best agricultural land, does not have this supervisory board, because it is very difficult to compare such a fund with some ordinary public institution. We therefore believe that this regime, which would continue to have a supervisory committee and a wider supervisory function through the public, would be better than the one proposed in the current regulation. As we see the great weakness of this law, there is also no basis for a more active land policy of the Fund. As we have already noted today, the Fund concludes its role in the denationalisation process. There are no extensions here for the Fund to purchase agricultural land, so that the Fund can round up the hill farms, perhaps with some share of the forests that are today with concessionaires. In this part, we believe that this law should therefore be adopted at the same time as the agricultural land law. Those things that should be taken up after a reduced procedure, and adopted after a reduced procedure - and I said, the first ones that we also support. As far as the biggest threat is concerned, the lawmaker himself wrote that the Fund will depend on the state budget after 2012. The Fund is definitely reduced by revenue, one part already being these concessions. As far as concession fees are concerned, we see in the change that took place at the time of the adoption of the law, when the concession fee now binds to the price of wood, which is 7% of the price of wood, but not more than 45% of the total concession, that this is a better solution, so we did not actively oppose this solution. However, we see a major problem in this threat, which the Fund has in the form of requests from these denationalisation beneficiaries for land mismanagement. It seems incomprehensible to us that 10% of these forests are also being paid from the Fund. Therefore, in some thorough consideration of this anomaly, it is likely necessary to remove them and to adopt them in a law that would be adopted by normal procedure, not by these solutions. Here we see that this is a financial threat to the Fund and if the Fund does not have its own resources, which is totally unacceptable to have 200,000 hectares of forest, 50,000 hectares of agricultural land become this fund a financial dependent on the good will of the government and Parliament. We believe that the error that has now been introduced into this law is also a regulation that has so far been for the calculation of the concession fee, with more active control, which, according to the Government's assurances, will now be carried out by these foresters who will go from the Forestry Institute to the Fund, would probably also arise if something were to change in the calculation, the method of calculating the concession in 2016, once the concession has been redistributed. Here we see some manko. The master's section - and the petition was signed. The first to be signed is an expert member of the LDS Group of Members, which is why the individual who would like to take advantage of himself - I don't know what anyone wanted to say. However, as far as one error is concerned, it is also true that the Fund is still using the name "fund", because the Court of Auditors, which has been very significant lately in Slovenia, has already written that the word "fund" should have been used. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Get out of the way. [[...]] From the title, so I'm afraid we won't have any instructions from the Court of Auditors again in about a month after the Minister's replacement. This could thus be regulated in one of the thorough reviews of these laws and in the preparation of the new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u49	Mr. Bogovich, thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, Minister and colleague! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a novel Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, once again, which has aroused a lot of attention and debates and has caused some quite poor will. Here I am thinking mainly of the Chamber of Agriculture and the Council of State, which considered the proposal of the novel completely unacceptable. On the other hand, in the DeSUS Group, we still believe that this is a proposal that brings good solutions and greater transparency to the operation of the Fund, and that it is for those who have been able to take advantage of this lack of transparency and poor scrutiny for all eternity. Since it is a proposal that will enable the Fund to function more effectively, better regulate the property records and return the building land to the municipalities, we will support it in the DeSUS Group. As we have anticipated, already in the process of receiving the novelty, for individual stakeholders, the most disturbing provisions governing the transfer of unpaved buildings from the Fund to municipalities, the planned transfer of several foresters from the Forestry Institute to the Fund, the substantial share of concessions that the Fund will have to leave to the municipalities in the future, and so on. The fact is that the largest state property represented the agricultural and forestry areas combined by the Fund, so it is in the interest of many that the fund continues to operate intransparency, which, of course, allows some to make a fortune at the expense of overpriced or overpriced land or land sold. However, since our assessment of the novel will lead to greater transparency in the operation of the Fund and since the government will be obliged to report at least once a year to the National Assembly on the work of the Fund, we will once again support the proposal of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 34 or at the latest at 21.25. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. At its 14th extraordinary meeting on 23 December 2009, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Motor Vehicle Tax Act be re-elected before the announcement. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Bojan Kekc, to explain the Council's request.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u52	Mr. President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Have a nice hello to you all. The National Council of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act does not support it. In our view, the law has only financial and not environmental effects, which it is intended to be intended for. The main concerns that led us to this decision are the following. With a tax rate of 1% to 13%, which has been progressively taxed against the price of the vehicle, this new tax increases from 1% to 31% according to CO2 emissions by also introducing a transitional period. With the new tax, we will unload the richer layer and additionally load the medium and slightly lower layer. The purchase of a new or used vehicle will be very difficult for many people. Especially in times of crisis, this does not seem to be an appropriate measure. The second point is that vehicles with diesel engines will be substantially more taxed, although they do not have major discharges from petrol, but the new tax is in no way affecting the new taxation of freight vehicles, which we know to be the largest contaminants of our atmosphere. The following matter, even very illogical, is taxed by an electric car. In Western Europe, the purchase of such vehicles is subsidised, and the specific information I received from Renault is that the state of France subsidises such purchases of EUR 5,000. In Renault's presentation, Slovenia is still a gray fox on the map of Europe, concerning the pleasantness and benefits of purchasing an electric vehicle. This law should remove this gray fox, and it doesn't. The thing that has disturbed us, too, is that motor bikes are being retaxed. There has been a very absurd situation here, when our own industry, called the specific company Tomos from Kopra, is put in a very awkward position. This is because the two-stroke engines are significantly more taxed than the four-stroke engines. Nevertheless, the two-stroke engines produced by Tomos have comparable releases to the four-stroke engines purchased or imported from China, Taiwan and the Far East. We believe that this is certainly not a right measure at this time of crisis to put our own industry in an unequal position. The final summary would be that, in the State Council, we believe that this law does not follow the objectives and meaning of green reform, but only to fill the budget at the expense of the medium and lower layers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, the Council of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the extension of the 13th session of 18.1.2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the request of the Council of State for a readjustment on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Motor Vehicle Tax, a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the 12th meeting of the National Assembly on 18.12.2009. At the request of the State Council, opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were forwarded to the Committee for its consideration. It is clear from the conclusion of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the requirement includes a substantive question relating solely to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime, which goes beyond the scope of the tasks provided for in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is therefore not defined by the Legislative and Legal Service as regards the requirement of the State Council. It follows from the request of the Council of State that the basic objectives of the law in question do not actually follow the law. While the environmental protection concerns are exposed, the law mainly refers to middle-class car buyers and captures the bulk of that population. According to this assessment, the aim of the text is, firstly, to increase the tax collection of motor vehicle sales tax, which is confirmed by an estimate of approximately EUR 20 million of the expected increase in tax revenues under this heading. At the same time, the regulation particularly affects motorists for whom such a tax is introduced in a new way, while taking into account the effects on the environment, is not a proportionate rate of taxation of passenger vehicles. The presentation of the request at the meeting of the Committee indicated that the environmental note of the text was not so noticeable and there was a clear increase in taxes on the basis of the progressive scales introduced. In particular, it seems illogical to increase taxes on diesel vehicles, the inclusion of electric vehicles, the non-inclusion of freight vehicles and the disproportionate or higher taxation of the two-stroke engines of domestic producers compared to the taxation of the four-stroke engines of foreign importers. On those grounds, the text adopted shall be re-examined. On the basis of the findings of the opinion of the Government, however, the findings of the State Council are unfounded. The text follows the basic political consensus adopted at the global level of the European Union on emergency measures to limit adverse or environmental and environmental consequences. Since the so-called Green Tax Reform is an integral part of the operational programme for the preparation of the above-mentioned measures or the Motor Vehicle Tax Act is the first of the envisaged measures in our country, the environmental aspect is considered to be expressed to the same extent as fiscal. While the impact of the changes on retail prices will be the largest in the medium-ranked vehicle group, the price increase is likely to be lower than the purchase discounts. In addition, only the tax on motor vehicles with markedly high adverse emissions increases substantially and without a previous period. Untaxed engines, motorcycles and three and quadricycles have contributed equally to pollution, so there is no reason for such exemption from taxation. Also from the explanation given by the representative of the Government at the committee meeting, it is clear that passenger vehicles represent one of the key pollution factors in our country, while at the same time the signed Kyoto Protocol additionally obliges us to take an appropriate analogous approach to the normative area. Thus, the State Council's statement on the imposition of tax burdens under an apparent environmental orientation does not hold up the claim that, as a potential buyer of the most taxed vehicle, the law primarily affects the medium layer. Basically, the text follows the decision to buy cheaper cars with smaller releases, but with a variety of open options, the final choice remains on the customer's side. In the light of the progress of the tax scales, which has already been repeatedly explained in the table by the Government, a lower tax rate for smaller and projected gradual increases for larger contaminants is included in the text in order to reduce the possibility of tax evasion or double taxation. In the light of previous findings, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to re-confirm the law in question. In conclusion, the Committee voted on the following opinion: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act is appropriate. That opinion was not adopted because it was not voted for by the majority of all members of the Committee, 6 of which voted "yes" and 3 "against". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Lycar. I give my word to a representative of the government, mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance for reasons of opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable present. In my presentation, I would like in particular to touch on the fundamentals of the Council of State in relation to the proposed law. The claim that the law does not actually follow the declared objectives, since under the cover of the green tax reform, it imposes an additional burden primarily on the middle ranking of cars and motors, and on the other hand, freight vehicles, which are the largest road contaminants, are not affected at all. This claim - I think it's too flat. Why? As already stated in the report of the parent working body, personal traffic in Slovenia represents a very large contaminant. Approximately 40% of all side missions in the country are produced in transport, of which 60% are carried out in person. The introduction of a scale based on discharges and not only on Kubatura is clearly one of the key elements of the introduction of a green tax reform. The claim that some layers or middle layers of the population will be affected is absolutely insurmountable. In all price classes you have available or have available cars with smaller or larger releases and the purpose of this law is to change the habits of the population, and also to influence manufacturers to decide to buy a car that is cheaper and causes fewer releases. Let me illustrate with a concrete example. The car, a petrol vehicle in price class 15,400 euros: 125 grams per kilometer; the new tax will amount to 154 euros during the transitional period, after the end of the transitional period of 231 euros, now amounts to 1078 euros. The same price of a vehicle with a discharge of 160 grams per kilometre; in the transitional period it will be 847 euros and after the end of the transitional period of 924 euros; that is to say lower than that currently in force. And with the release of 194 grams per kilometer, the burden will indeed increase, to EUR 1520 and after the transition period to 2002 euros. If I look at it as a whole, then about 50% of cars under the new law will be able to lower tax prices, about 30% of cars will go up in low prices and only 20% will go up in prices for the remaining 20%. So the impact on the social situation of the population definitely cannot be excessively strong here. Let me stress one more thing. Marriage doesn't just bring new scales. The law also provides some solutions that reduce tax evasion and eliminate double taxation. On the other hand, it is correct to point out that this law actually means the introduction or continuation of the tax that we pay when we buy a new car, and there is no levy that we pay each year, which means that it has the effect of doing so much less. I therefore propose that you re- back up the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Mr Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u58	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, representative of the Council of State, honourable Member, fellow Members. Today, at the request of the National Council, we are again deciding on the adoption of the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which is the result of an increasing consensus on the necessity of comprehensive measures, with which we also need to substantially restrict or gradually eliminate the consequences of our behaviour towards the environment in Slovenia, in particular our atmosphere. The fact that we also need to stress this time, and that many, including the Council of State, are not aware enough, is that cars or vehicles with internal combustion engines pollute the environment and destroy our health. Therefore, already a year ago, the EU started to take measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from cars. On the side of the supply of motor vehicles, there is thus an obligation under which producers will have to reduce their average carbon dioxide emissions by 130 grams per kilometre by 2015 and by 2020 to 25 grams per kilometre. On the other hand, on the demand side, most Member States have already committed to carbon dioxide emissions in one way or another, so by introducing an environmental criterion into this and other duties in Slovenia, we are already far behind the most environmentally responsible countries within the EU. According to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the findings of the State Council on the adoption of the novel are unconvincing and inappropriate. In its opinion, the Government replied to them in an expert, reasoned and reasoned manner. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we fully agree with these answers and support them and would not repeat them now. However, we would like to point out that, in our view, the environmental aspect of the adopted novelty is more important than fiscal. We regret, however, that the State Council mistakenly believes that the environmental aspect or environmental protection is merely a cover for the additional tax burden of the medium layer. It is perfectly correct that the law is based on three criteria, based on the amount of greenhouse gas release CO2 which is the basis for the determination of tax rates and, indirectly, through compliance with Eurostandard emissions, also on the amount of PEM10 solid particles released and on nitrogen oxides. These three criteria are directly linked to air pollution, which on the one hand causes global warming and on the other hand harms our health. According to recent credible analyses in Slovenia only due to excessive concentrations of particulate matter in the air, about 1,700 people die prematurely each year. Therefore, according to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it is high time for us to start changing our consumer habits with regard to cars where strong feelings are still being released, as well as with the implementation of this novel, we begin to promote the purchase of environmentally more suitable vehicles. In doing so, we would like to point out a medium slightly less interesting measure of possible increase in tax rates for motor vehicles with engines, with lower emission standards than Euro3, by which we will try to minimise the import of used motor vehicles with technologically outdated engines, which pose a major threat to excessive pollution by particulate matter and nitrogen oxides. Finally, in the LDS, we also understood the creation and adoption of this law as a search for a balance between environmental, fiscal and economic objectives. We estimate that in a democratic, professional and reasoned debate, we have found this balance in many of the participants with the adopted novel. The law represents an important step towards introducing an environmental criterion into our duties, which must be followed by others. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will be amending the Tax Law on Motor Vehicles as one of the first measures aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, PEM10 particulate matter and nitrogen oxides, including in re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u60	Nicely greeted! In response to the Council of State and the re-decision proposal, three arguments could be found above all, which would make the amendment inappropriate. The first would be too steep a vertical scale, where the most polluting vehicles would be overtaxed against the least polluting. The second argument is that the middle layer and the third argument are too heavy to impose taxation on bicyclists as well. All three arguments are legitimate, but they are the product of a subjective assessment where someone can determine whether or not the matter is true. Because if we look at it from another point of view, we can come to different conclusions based on different arguments. The claim that the scale is too vertical means that we should therefore reduce the taxation of the most polluting vehicles, which means that we should reduce the difference in taxation between more polluting and less polluting. Therefore, the taxation of the least polluting vehicles should be relatively increased. Such a change of attitude is unacceptable for those who care about the environment. On the other hand, the argument that the middle class is being overtaxed is due to the mental link that the middle class simply buys middle class pollutants. That's not true either. Someone who is supposed to be in the middle of the social class may also decide on a different vehicle, and in particular may choose a medium-, high- and low-grade vehicle, with low-releases; an organic vehicle. And then he's going to pay that much less tax, because vehicles are no longer distributed by value or by vehicle classes as we know them, but by emissions. And we find many vehicles that are eco-friendly, using eco-technology, and therefore, regardless of whether they are medium- or even high-level vehicles, are by emissions of a lower rank. Then we will encourage the middle, upper or lower class to purchase, buy and use vehicles that pollute less. Third argument to tax engines, of course, is true, because so far there has been no tax, but - before or during meetings - this category of vehicles should also be regarded as irrefutable [[In part, less than vehicles]] Contaminated, including included in the system of taxation on motor vehicles. In the case of bicyclists, the issue of carbon dioxide is repeatedly raised and we conclude, therefore, that the currently proposed taxation is too high. However, not all the other emission criteria, particulate matter, hydrocarbons and so on, which in the city are increasingly contributing to the pollution and health of our people, are not respected. We therefore believe that the proposed taxation is also appropriate here. Finally, as an example of taxation, the Slovenian company Tomos is also proposing a high tax burden. It should be stressed that this is not the case, since Tomos manufactures mostly bicycles with auxiliary engines that are not registered because they can do up to 25 km/h. As a result, such vehicles, bicycles with auxiliary engines, will not be subject to any tax on motor vehicles at all. Therefore, it is unfair to say that Tomos is heavily burdened, since the vast majority of his products will not be part of the tax at all. Let's be honest and say that. After all these conclusions, we Social Democrats are determined to take the first step, not the only one, not the sufficient, but an important first step towards a green tax policy. This is a path that will, on the one hand, mean a number of other measures that may disturb someone, but it will also mean a measure that will promote the positive environmental behaviour of our people. Social Democrats think this is the right way, so we will strongly support this law once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Istok Podkrižnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary, representative of the Council of State, present! The proposed rate of taxation on new motor vehicles represents less sales and consequently less budgetary revenue. We are confident that this introduction of DMV with the proposed rates of taxation, in addition to the negative impact for representatives and authorised sellers, will mean less sales and higher prices for buyers, which would even reduce tax revenue, as the business with motor vehicles will undoubtedly fall significantly. Given the current economic situation, it is estimated that sales of new passenger and motor vehicles in 2010 will amount to an even lower percentage compared to 2009. Already these numbers significantly change the calculations. We do not see any possibility that representatives and sellers could cover DMV costs on their own. There is an urgent increase in sales prices, making new vehicles too expensive. In the practice of the last decade, our market has always proved to be extremely sensitive and has an impact on price change. Additional negative effects of the proposal. Relatively cheaper used motor vehicles consequently mean less safe and environmentally friendly vehicles. The new proposal would be more taxing new two-wheelers - due to a used vehicle, which is relatively more competitive than new ones, which is not in line with the environmental orientation of the proposal, since used and older vehicles are less environmentally friendly and less safe for the user. Therefore, it would be more logical to tax used vehicles that do not meet environmental requirements. The business of all representatives and authorised sellers will become unprofitable, profit from business and profit taxes will no longer be expected. With certainty, we can expect the collapse of officials and the collapse of most authorised sellers, the dismissal of staff and the uncertain future of employees in the industry itself, the inability to invest in the safety of motorists and motorists, marketing and quality sales services. We reject these changes because of the negative effects on budgetary revenues, only the environment, the safety of motorists and motorists and additional problems in the business of all officials and sellers who legally operate and pay all the prescribed duties. Therefore, we will not support the draft law in the SDS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Aloyz Potočni will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you. Dear President, your honors are here! The re-decision requirement is based on the obvious fact that the law does not actually follow the stated objectives, since it imposes additional burden on the middle class of cars and engines purchased by the medium layer under the cover of tax reform. On the other hand, the law of freight cars, which are the largest contaminants on the road, does not touch at all. In real estate - The new policy is once again reminded that transport is one of the major energy consumers and pollutants with greenhouse gases. Just a few details. In the last decade and a half, transport has taken first place among energy sectors as it consumes more than 30% of total energy in Slovenia. Transport energy consumption has increased by 86% since 1992 and continues to increase. The energy used in transport is almost exclusively based on fossil fuels, resulting in an ever-increasing increase in greenhouse gas emissions. In the recent period, transport has been characterised mainly by the rapid growth of road freight, notably transit transport, a large increase in the number of passenger vehicles, the prevailing short-distance driving and, consequently, a significant reduction in public passenger transport. Many experts, NGOs and the media have invested considerable energy in recent years in raising consumers' awareness of the environmental burden caused by cars and traffic at all. In the last year, many manufacturers in their advertising campaigns have also promoted the reduction of CO2 emissions from their cars. However, promotion actions did not appear to have a special sales effect. Even somewhat ironically, it could be said that vehicles that are less burdensome to the environment represent a prior choice of buyers' error as a serious market approach for sellers. An analysis of purchasing habits in Slovenia shows that customer awareness actions have limited reach and car salesmen also have limited interest. The move is, therefore, primarily a country which, in our view, must take measures as soon as possible to stimulate the purchase of more rational vehicle models, since the automotive industry is far from making the most of the technological potential that already exist. However, the time for slow adjustment of strategies is running out. The amendment of the Motor Vehicle Tax Law could also be referred to as part of the so-called green public financial reform, which is one of the often mentioned solutions for environmental degradation arising from incorrect market signals. Its aim is to reform the public finance system and the subsidy policy by shifting the tax burden from taxes to taxes on the environment, namely the use of energy or other sources and raw materials, environmentally hazardous substances and products, while also eliminating environmentally harmful subsidies. Taking into account the above, we will re-support the law in Really - New Policy as a suitable measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u66	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. In the previous meeting, the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act certainly changes the way motor vehicles are taxed towards their ecological burden. So simply put: vehicles that are more burdensome to the environment will be taxed at a higher rate. There is no doubt that this mode of taxation contributes to reducing environmental pollution. This, by all odds, no one's objecting. The question, however, was also pointed out by the Council of State in its request for re-decision on this law, whether these decisions of the law are following the basic objective arising from the interpretation of the law, namely environmental protection, and whether the solutions are intended solely for filling the budget register for motor vehicle taxes. Such doubts stem from the explanation of the re-decision requirement. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the law follows the basic objective, since the most visible changes are noticeable in the taxation of those vehicles belonging to the group of vehicles that most burden the environment. We also agree with the taxation of those vehicles that have so far not been covered by the taxation system. We believe that there is no reason to distinguish between cars and engines, as they also contribute to a greater volume of harmful emissions. This is such a major reason that we do not consider such a distinction to be relevant. The sense that the bill-maker follows only the purpose of the charged budget is not so much an argument that he could be attached to the group of Members. The DeSUS Members of the idea of resolving this law, which we are re-declaring today, support in particular in the light of the efforts to protect and maintain a healthy living environment, and accordingly we will vote today. So, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. For the first time, it is strange that today the majority and the Government deny the State Council's claims, which are actually copied from the Government's claims in the explanation of the law. "The suspension of the collection of the tax on sales of motor vehicles is the objective.", it says in the State Council. The government says: "The overall financial impact of the law is therefore 19.4 million euro of additional revenue for 2010; 2011 - 28 million additional revenue." That's right, isn't it?Oh, That's the point. Hold it! That's the point. Next thing, you say, my colleague just said that this is not an argument for exploiting green tax reform, that there will be embezzlements and that there will be profits. I would believe that if, and of course, the Slovenian National Party believed that if we wanted to achieve a green reform, in addition to the tax, the law would increase excise duties and fuel and, in crisis cases, the pollution caused by motor vehicles would ban all traffic. Every morning and evening I drive on the highway to Ljubljana, driving only through the emergency belt because on the right side are convoys of trucks - convoys! - registrations: Moldova, Romania, Bulgaria, Russia, Slovakia, Serbia, Azerbaijan and so on. There are more, I experience and count every day, almost as many as personal cars. They're the biggest contaminants. What have we done for specifically these foreign transits that are most polluting? Nothing. So the second time there's no argument that we really want to do something for the environment. Third time. The fact is, even the motor bike, even the one that doesn't need to have the helmets that it is, I think Tomos is doing them, or he's starting to do them, I don't know exactly; it's true that he's polluting them. But how disproportionately disproportionate is the tax rate for such a bicycle against a passenger car! This is not right, it is not fair, it is one proof that this law may be written with a good desire to start, to do something on the green tax reform, but in fact, at least so much to be discovered and let's face it, this law is written precisely in order to increase the tax collection of the title. The most interesting thing is that the Government itself recognises in the explanation of the law, which is the most important, the fact cited by the State Council. He says: "With a significant reduction in the sales volume of motor vehicles due to rising prices, smaller financial effects are expected." So, the government also recognises that the result will be a smaller consequence of this, because this means higher prices to reduce vehicle sales, as a result it will be possible to reduce people's employment in the manufacturing and sales segment of cars and as a result, this is probably what we all learned, we see this spiral going down, less people, less money, less purchases, less taxes and finally it's just a dot. We are in the Slovenian National Party to take care of a cleaner and better environment in the field of transport as well. The first would be supported if we now adopted, say, a law on the introduction of electric cars and so on. We cannot change people’s thinking by law. I respect what the Secretary of State has said that we want to teach people so much that they will drive less and live more differently. But with the law of this mind, unfortunately, we can't change. As always in the Slovenian National Party [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] We will not back this law on amendments and amendments to the law, or we will be vetoed by the Council of State. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 34 or at the latest at 21.25 a.m. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - Redecision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Games for Happiness. At its 14th meeting, on 23 December, the Council of State requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Boris Šuštaršič to explain the Council's request.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members, distinguished Madam Secretary of State Kamnarev. The Council of State has decided to veto this amendment of the gambling law, mainly due to the incomplete content of Article 3.A. This article newly states that the organizers of online gambling are so far the organizers of classical gambling Loteri Slovenije and Sports Lottery and casinos. However, it is not provided for in this Article for the purposes of obtaining concessions from these online gambling. In particular, the problem is that online gambling is increasingly on the rise because of the increasing use of the computer in humans and it undermines the existing classical games, which are primarily used to finance disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. From this we can conclude that, in fact, this law systematically introduces unstable or long-term stable funding for these organisations, as has been the case in the Slovenian space over the past four decades. However, there are some other unpleasant circumstances of the current arrangement, such as when we add up all the burdens of the organizer in the casino of the classic game, this event will be burdened with about 33% and both classical gambling operators, who have mainly fuelled the financing of all three types of organisations, with 43%. That is to say, we have a situation where the same entities with the same economic activity do not have the same conditions. But that's not all! In the Slovenian Lottery Supervisory Board, we have also found that if the player wins a prize in the online game organizer in the casino over 300 euros, he will pay nothing in the state budget, while the player in the classic gambling organizer will pay 15% of the tax. This is said to be a recommissioned player to play in a casino, which for only about 2.2% finance the needs of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. There is another inconvenience, namely that the Slovenian regime is very strict with regard to the player's entry into online games, and because this severity is so high, it actually directs players to foreign organizers. This is, of course, a damaged Slovenian state as well as the beneficiaries of these funds. This unfortunate arrangement seems to me to have resulted from the fact that, since the existence of a independent Slovenian state, under all governments, we have been involved by representatives of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations in the drafting of this legislation, but this time we have been consistently excluded. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, we believe that the veto is justified, and I ask you to consider it as a legal constitutional instrument designed to re-examine the arguments for individual regulation in justified cases. I think we have a general interest that this arrangement is such that it is in the interest of, I would say, state interests in terms of managing integrated social policies as well as in favour of users, in disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, which are somehow in one form or another about 300 thousand and of course their lives are essential. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] depending on this funding. [[...]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Šuštaršič, representative of the State Council. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to a member of the committee, Mr Bogdan Čepič, to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the request of the Council of State at its 13th meeting, on 14 January 2010. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which does not define, in relation to the requirement under its powers, the reasons for the State Council, which are partly procedural, partly of the substantive nature. With regard to the indications of the State Council on the legal dispute between provisions 3a. The service points out, however, that the basic principle of telecommunications gambling has been in place since 2001 and that the amendment of the current law only complements non-essential elements. The arrangements for the designation of both concessionaires and recipients of funds are also maintained, since online gambling is not a specific type of gambling, but merely a way of adapting them, which the State Council did not take into account when considering the law submitted. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Government, which is not based on an assessment of the reasons for the request. The opinion also sets out the arguments for such an assessment. Among other things, the government believes that the adopted novelty in the field of classical gambling also eliminates obstacles and allows the organizers of classical gambling to develop in a sustainable and stable manner, with which classical gambling provides an important source of funding for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. The representative of the National Council, Mr Boris Šuštaršič, pointed out, among others, the problem of the increasing dominance of Internet gambling, which, according to the practice of some other countries, is being undermined by classical gambling. It therefore estimates that the real expectations of the likely reallocation of this income and the destabilisation of the public financing of the two foundations are very stable for several decades. A concrete proposal from the proposer is therefore required to make 3a. The Article also had to provide for concessions to be applied to disabled and humanitarian organisations and sports organisations. The initial presentation of the request was concluded by the representative of the Council of State with the expectation that in the event of the rejection of the already adopted law, the Government would probably be able to settle these issues satisfactorily within a very short period of time by means of a proposal for an amendment to the current law following an urgent procedure. Otherwise, it is expected that representatives of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations will likely apply their requirements in other legal ways. In an add-on presentation of the opinion of the Government, her representative stressed, inter alia, that it was not a rejection of the opinion of the Council of State or of the disability, humanitarian and sports organisations financed by this money. However, the Government’s position is rebuffed to the reasons why the State Council opposes the adoption of the novel. The fact is that online gambling as well as other gambling is divided into classic and special. Money from special games gets the country, municipalities and in a small part also foundations. The money from the classic online games is distributed in such a way that it does not change in any other classical games and arrangements on the basis of the adopted novel on this subject. There is also no change in the conditions for online gambling. Therefore, according to the Government's assessment, the presumption of applicants is wrong, some justify a negative opinion. Without discussion, the Committee voted on the following opinion: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling is appropriate. The Committee did not adopt that opinion because it was not voted on by the majority of the members. Only 6 members voted in favour, 3 against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the law to explain the opinion. Mrs. Kamnar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to focus in my response or response to the opinion of the Council of State on the key issue raised by the representative of the Council of State, namely that the law does not properly address the issue of gambling concessions. We don't think that's true. We have already said at the beginning of the consideration of this law that the Government is preparing a strategy for the development of gambling, and on this basis it will be proposed in the following year or even this year a complete overhaul of the legal regulation of this topic. Our purpose in correcting this law was to remedy some of the shortcomings and not to address the issues carefully enough. For this reason, we have regulated gambling, which will take place through electronic devices, which is true online gambling, in exactly the same way as the regulated so far of classical or special gambling. So it is also to define the Internet gambling as a classic gambling game, or as a special gambling game, to obtain a concession and, of course, on this basis, the concession is also distributed for the same purposes and in the same way as for other gambling. As a result, we believe that the law has consistently resolved this issue. Of course, we allow a debate on whether the law would apply in the future when the law was recast to resolve this issue in a different way. However, given that we wanted to go with the minimum necessary corrections to this law, we consider that the existing solution is consistent, that it ensures equal treatment of all gambling and that there are also no organizations that have explicitly expressed their interest in obtaining funds through the Council of State. I therefore propose that the National Assembly support this law so that we can prepare a complete overhaul of such legislation as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the Emissary Groups. Mr Luka Juri will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u76	Good-bye! Social Democrats support the law as a whole or as a whole, because it brings many important new elements. For example, there is a significantly greater and broader possibility of self-prohibition or greater potential for treatment of dependence on gambling. In the area of online games, it introduces a regulation that makes sense, but, as the Secretary of State has said, leaves behind, and this is also the opinion of the Social Democrats, an open opportunity to find a better solution. Not because the meaning of the current solution would be bad, but because the very nature of the network, the Internet, is such that it allows such flexibility and the possibility of circumventing the law, that many times in many areas what is written on paper will prove to be insufficient. Access to online games is, regardless of what we will write into the law, it is technically possible to perform from any computer in Slovenia, to any website to which access from Slovenia should be prohibited. It is enough that before you go to the website, if you want to log in, for example, you go to www.anonymus.com, you enter the domain to which you want to access anonymously, not as a Slovenian user, and you will be able to easily access it, as the system will not know that you represent Slovenia. So there are shortcomings for which we can, of course, because the end of the day is the only thing we can blame, we have a responsibility to the law, but on the other hand, the nature of the Internet itself is such that it needs continuous updating and therefore the promise for the Social Democrats that we will soon get a new law is sufficient to support the current novel, aware of all the other advantages that we would lose if we did not support the novels. As previously said, particularly in the area of treatment of addiction and the possibility of self-prevention to lose this opportunity to implement it would be harmful. For this reason, the Social Democrats expect us to get a new law as soon as possible, in which we will also have more modern solutions in the area of online games, and in this meantime we are convinced that the novel is more appropriate as proposed than if it were not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. I will start by saying that, as in the first reading of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support this law. The area of gambling in Slovenia is governed by the Act on Gambling, which was adopted in 1995 and amended in 2001 and 2003. Under the provisions of the Gambling Act, gambling is the exclusive right of the Republic of Slovenia and gambling can only be organised in Slovenia by companies that obtain concessions from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments should primarily neutralise the consequences of the economic crisis, which has a strong impact on the revenues of both gambling companies and on their ability to pay all their obligations. The crisis of this moment also proves the problems of all concessionaires regardless of their size and geographical location. Some concessionaires already have liquidity problems and are fighting for their existence, and jobs are also at risk, and consequently the revenues of local communities and the state budget. The exacerbation of domestic and foreign competition in neighbouring countries, as well as online substitutes for special gambling in recent years, have also led to a significant decline in the profit margins in the implementation of gambling. The existing special casino duty is based on the 2001 profitability assessment and market structure. However, the situation of the 2009 sector is inadequately different, which should also be taken into account in this law, particularly because the economic crisis has not yet been reduced. The general objectives of the law do not respond to the fundamental development problems of Slovenian gaming. They are not based on current economic and statistical data and economic and business indicators. They are not based on current scientific research and studies. They're not following trends in this sector. The proposal limits the activities of casinos and favours the development of the private company Sport lottery, d.d. It is still possible to grant concessions without invitation to tender. The monopoly of a private company in sports betting and online gambling is strengthened. This law also allows money to be drained into tax havens. The political management of boards of companies in the field of gambling is strengthened. And last but not least, it does not follow the current conditions and trends in the world. In the current regulation, gambling can only be arranged for companies with a concession to arrange classical gambling, namely the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery, which are companies with a concession to arrange special gambling in casinos. The Ministry would also protect from domestic competition in the area of online gambling by amending the gaming law, which is again in decision making, the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports lottery. The arrangements under which online gambling is allowed only to the mentioned organizers of classical and special gambling are maintained. In addition, the monopoly on sports betting would be further protected. The law provides for a reduction of the rights of casinos, as it prevents them from arranging sports betting. The new important source of earnings has been taken from the casinos and, above all, the Government is preventing the development of a competitive market through its actions. Thus, Slovenian internet gambling providers will not be able to compete in the international space, as Internet games are marketed globally, regardless of any attempt to limit them. Greater transparency and competition would also bring more money into the budget or to finance disability and sports organisations. In addition, Slovenia must take into account the fact that legislation has already been liberalised in neighbouring countries, both in Croatia, Hungary and in Montenegro and Serbia. Construction of major tourist and gaming complexes is also planned, which will have a long-term impact on our economy due to their proximity. The legislation has also been partially liberalised by the Republic of Italy, which allows for limited adjustment of gambling in guest restaurants as well. All the foregoing convinces us that it is not reasonable to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members will really support the law, but only on condition that this law will be amended as soon as possible in the part that is problematic for us, and this is in Article 4 of the Law. After all, we also want to listen to the dilemmas raised by the authorising officer when he notes that certain abuses, inappropriate interpretations, could actually occur in Article 4, when he tries to ensure the transparency of online gambling - and the Government has rightly paid due attention to concessions that are necessary for greater online transparency of gambling. In Article 4, however, there is a clear indication or provision that all non-concession games will also be banned online. The purpose is certainly understandable and we support it. However, the way this ban is implemented can be a huge trap for the free use of the Internet. Therefore, we believe that it is imperative to amend Article 4 in the amendment of the law and to prevent any abuses. As some experts have pointed out, there could be ineffective implementation of Article 4 on the one hand, because, as has been said many times, technology allows for bypassing such control and such transparency. On the other hand, if we want maximum efficiency, there is a danger of developing invasive technologies that pose a real threat to the free use of the Internet. As a result of these dilemmas, we commit ourselves, as a group of Members, to insist and ensure by both ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Higher Education and Technology, to define, clarify and amend Article 4 as soon as possible, that this law, which is good and would be harmful to reject and stop because of this inadequacy, would in fact not become more transparent and reliable by amendment. The Zares Group will support the law, of course in the face of the dilemmas expressed and with the expectations expressed, and in the face of the commitment to bring about the amendment of the law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Gambling, statistically proven, brings many social, family and personal problems and tragedies. On the other hand, gambling as an economic activity is an important source of income for the state and local communities. It is therefore essential that gambling takes place in an orderly and controlled environment in order to ensure consumer protection and public order. Due to the "controversial" nature of gambling activities, it is important that particular care is given to participants in gambling or players. To prevent as much as possible their dependence on gambling and the related consequences for them, their families and society. In addition to being an important source of income, the law obliges the organisers to create certain funds and concessions and concessions for good purposes, which are referred to as the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Sports Foundation. It is almost too much to point out that the activity of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations is of exceptional public importance, especially in a country where social activity must sometimes replace the function of a country that cannot do so. We believe that the current stability of public funding from this source for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations is a legitimate concern, as the Slovenian organizers of classical gambling are expected to be able to withstand significantly fewer concession fees for good purposes as a result of the solutions to this proposal of the law, which is referred to as the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Sports Foundation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore abstain in the vote on the veto, allowing for the preparation of amendments to the law or new law, which will also address the problems outlined in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u83	Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State, as well as you, colleagues and colleagues. As has been said many times today, the reason for the re-application of the Law on Gambling to be reopened is the irreparability of Article 3A in the opinion of the State Council. The Council of State considers that, under this Article, the law redefines the organisers of online gambling. This type of gambling should no longer be subject to the financing of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, but could only be organised by companies. Both the opinion of the Government and our Legal and Legislative Service follow the position that this article does not essentially interfere with the established system of gambling by means of telecommunications, which has been in force since 2001. Are online gambling a special type of gambling or is it just one of the options for gambling? This does not, in essence, affect the arrangements for determining the concessionaire or the arrangements for recipients of funds, which we consider to be clear. This is one of the ways in which gambling can be arranged and possibly for a new species, but whether such an arrangement under which the financing of disabled, humanitarian organisations is so neglected or exempted is appropriate. Such organisations are convinced that they are not, so it might be advisable to consider supporting the veto at this point. There is another dilemma that Mr Igor Belnot pointed out in his comments, perhaps a little late, but I ask if it was too late. However, the latter is not an article which the Council of State considers to be controversial, but a provision relating to the prohibition of receiving or transmitting access to websites through which online gambling can be attended, to the prohibition of advertising, to all those persons who do not have a government concession. That, perhaps in this part of the law, there is a constitutional dispute, as the Information Commissioner also pointed out in her non-binding opinion, because it is precisely this measure of restricting access to online gambling that is considered to be constitutionally controversial, both in terms of the constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of conduct and in terms of ensuring the confidentiality of the public. In short, the DeSUS Group recognises and assesses that the Law on Amendments and Complementation of the Law on Gambling is not in line with the general public to the extent that it can receive unconditional support. However, it might be appropriate to distribute such comments a little longer and, of course, to include them in the law itself, if they are justified. In view of the said Members of the DeSUS at this time, unfortunately, we cannot say with certainty that we will support the law, nor can we say with certainty the opposite, so that we should vote against the law. Our decision will be taken and known after the debate, when we may hear another argument. Until then, we appeal to you, honourable Members and Members, to take note of these concerns and to express yourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! It is true that we leave the area of online gambling to the full discretion of the Minister of Finance. That is, a completely new exception takes place in the structure of the Gambling Act, so that it is realistically possible for each financial minister, in his mandate, to be able to judge and, according to his own opinion, to carry out a policy of financing for disabled and humanitarian organisations; here, the disabled are perfectly right. The concession fees derived from online gambling thus ensure the stability of financing of disabled and humanitarian organisations at their own discretion, which can also be often to the detriment of persons with disabilities. Now a lot of money is flowing to this address, so in the Slovenian National Party, we feel that such funds should be better distributed for direct humanitarian purposes to alleviate social problems. However, more assistance should also be provided to directly disadvantaged layers. The fact is that many municipalities in Slovenia are also promising their development potential from these concession fees and are planning a significant part of their revenue in their budgets as a revenue side. We find it hard to understand the country's goodwill to try to systematically settle these issues because we tax the casinos twice. For the first time with this direct concession tax, which is 47% taxed immediately, and the second time that 53% profit as income is taxed again. The concession fee is so, I'll say, in a way, quite large if we add all this up. And instead of promoting the development of tourism and gambling, because Slovenia has the advantage of developing it, and in order to step up with the offer, we may be doing injustice here to those who would like to invest in it. Here I would limit investments to the fact that an investor wishing to obtain a concession must be a real investor, must build some attribute in the city, must make a hotel or, I don't know, some suitable area for carrying out this activity, so that the space in this activity can also be acquired, and later, of course, would allow this activity to expand if it were in the government's position. With us, we allow some to just rent space, in fact only partly equip it, and then they can have the opportunity to make big profits without investing. In short, if we do not take into account coherent regional development and, of course, the development of tourism, and we will not impose on new investors to take this into account, there will also be no meaningful development in this area, and certainly development and interest will fall due to the fact that we have such income tax on this side. I am sure that this will make disability and humanitarian organisations all the more affected, as income will also be reduced from this heading. However, we must also commend the law that now governs the law in force, the amended law, also regulates the actual protection of minors and also treated on addiction. This was one of the positive things this law has brought, and it is also necessary to say that somehow we have also regulated the legal arrangements, that we have also properly regulated the tips in gambling activities. A few million euros have now been collected from the country, because these funds have simply not been shared among workers. If we weigh how positive it is and how negative it is, it is certain that there are still many things to fix in this law, especially with regard to concessions and benefits, it is also unacceptable for the disabled to leave the Minister’s judgment to the extent he gives or does not give. However, I would say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that the law must be brought to life, but that it should be amended as soon as possible by what the applicants have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Welcome to the Secretary of State and representatives of the Council of State! As is known, the State Council is 23. 12. Adopted a request for re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. The Council of State opposes or does not agree with the solutions in the law, which relate mainly to proposals and taking into account the proposals of the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery. They also point out that, in their view, there is also a dispute in Article 3a, which is intended to redefine online gambling organisers, which would be contrary to the current practice for funding the disadvantaged Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Sports Foundation. According to the Government's explanation, the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Gambling Act introduces the necessary corrections, in particular in the area of responsible gambling and control. For example, it removes the investment ban of the organiser in other legal entities and entrepreneurs and introduces a new possibility for the organizers of classical gambling to participate in a joint gambling game with other and foreign domestic operators. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we agree with the bill adopted, as it brings, in our view, appropriate changes and updates, but we are also aware that solutions are not always optimal in terms of the situation of gambling. However, for major changes, it would be necessary to amend the whole law, which must first wait for a new strategy in the field of gambling regulation. This is in preparation, so once again we call for the preparation of this strategy as soon as possible, which will be the basis for more fundamental changes and possible new conceptualization of the field of gambling, and then there will certainly be an opportunity and the possibility that these shortcomings, which are still observed in the law, will be rectified and remedied. We also take it seriously that they will be deprived of the FIHO Foundation and a sports foundation. Here we believe that they are not fully justified, as changes to the law maintain existing arrangements and will only allow online gambling to be adapted to those who have a concession for the permanent adaptation of classical gambling or for the adaptation of special games. The amendment of the law is simply about regulating online games and it is stipulated that online gambling is not a specific type of gambling, but only a different way of adapting gambling both classical and special. And that is certainly true in life and practice. Therefore, no different concessions for such games are foreseen and cannot be foreseen, and consequently online gambling is subject to the regime applicable to all other games. This simply means that, in order to organise online classical gambling, the same benefits are charged and the concession fee is fully intended to finance disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. Finally, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave the same opinion. Perhaps even the greatest observation comes from those who have not been alerted by the Council of State, those who point to restricting access to the Internet, which we believe should be reconsidered, for such a solution as is contained in Article 4 of the Law. Is this appropriate in terms of ensuring freedom of access to online content? On the other hand, take seriously the possibility of violating individual communication confidentiality. At the same time, we believe that the proposed law must be implemented in accordance with existing legislation and the Constitution, which means that users must be adequately protected. Here I would also draw attention to the many negative features of gambling. We also receive a letter and an initiative from Nova Gorica that treatment of gambling addicts should also be properly regulated. In 2008, more than 55 people were treated in this area. However, in the first three months of 2009, the number of these persons exceeded 40. This too should always be borne in mind when we talk about gambling, not just profit and money, but also negative consequences. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will make the same decision as the first time and we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 34th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 21.25. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the top of the agenda, this is a first-hand proposal for a law on the management of capital investments in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Helena Kamnar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Honorable present. Last July, the government adopted a public-owned corporate governance policy, which includes an active way of managing the country's capital investments. This policy is based on OECD guidelines and OECD principles on governance of state-owned enterprises. With this policy, the Government has also set out the objective of re-orienting the issue of managing the country's capital investments in a new way, in a manner comparable to those of other European Union countries. The existing system of capital investment management in Slovenia is characterised by the fact that there is large fragmentation across different sectors and the intertwining of sectoral policies with equity management. This often leads to irrational decisions on a case-by-case basis, and therefore it is all the more important that matters be resolved in a new way in this area. The lead in the formulation of legal solutions was that the country acts as an active and exemplary owner, which will ensure, in accordance with a clear and consistent ownership policy, that investment management is transparent and efficient and in the public interest. The State will not be involved in the conduct of the day-to-day operations of state-owned companies, but will leave this role to the management of companies and its supervisors. The proposed law sets out the principles under which capital investments must be made, the acts under which capital investments will be managed and the establishment of an organisation, namely capital investment management agencies. This law regulates its establishment, organisation, operation and, of course, jurisdiction. The law provides for two basic documents for the management to be carried out, namely a management strategy to be adopted by Dzbor for a period of at least three years, containing the country's development guidelines as the owner of individual companies, and for the specification of this strategy, which is an annual document, the so-called annual capital investment management plan, which will be the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Within the framework of the strategy and the annual management plan, the agency will have its own portfolio investment and strategic investment by prior agreement of the Government. In order to carry out the tasks of carrying out capital investments, an agency will be established as an independent and independent body with the status of a direct budgetary user, comparable to the status, say, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court and so on. Its body will adopt key acts of the Agency and adopt decisions on the management of capital investments, as well as the three-member Board of the Agency which will supervise the Agency's operations, and agree on certain capital investment management decisions that will otherwise be the responsibility of the Director. The Agency will be able to acquire capital investments on the basis of the adopted annual management plan and, on the other hand, it will be able to have capital investments in line with the approved and annual capital investment management plan. It is essential that ownership of property remains state-owned. So the agency will act in some sense as an agent of the state and not as a estranged owner of the property. The Agency will operate on the basis of a code that will specify the rules of operation. We estimate that after a public debate, the law will still be able to improve significantly and thus improve the overall functioning of the management of the state's financial assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u92	Dear colleague and respected colleague and other present! The law before us today is about managing Slovenia's capital investments. I think it is necessary to clarify first what management means within the meaning of this law. The term "management" in accordance with the provisions of this Act means "acquisition, replacement and sale and any other legal transaction whereby the holding of shares or shares of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to another legal or natural person". This will be done by an agency whose council will count the three members proposed by the President of the Government and appointed by the Government. The Government states Slovenia's entry into the OECD as the main reason for the adoption of the law and the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency. In doing so, the adoption of this law, according to the Government, is of crucial importance. Indeed, the OECD sets out the principles and guidelines for the management of state-owned enterprises and does not provide for the content or formal form of governance of state-owned enterprises. A comparative legal review also shows how this area is regulated by other countries annexed to the law by the Government attaches to this fact. The entry into the OECD therefore serves primarily as an alibi for the adoption of solutions that are harmful both to the State and to the citizens, and especially to the pensioners. In the National Assembly, we have already witnessed the deception that the OECD requires something from us. Not long ago, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Kos, the Anti-Corruption Commission, was addressed to the ER that the Mandate-Volution Commission must immediately adopt certain rules on the immunity procedure, if the OECD so requires. When a document was requested to request this and when this document was received, it was found that this is not the case and that the National Assembly already has these rules in place in its Rules of Procedure. The real purpose of the law is therefore to manage the staffing structure in state-owned enterprises even after the Pahor government has stepped down and, above all, the privatisation of large state systems, which will take place in a very narrow circle, as specific decisions on the sale of state investments and enterprises will be taken by a very narrow group of people. I have already said that the Council of the Agency counts three members, appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Prime Minister, the same Director. So in this world, the representative of Zares, the LDS, the SD, is no longer going to be room for DeSUS. They'll decide two out of three. And according to Pahor's Government, it's an independent and independent body. The strategy will indeed be adopted by the National Assembly, but it will not state the price, nor how these investments will be sold to anyone, nor at any price, nor any limit on the value of selling these investments. We need to know that this law transfers the whole Kad, with all the shares, all the companies, with the two institutions or companies recently established by this Kad, PDP and PDU, where non-transparent business is only possible. The Slovenian Compensation Company, DARS, is 100%, that is to say, motorways, Brnik Airport, Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways, both banks - NLB and Nova KBM, all electricity companies, CU electricity system, Telekom, Post office, everything not only silver, everything that this country provides for a material substance, and there will be no restrictions on selling it. The National Assembly will adopt a strategy by a simple majority, and on this basis matters will be dealt with. The law provides that the proportion to be sold, which is more than 25%, must be evaluated by the authorised evaluator. Interesting, 25%. There is no fixed share value. We know the shares where 25% is worth a few thousand euros and we know the shares where 25% is worth a few million euros, the value of the share is essential and this is not determined. It is said that up to 10, more than 100 million amounts can be sold even in such a way that it will not be necessary to ensure a prior assessment of this property. What is essential and which undermines the whole concept is the part that talks about the transfer of the share of the Insurance Company Triglav from the KAD, it is the shares of which the Pension and Disability Insurance Office is the holder of to this agency. I used to tell you what management means. The management term means full availability, including sale, by concealment, with a flag. The law states: "Any other legal transaction on the basis of which the holding of shares or shares of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to another legal or natural person." In the case of this share of the Triglav Insurance Company, it is a proportion transferred to the KAD in 2007 to provide an additional resource for the pension fund, for pensions. To what did the then opposition, the current ruling coalition, reveal to the government bad intentions, the referendum took place and the manipulation of the public by the then opposition was rejected by this law at the referendum. Then a new law was passed in 2008 which directly transferred this share to the Pension Treasury and put it in the management of the KAD, only against the situation, the purpose remained the same. It is precisely because the fear of not selling this share has been expressed, but we are now deleting these provisions. This law deletes this, management, which means availability in all content including sale, is transferred to an agency led by three people past the will of pensioners. At that time, the Alliance of Retired Associations, particularly the President, was a very loud Member of the Social Democrats, Mrs Matey Kožuh Novak. Where she is today, she can't hear her. On 17 December this law was adopted in the Government without opposition from DeSUS. Interesting. However, it is the part from which the Pension Treasury is supplied and which was then transferred to the pension register precisely in order to maintain the long-term stability of the pension treasury. This law directly interferes with the stability of the pension system in the security of pensions and pensioners. We therefore expect that, as proposed, it will not be accepted. We expect that all the assets available to the State, as far as its sale is concerned, will be intended to ensure the stability of the pension system in the future, so that no para-state institutions will be set up to spend additionally in such difficult times as you like to talk about, tax money and that management will be ensured in such a way that, when it comes to larger amounts, it will be decided by the two-thirds majority of the National Assembly. All these are the reasons why this law cannot be supported. And all these are the reasons why he should be rejected. And all these are the reasons why it cannot be rectified in further stages of the legislative procedure because it is conceptually flawed. The Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. The main purpose of the proposed law is to ensure economic and transparent management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the principles of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability. The proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia eliminates the so far large fragmentation in this area and transfers the management of capital investments from individual sector ministries to the capital investment management agency as a separate and independent body with the status of non-governmental direct budget user. By doing so, the State withdraws from the current management of companies and leaves it to an independent and independent agency. Capital investment management will be based on acts, namely the adoption of a strategy within the competence of the National Assembly and the annual plan, as an implementation plan to be drawn up by the Agency and adopted by the Government on the basis of an adopted strategy, and a governance code reflecting the basic principles of the law under consideration. The Agency’s designated management bodies shall be the Director, who shall manage the operations and decisions of capital investment management, and the three member boards of the Agency. The Director will have to obtain the approval of a Council composed of non-professional members to oversee the Agency's operations and adopt key acts of the Agency for more important decisions. In addition to these two bodies, the law provides for an accreditation commission as a consultative body to draw up expert opinions on the suitability of candidates for membership in the bodies of companies. The adoption of the proposed law providing for the professional and economic management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia constitutes one of the key conditions for the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the organisation for economic cooperation and development. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposed law and expect further procedures to improve the individual parts of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representative, representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that the existing system of investment management is characterised by a large fragmentation of investment management across different ministries, where sectoral policy is formulated and ownership is managed, which causes conflicts of interest. The interconnection of sectoral policy with management is certainly due to the lack of transparency and inadequacy between individual investment managers, inefficient and under-expert management and complex decision-making at multiple levels of decision-making regarding the exercise of ownership rights in companies, as stated by the legislator in the explanation of the law. Therefore, the main solution of this proposal is the law to transfer capital investment management from individual sector ministries to the agency established by this law. Even though the adoption of this law is essential for Slovenia's entry into the organisation for economic cooperation and development, we are very skeptical in the Slovenian People's Party to this bill. In our view, the law does not in fact bring any added value to the management of capital investments. Moreover, in our view, at the moment we are talking about savings in public administration, the introduction of a new agency is totally counterproductive to all the efforts and prevention that we are investing at least in the opposition in convincing the President of the Government that it is necessary to start saving. On the other hand, the law introduces a number of uncertainties. What does the abolition of the Court mean, in fact, without any specific explanation? What does it mean to set up an agency in relation to Kad, his investments and tasks? In our view, this law should be dealt with together with a strategy to reshape these two funds if we are to have a clear and clean situation ahead of us. But that's how we buy a cat in a jacket, create the beginning of something bigger, which you will then perform for our backs more or less without our knowledge. What further means a solution to the transfer of the management of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav from the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance to the Agency and the subsequent deletion of Article 2 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Share of Insurancees to which the natural persons are entitled. In our view, it is a grave attempt to play a referendum decision and a solution that has been adopted and introduced in the Property Recast Act to which natural persons are entitled. The law has a fundamental impact on the existing system of capital investment management of the Republic of Slovenia and its funds, almost without any justification which would explain this completely new concept to Members. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will listen carefully to today's debate, but above all we want and ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to answer the questions and dilemmas raised. Above all, our support for this law will depend on this, although almost now I can point out that we will not support such inconsistent and unexplained solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u98	Once again a nice greeting to everyone in the hall. The proposal for a law follows in particular two objectives: centralised management of the country's capital investments and the establishment of a specific management agency. This should allow or ensure, according to the applicant, an effective, transparent, responsible, identifiable and transparent implementation of the management of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear that the adoption of this law is necessary and necessary, not only in terms of transparent management of this part of the property of the country, but also, in particular, in the context of the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The latter already condition the entry of our country, in full compliance with the basic principles of the recommendations and guidelines which are the basis for its operation. It is therefore necessary to approach the adoption of the law with such content as we have before us today. Whether the content of this bill is appropriate or not is a completely different issue. They do not take into account the fact that a law has been adopted with such content as the conditions for the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the OECD, it is necessary to assess whether the proposed solutions provide an appropriate basis for transparent and effective management of the property of the State. The answer to this question is crucial. Indeed, everything too often is happening in the past and it is still happening that this part of the property of the country is being treated completely irrationally, resulting in an increase in the distribution of people both at the state treasury and at the social level. We are sure, and we are Members of the DeSUS, and we are sure that this area needs to be regulated. We also believe that the establishment of an agency that operates on the principles of economy and rationality is a suitable proposal. We are also convinced that there is an urgent need to lay down responsibility for the conduct or decision-making of the management of this property. The proposal provides for the establishment of a capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia which is supposed to be responsible for carrying out tasks relating to the management of capital investments, shares and shares of the Republic of Slovenia in individual companies. It is only with the latter that the country is expected to act as an informed, active and exemplary owner, which, in accordance with a clear and consistent ownership policy, will ensure that investment management is transparent, responsible, with the necessary level of professionality and efficiency. This is based on an explanation of the proposal. What has the country done so far? So organised, centralised management of the country's capital investments is also expected to have a positive impact on the budget, an additional €4.6 million in 2010 and €9.4 million in 2011. Again: What has the country done in this area so far? It is the duty of each government to implement such a policy in this area, which ensures the optimal results of the return on capital shares and investments. Despite our principled support, however, we have some concerns about DeSUS Members. First of all, the above-mentioned coalition partner response, which is enshrined in the coalition agreement: "Coalition partners will be reshape When we reshape the asset management in order to provide funds for the pension fund separately, so that the professionality and autonomy of the management of the state property will be ensured. We will transfer the ownership of this new organisation from the country to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance as a special capital fund, which will be separated from the current balance sheet of the ZPIZ. As a source of income for the financing of pensions and contributions from the State budget, the revised capital fund PPIZ will generate additional revenue to ensure certain stability of the pension fund or investments in the capacity of the protection of the elderly. The activity of managing pension funds will be self-sustaining when ensuring adequate capital security and several managers will be selected in the call for proposals. It is certain that the bill also interferes with part of Kadov’s and of the Court’s assets. However, the conflict agreement clearly states where the property of pensioners is to be transferred. Let me say and repeat, in the DeSUS Group on the solution of the proposal, we support, in principle, in terms of transparency, but a key comment on this work concerning the property of pensioners. It is not just a merger between Kad and the Court, any idea also appears in the media, but even a merger of the two with the management of all the country's capital investments. To this day, both the party and the parliamentary group have repeatedly warned and warned that the PPIZ should be the institution that actually owns Kad's property now and that the PPIZ would certainly act as a good and caring host with the aim of creating additional funds for pension and disability insurance. PPIZ is actually the owner of this property until 1996, and then there was a legislative modification, which meant the beginning of the process, we can say so-called tycunization. In Slovenia, there is also a report by the commission of inquiry that the operation was both ineffective, irregular and reckless as the Court of Justice. The Commission of Inquiry reached these findings at 23 meetings held. As a result of these findings, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation. The non-economic procedure When it also shows that the sale of this property was not necessarily necessary, since neither from the point of view of the needs of the State itself nor from the point of view of the balance sheet of that asset, the need for additional filling of the pension allowance was expressed. Leaving this property to PPIZ would be a plastic means of withdrawing the government from the economy. This is similar in other countries, such as Sweden and Canada. This belief is supposed to be a stock for future generations. The political impact of the informal groups has turned Kad into a parking lot of shares that are still sold in public, far below the optimal market price, many times in order to obtain funds to solve the financial and fiscal problems of the current authorities. This so-called property of pensioners from the privatisation process should form the basis for the creation of additional funds for pension insurance and, at the same time, for the security of the future generation. In short, the proposed State Capital Investment Management Act is, in principle, appropriate, but the absolute support of DeSUS Members at this time cannot be guaranteed. The text needs to be saved, and we therefore hope and expect that the legislative process will crystallize and confirm those proposals that will, to the greatest extent possible, ensure the objectives to which this proposal follows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues and representatives of the government! One thing is basically true, in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that the transfer of the management of state shares to one agency does not change anything, because all of this should have been in force by now. That is the point that we can come from, and no one in this room can challenge him. Regarding our position, as stated in the law, among the goals. The objective is to say one of the elements, or indents: "It is important that the state commences," I stress, "it begins to act as an informed, active and exemplary owner." I think the diction is so clear that I ask if the country has not done so far. I emphasize, as an informed, exemplary and active owner. A terrible confession, not to this government, in this country at all, for its conduct. Very bad. To this day in the Slovenian National Party, when we have to decide on this law, we do not know, and I do not know if anyone among you knows the total value of the shares that this agency will take. Whether the total value of the shares of €4.3 billion, as recorded in a table of 8 years old, is whether this is an assessment of someone who has made a little more of a commitment to this, that these are two billion euros. There's no record of that in this marriage. Nowhere is it clear and explicitly stated how much investments the state owns. We know that there are 94 of them directly, 82 of whom have 49 barrels, and some of them have another one of these institutions, so together about 230. Or all of these investments, about 230, called directly from Kad, Sod, and I think I'll take a look at it later. [[...]] Is that all? Which ones, we don't know. The law states that the implementation of capital investment management tasks is envisaged to establish a Capital Investment Management Agency, which will be an independent and independent body with the status of a non-governmental direct budgetary user. The emphasis was on non-governmental. The 40th Article speaks, or one of the other articles, of which the Director is appointed by the Government on a proposal from the President of the Government. I do not understand that an absolutely non-governmental organisation, an agency, is non-governmental if the Director is appointed by the Government on a proposal from the President of the Government. I'll be able to learn. The 40th article says, which is not clear to me, I will not say, what I do not know, I do not usually claim, but it is not clear to me: "the management of the capital tasks of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to the agency by law from the capital company of pension and disability insurance to the agency by the management of the shares of the insurance company Triglav, a shareholder company whose owner is the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia." I compare this content with the data from four years ago, which reads: "The Capital Society decided at the Assembly to reshape at rates. The transformation will enable Kadu to become an important financial group that will be able to," I stress, "to assume long-term pension obligations over the next 45 years." When the insurance company manages mutual pension funds and Kato becomes a strong ally in the pension area. I really don't understand any more. Is it possible to be strong in the desire to transform Kad, who has transformed at this time, in the next 45 years, we are now transferring part or all of our investments to an agency that is even supposed to be non-governmental? There's a lot of confusion in this marriage, a lot of missing information. With all the desire and desire to help the government, to really come once to the fact that the state, the devil, knows what it has and that it knows with what it has to do and do well, despite this really great desire and at the same time condemns us to write that the country will start to act as an informed, active and exemplary owner of what it should have done a long time ago - that is, acknowledging that it has not done so, that no one answers, has answered and probably will not. We have a desire to help, we have a desire to cooperate, even with the creation of such an agency, but, respected colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Government, such a vague law, with so many "why" and so incomplete also in the first reading, we cannot support it. That's our position so far. When we hear your answers, ladies and gentlemen, we may still be able to change some position, but I am repeating the fact that the transfer of government shares does not change anything, because all of this should have been valid by now, but with recognition in this law, unfortunately it is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Welcome to the State Secretary and Director of the Directorate! What do you say? Good purpose, positive thinking, and optimism are certainly one of the reflections and thoughts that we need to have, even when we engage in such laws. Nobody said government property management was bad. However, management can be even better every day in private, social or state property. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we understand this law by making it even better, more efficient, more transparent and more efficient to manage. One simple proverb from farmers is that one bad master is better than two good ones. This means that, in certain cases, it is necessary to have a comprehensive, unified view from one place. The issue of managing capital investments, especially those owned by the state, is certainly always exciting and interesting, so we have started today. As a result, this law is also faced with and supported by the general hearing of the National Assembly. This time we have before us a proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. From the very point of view of the law, this is also shown in practice by the fact that the greatest disadvantage of the current system is the excessive fragmentation of government investment management across different ministries. As the proponents state, this results in a number of conflicts of interest, intransparency, incoherence, and finally in ineffective, and we can say and admit, even in non-professional governance. We also often have the feeling that these investments are treated as part of a feudal property within the Ministry itself, where, when it is not possible, the objective is to manage investments well and with results, but to pursue completely different, perhaps political or other interests. This law provides the basis for centralised management of these investments through the so-called Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended to ensure that state capital investments are managed best. In this way, the desired objectives, in particular efficiency, transparency, accountability, also predictability, and not least separation to the greatest extent possible from the different policy impacts, should be achieved. The key element of this law is certainly the establishment of this agency, where the law defines its authorities, powers, resources for the work of the Agency and ways of managing capital investments also during the transitional period. The management of state investments will be carried out in a new manner on the basis of a management strategy and annual plans, which are an implementing act for the implementation of the strategy itself. As stipulated by the law, the strategy will be adopted by the National Assembly, which I think is good, positive and good, and the government will adopt each annual plan on the basis of the strategy already adopted. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware that the agency will have great power as well as responsibility, especially in the turbulent times in which we are and which are still coming. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary to finally establish a system in Slovenia that will allow capital investments to be carried out with the utmost caution and diligence. More importantly, the Agency will be able to carry out well with strategic investments, which it has further safeguarded, namely that the Agency will have to obtain the consent of the Government, and the Government will take a great deal of responsibility each time. One of the important objectives of the law is to reduce the impact of the policy on the management of capital investments, with which we fully agree in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and, on the other hand, on the heart, let us recognise that the impact of the policy on the management of state, capital investments will never, by definition, be completely avoided or eliminated. Whoever says that, I think he's deceiving himself or blinding himself. The management of state property is, by definition, political, whether we like it or not, but, of course, it must pursue economic and economic objectives in particular. However, the Agency is probably a positive step towards a comprehensive treatment of the problem, and above all it is important to establish a clear accountability structure, since this is the manoeuvring which has proved to be the biggest problem in the management of state investment so far. There have been, probably, mistakes, but never and never at one time, with the second or third government for failed investments, has no one ever responded to the investment. Thus, the system of corporate governance in Slovenia is more than necessary to modernise and place on a higher level. In the past, we have repeatedly witnessed the domestic mode of recruitment, management and, as a result, the lack of transparency, which has resulted in the lack of optimum effects. It is worth noting, however, that the law itself and the Agency do not solve the problem until, of course, we also manage to apply in practice the key principles set out in the law, namely, the principles of transparency, predictability, efficiency, economy and the greatest possible responsibility. This also means respect for the Code and appropriate sanctioning of all kinds of violations. Since the Agency will have a great deal of power and responsibility, at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are also of the opinion that the Council of the Agency, as provided for in Article 13 of the Act, must consist of a larger number of members, because, given the competences of the Council, such as: monitoring the operations of the Agency, adopting a strategy proposal and an annual investment management plan until the appointment of members of the Accreditation Commission and giving consent to acquire and dispose of capital investments, it is therefore necessary in our opinion that the Council has a sufficient number of members, different experts, that the critical mass of this decision is sufficient. In view of the fact that we also believe that the agency in its competences and responsibilities is the right path for better governance, we will therefore support the law with the necessary additions and further reflections. Finally, the adoption of this law is obviously also an important step towards membership in the most developed countries' club, which is in the organisation for the economy, cooperation and development, so this proposal for a law in the first reading will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! The adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the Social Democrats Group, has all two objectives. The first, which is extremely important for us in the Group of Social Democrats, is to regulate a single governance policy for state-owned enterprises, no matter how much the country's share in the ownership of an individual company. It is the responsibility of the State to act with its assets, which are in the form of a shareholding in the company, in a responsible and cost-effective manner with the aim of achieving the greatest economic and economic and financial effects. The existing system of active implementation of investment management has been fragmented across different ministries, where a sectoral policy has been developed, which must also have an important place in the new capital investment management policy, but has been fragmented and has also led to conflicts of interest. However, it was certainly imprudent, unrelated to individual investment managers, inefficient and under-expertised. It had complex decision-making procedures and these decisions were often blurred and also untransparent. If management of investments in the past were efficient and transparent, especially economically and for the benefit of the State, this is all of us, we would not have had a story like Mercator's sale in the cabinet of the former government or the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, which is still not fully explained whether it has been sold under book value and through the credits of Slovenian banks and the role of individual politicians and ministries in this matter. We could also list the operations of Intereurope or the Drava power plants, which in the past borrowed money from Holding Zvon1, and today they are asking for their money back. I don't want to make any mistakes, but in the debate on a new more efficient governance, we are reluctant to return to the memory of the wrong and media-intensive sales of state capital or the decision to run businesses in majority state ownership. Second, perhaps even more important, the reason for the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act is the efforts of the Republic of Slovenia to join the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development or, as we like to say, the OECD. The OECD State Property Policy is based primarily on three principles: clear state-owned policies in state-owned enterprises, responsibility for implementing the policy and reporting to Parliament for the implementation of the agreed policy, and consequently to all of us citizens. As Mrs Kamnareva, Secretary of State, said earlier in July 2009, the Government has adopted a policy on the management of state-owned enterprises and, on this basis, has drawn up laws on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia and is preparing other additional laws that have already been mentioned today. The law itself will not bring better governance if both the Government and the National Assembly do not change their thinking that capital investment management must be guided by the OECD principles, in particular economically and in the interests of the owner. The first rule laid down by the OECD is transparency and thus the creation of a corporate ownership structure and a clear agreement on the objectives to be followed by the Government in the management of state ownership. This objective must be pursued by the Government in the preparation of a management strategy that is three years old and adopted by the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, it seems important to us that this strategy, based on sectoral policies prepared by ministries, is prepared by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly for a period of at least three years. We estimate that this is a longer period and that the strategy is more developed and comprehensive and has clear expectations about the country than co-owners or 100 per cent owners, it is also better for other partners and future investors that they can shape their policies and prepare for the eventual withdrawal of the country from the economy, which is no longer the same, or just because we have always warned that the country is a bad host and does not know what to do with its property. With such an adopted strategy, it knows exactly what will happen and how it will lead this ownership policy in individual companies. This may be the case when the country does not have clear strategic orientations and differentiated ownership policies for a different category of its investments. The State must define through its strategy which investments are non-strategic, portfolio investments that serve solely or exclusively to maximise the share value and are available for sale at the appropriate time. Another investment group is investment in companies that are responsible for regional development and the conservation of activities and jobs that are important for a particular region or country. They can also be the development cores of a particular region. In addition, infrastructure investments form a special investment group of companies, followed by the State as the owner mainly of access to infrastructure and thereby regulates the market for services and goods. However, special attention in the strategy should be given to the companies identified by the State as the country's strategic investments, either state silver or gold, which it leaves to the challenges of the market or have been used in this financial and economic crisis to overcome it. I am thinking mainly of the banking and monetary sector, as well as of what energy investments with a high added value. The government, although establishing an agency to manage these investments and adopting a capital investment management strategy by the National Assembly, will not avoid liability for the implementation of the strategy, as it will adopt an annual capital investment management plan with specific objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. However, it will no longer directly implement this policy and will effectively withdraw from the economy, not ownership, if it does not define it in its strategy and in its annual programme. In order to be effective in implementing such a strategy, it is important that the Agency to do so is as independent and as professional as possible. Lawmakers predicted that the agency of the director and the council of the agency, which is three-member, should both be appointed by the Government. In the Group of Social Democrats, we propose to consider whether it would not be good for this Council of the Agency to be at least five-member, perhaps even seven, and to have someone from the professional academic sphere in its composition, and it would also be written in the composition of the world. It would also be good to identify ourselves before the proposal to appoint both the Director or perhaps even the Agency's administration and council. The question is, who should appoint these two bodies of the Agency - whether the Government should do so on a proposal from the President of the Government, as defined in the bill, on a proposal from the Government or on a proposal from Kviaz, which we have in the National Assembly? The responsibility for the implementation of the multiannual strategy is taken over by the Government, which also adopts the annual management programmes, and we cannot fully exempt the Government from the decision-making process of appointing the Agency's bodies, which will in particular implement the annual plan and monitor the implementation of the strategy. The Agency will also have its Human Resources Accreditation Council, as we briefly refer to it as KAS. We estimate that KAS achieved good results as part of the Government's operation. Above all, it has set new standards for the recruitment and appointment of supervisory boards in companies where the country has a decisive influence. KAS is now expected to do this within the Agency. The question is whether the KAS, appointed by the Government, should continue its work until the end of the term of office, whether the Agency should nominate its KAS within a specified period of up to six months, for example, to act in accordance with the Agency's acts. The Agency assumes an important responsibility for the implementation of the strategic policy in the management of state assets and it would therefore be right to take full responsibility as soon as possible in the field of human resources and human resources. In corporate capital investment management, however, we are asked whether it makes sense to have specific laws that will interfere with this area, such as the so-called Lachovnik Act, which limits wages in companies that still have state ownership in their own portfolio. These restrictions, if they make sense, will have to be implemented in the Agency through the supervisory boards and authorities operating such undertakings. Only this will be successful and will not happen to us Kramar or wages that are immoral, including rewards and emoluments. This will be an integral part of corporate governance in the future. In my mind, of course, I have the reward of management and the sharing of profits. The law will also have to provide for a slightly better commitment by the Government to report annually or biennially to the National Assembly on the objectives of the strategy adopted by the National Assembly and on the implementation of the annual management plans adopted by the Government and implemented by the Agency. This will also achieve the third OECD principle that citizens as owners of this country have the right to know how to manage their assets and whether multi-annual objectives have actually been achieved. In this way, we will also avoid the repeated accusations of the opposition, which always has objections to the sale of individual property on a case-by-case basis. Especially when it comes to the sale of strategic assets or government silver or gold, as we say. However, such non-transparent sales have unfortunately taken place in the previous term. This criticism of the opposition will probably not be completely avoided, as it is generally known that every time the opposition has a short memory and would always do everything much better. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a decision allowing the law in the parliamentary procedure to continue its normal course until the final adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Urh has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Little guy. [[He's not here.]] Gumzar. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u106	Respected and respected! We do not need a new corporate governance policy for state-owned enterprises because of the OECD requirements. We need them because we need to establish a new corporate culture, because we are responsible for this property and because these state-owned companies have too important development potential for the whole country to allow things as we have seen in the past. Today's law, which will be upgraded by the law on the transformation of the capital company and the Slovenian Compensation Society, I see as a key measure in the policy of withdrawing the country from the economy. This measure is not necessary in terms of the ownership withdrawal of the State from these companies, but rather to shift the influence of policy and many stakeholders on the management of enterprises which must follow the interest in the nobleness of state property, on the one hand, and to pursue other strategic interests of the State where, due to the strategic importance of the individual undertaking for the country, in particular in the banking and financial sector, energy and transport, this is necessary. If there is no corporate policy, and this is an important experience of Slovenia in the past period, state-owned enterprises will become preys and victims of every time political ambition, if not political ambitions, but certainly different stakeholders and lobbyist groups. I am convinced that the National Assembly should therefore recognise some common ambition that we do not want to be any more witnesses to state-owned intercessors and to meddle with state-owned companies. We do not want to be seen in this blending because these companies have a major social and developmental impact and potential, because they are extremely important to meet the different needs of people and because our country's strategic objectives are also at work and in pursuit of strategic goals. As it is said, especially in the banking and financial sector, economic public services, energy, transport, as well as "blues", where we can be justifiably proud in Slovenia, and where their results need to be upgraded through smart corporate management and opportunities for their development and market populism in global markets need to be enhanced. Finally, we also need this corporate governance policy because the country is in some way a fudiator of this property on behalf of citizens and citizens who own it. This requires us to be extremely responsible, which also coincides with the requirements for Slovenia's membership in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, i.e. the OECD, that we must divide the influence of politics and the country on these economic societies. The country by adopting the strategy does not only provide for the availability in terms of transferring its property to a new legal person, it is true that the sale of this property, the sale of family silver, as Mr Cernač said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. No, no, no. This law refers to management in the sense that the management of capital investments includes the acquisition of capital investments, the availability of capital investments and the exercise of the rights of shareholders and shareholders, i.e. countries as shareholders and shareholders. This does not necessarily imply ownership changes, which will certainly be the most important talk in this debate. It speaks of the fact that the State must play an active role as a member and shareholder of an enterprise in which it has its ownership stake, to set up a strategy for what we want to achieve with some companies, what importance this company has for the development of Slovenia, because of its social, economic and competitive effects and that through this lever, through the country that adopts the strategy, through an agency that will prepare and to a large extent also monitor the implementation of the strategy, through the human resources of the supervisory boards and the responsibilities of these supervisory boards, as well as the responsibility for the implementation of the policy of managing the individual undertaking in the management of these companies, we have a clear commitment that must prevent the scenarios that we have witnessed in Slovenia in the past period. I find it difficult to accept the criticism that this law legitimizes the scenario of the non-transparent sale of state property, from those who hosted meetings in the Mercator sales office, of the failed sale of the majority stake in the Slovenian steel industry at the price of two annual profits at the time the price of steel went up in the sky. There must be a number of issues that are open to this law: the extent of consensus in adopting a governance strategy in this National Assembly, the way in which the Director and the Council of the Agency are appointed, and I am also inclined to resolve that this Council is appointed in the National Assembly and has the highest possible legitimacy and thus the authority to implement this corporate policy. Because this agency will be an extremely important member of the new corporate governance policy. And here there is also the danger that mismanagement and the possibility of agencies having different non-transparent impacts would have a detrimental effect on what I believe should be our common objective and this is transparent, transparent, efficient corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. Let me finish with one expectation. Various interests in the decentralisation of the country must also be pursued in this area. There was something small about this already in the stage of the debate when we coordinated this law. I think it would be appropriate to place the seat of this agency or the seat of the insurance company, which will be created after the conversion of the pension funds managed by the given capital company, in Maribor, we have already talked about this, and I think it is appropriate for us to express this ambition in this Chamber today. In order to centralise the country, institutional decentralisation also plays an important role. From this law, as well as from the law that will determine the transformation of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society, we must expect an enormous amount. In the National Assembly, even when we adopt a governance strategy, we must insist on what we have written, the high words that this law brings in the text of the articles, as well as in its explanations, are. I am convinced that this can lead to a completely new quality of the development of our state-owned enterprises, which are one of the most important tools we have for the development of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u107	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Mr. Chernač, I have not noticed that he would be quoted as being called. Yeah, was he? Yes, there you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Even if it wasn't, it's a replica to explain the wrong statement. Mr Frangež needs to read paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of Articles 2 to understand what the term management means. And if you read all of these three paragraphs of Articles 2, 5, 6 and 7 you will find that management means availability, and having capital investments means selling, replacing or any other legal transaction on the basis of which the holding of shares or shares of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to another legal or natural person. That means management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you. [[The ad in the hall.]] You have a procedural proposal and please do not abuse this commercial authority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u111	It is easier to understand because I think it is important for further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u112	No, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u113	I agree with Mr. Chernač, but this article does not only talk about the fact that we are not just talking about availability. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u114	Please don't abuse [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u115	but also on the exercise of equity and social rights. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u116	It's an abuse of the rules of procedure. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I, too, will now begin in view of the debate so far, the possibility of correcting three statements, in particular those made in the presentations on the positions of some groups of Members, particularly those which are very black-sighted at the beginning of the idea of setting up this agency. In my view, it is still better for these things to take place within the Agency than in the offices of individual party or government presidents. One thing we know for sure is that this has happened because "and the flags" have been proven. But it probably happened somewhere else in the past. Another time. It is indeed the idea of this agency to intervene in February, and not only ministerial, but there have been certain other feuds for several years, which have been held by individual political elites, which are bound to the parties, regardless of who currently runs the executive branch of power. Third time. It is difficult to listen to those black forecasts about these agencies, which have proved by their past activities, for example, because it has been repeated several times, when Mercator is sold and large amounts of money is exported with "acquisitioners" for the purchase of some platforms abroad, and land abroad, a lot of public, public, tax money and so on. Therefore, once and for all, it is right to try to stop the operation of these feuds. Therefore, I must first say that whether we enter the OECD or not, we should change something in this area sooner or later. The fact is that no government has so far been able to make and develop clear ownership policies and a clear ownership concept of state property management. There are many reasons for this, and I would stop at a single syntagma, a password that has been emerging for the last 15 years. This is a password on the withdrawal of a policy or a country from the economy in order for the State to be the owner of the property to be the bad owner and manager of the property. At the same time, this was linked to another politicised password, a so-called national interest. Let us remember the brewery war and the results and conclusions of this brewery war after a few years. Today, it is more than obvious that this dilemma was: staying or withdrawing from the economy, a politically interesting dilemma that allowed individual interest groups to feed in mud in the ownership of the former state property. And, of course, there has been a mix of these diverse interests with political interests. As a result, there are many individuals, I will now use this word to enrich this account, despite the fact that with my own capital, with my own knowledge, with my own stakes, with my own abilities, we will strengthen our own capital base. And the result is more than obvious. State property is also a principle of its substance. And today we have some state shares or state property, which means the burden on the state, but not to bring some additional money into the budget. It is therefore right at this point to find some response to how to manage capital investments and, above all, state assets in an efficient and public interest. And the answer is in the OECD guidelines. Here, in my opinion, we don't need to lose words. This is clear: without central control, no government, whether red or black, left or right, yellow or any other colour, can implement a consistent and effective ownership policy of state property. I think we've come to this realization after 15 years, whether we're now in the OECD or not. And the Agency, in my humble opinion, is following the same path as the OECD guidelines and, on the other hand, the objective is to separate the performance of the ownership function from the other functions performed by the State in the area of property. Here, too, it is necessary to seek a possible answer to the question whether such a form will limit the direct impact of each executive authority on the management of this property and make it clear that the management of capital investments would be the prey of individual political elites or interest lobbyes that are intertwined with political interests. That is why, at this point, I support this idea at this stage of the draft law on the Agency for the Management of State Shares. In the end, I'd have two more things. There has already been a lot of talk today about the management and setting up of the Board of Agency and Directors. I also agree that the Council of the Agency, given the complexity and scope of the work that the Agency will have to do, would have more than three members. Secondly, given the status of this agency, which is supposed to be independent and independent, the Council and the Director are appointed on a proposal, but here is my proposal, because the Government is only the one to be proposed by the Government in the National Assembly. And there's another small flaw or a small observation when we're talking about control. I am increasingly convinced, and today I am definitely convinced, that in the past it was not the main point for supervisors and the supervision of individual companies, because they would have owners, in this case also a country, of excessive influence and policy on supervisors. But in my opinion, the smoothness of the supervisory councils and supervisors with the administrations was a feedback effect that this state property was not treated as it should have been. It's another dilemma we've been growing for ten years, and it wasn't a real dilemma in the right dimensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar. [[He's not here.]] Jerich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Visac, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. In reading this text, a person cannot avoid the sense that it is an attempt to manage the country's key assets under the authority of an agency and thus create an important fevd and an intermediary which, as a result, will be able to have relatively untransparent and to have a degree of individual political elites with state assets. That's a fact. Why is that? Because it is not, not at all, by this government, a serious vision and a strategy for managing its own assets. First, gentlemen of the government, prepare this clear strategy and vision. How it will manage and what the interests of the country are with all these investments. With everyone, to the last. If this strategy is clear and precise enough, then we do not need any agency and no intermediary to be subject to such and different influences of individual elites. We see that, in this mandate, there is a marked squabble and feudalisation of individual issues under certain dominant ministers. For example, Minister Golobič wants to fully subordinate himself to the sphere of electronic communications, as well as banking, because he sees his own interest here. Some ministers are more dominant in any other area. Those who manage to abuse here will have a similar circus as we had with the Nova Ljubljanska Banka administration, the director of this agency will be relatively in an undefined, over-the-counter document, which will talk about the management strategy for these investments, have free hands in doing so and will be able to work at home. The design of the marriage is such that she can get her homework. Even this kind of thing you've been able to afford, before having less than 25% of the share, you don't even have to deal seriously with the value and value of this investment. Regardless of the amount of that share. Article 31 states: "In the event that the Republic of Slovenia has more than 25% of the share of the capital capital, the value of the capital investment must be assessed by the authorised assessor." What if it's less? And it could be an astronomical sum. Or not then? Who then determines the value? A major problem is in some simplification of the way in which it is available, given the existing legal order. We have a regulation that sets out the real and financial assets of the country and the municipalities, which is highly recognised and very precisely defined. And if you were to be transparent, then this regulation should apply to the availability of Kad and the Court, and this would make it more transparent. I think that before any adoption of such a law, which offers more questions than answers, which offers a number of arguments to the opposition, it would question the genuine intention of more responsible management, that the Government should even give birth to a strategy, as it sees after years or after periods of a certain capital investment, and in particular the key capital investments it has in business. For example, how he sees the capital investment in Telekom, how he sees the capital investment in Petrol, in Krk, in Gorenje and similar companies, which are important employees and, last but not least, important generators of economic activity in the country. There has been no experience from the past that one uncoordinated operation of the state has caused enormous problems. Therefore, in the previous mandate, the Government has also adopted a specific asset management programme for Kad and Sod and the State, which it has written down and elaborated and adopted. And also the methods of sales were defined there. And first, gentlemen, when you talk about desire and ambition for seriousness and compliance with the OECD rules, first of all you decide what you would like to do with state property in the future. Whether we have it in our possession or not, we'll sell it. But if we're gonna sell it, tell me what, how much, and how much. That would be the answer. In fact, this is what the OECD rules want: transparency and some effective governance and control over all this. As far as I know, the director of the Directorate is sitting here with us, and we have a key body in the Ministry of Finance that cares about public property. And it's probably also in line with the powers of a lot of jurisdiction. There are also various flowers, which even speak of having such property, which has been the subject of referendums. The Agency also benefited from the management of the shares of the insurance company Triglav, the holder of which is the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The intended assets that are there are known for what - for the stability of the pension system and pensions of pensioners in the future. Now this agency's been doing a great job with all these properties. And, Your Honor, you will not avoid untransparent and inefficient management of this agency, you will avoid just in such a way as to make it clear what you would like to do with your assets in the future. But if you don't know this, and this will be done by an agency instead of you in the government, then it will be one new prey that you want as a result of winning the elections, to those in the background who want this prey the most. But you will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u120	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems that this bill has started a large and long-term and extensive process of transformation, both property and management. With regard to the definition of governance, it is clear that this has aroused concern for many and that there will probably still need to be a lot of clarification and complement and ensure that what could have happened could not have happened. The government, that's how I understand it, came out of two needs when it prepared it. One is the need to talk about timing before the Paris event and admission to the OECD, and I don't think that's the most important thing. More importantly, I think that what the drafter wrote in the introduction is what he wrote himself. Pointing to the fact that the government is not the best master and that this needs to be changed. What it says about fragmentation, about opposition, even the direction of individual sectors or ministries, what it says about poor professional skills, poor governance and poor efficiency, it is likely that this is about recognising that the best form of governance has not been chosen. But ownership doesn't change anyway, even under this law. This is in principle an institutional and management change. There are some concerns in this regard. I believe that the trainees will have to make an effort to explain further or to make a difference in the fact that one mega operator is now emerging. This will be the controller who will really have a lot of power to manage it with some mini-team. This team that's scheduled for this big management business is probably quite modest. But if we think about the links, who is the proposer, who calls this team, and what are the mutual responsibilities, then there are no mistakes if we say that it is actually going to be, so it can also be understood, to shorten the path from the government to the management of individual capital shares, which are now scattered all around, then everything will be so on the palm, centralised and this path will be a little easier. I hope it is not so that it was not meant to be, but it is possible to understand this from the proposal of the law. This is one flaw that the representatives of the proposers will certainly be able to explain, if not today, in a later process. The second flaw is the flaw that has already been mentioned several times today, which also encourages me to ask myself how much this is in accordance with the coalition agreement and some of the provisions that are written there. We have agreed that greater autonomy must be ensured, and in some ways this bill will bring about. We agreed that there would be more expertise, more independence. We also agreed on what we want with property and we mentioned three types of property in which the country would participate: that pure porfolia property that participates in the private sector, and that infrastructure, because it has greater demands and greater ambitions, and that property that is important from a systemic point of view, from a financial point of view. You know, in a frame of reference, what would happen to the property. However, we did write differently in Kad. There we wrote down where this Kad's property should go and what ambitions we have with this Kad's property. Towards ambition by the strength of one of the public cash registers, pension registers and pension financing systems. It is true that when there is a relatively small percentage of all that is needed, it is still one of the guarantees. In order to ensure that nothing changes in the security, in the stability of the pension and in the payment of pensions, the Government or the proposer will have to explain whether these threads, which are now valid from Kad through the budget to the treasury, will not be torn down. Whether all the obligations the State now has in this container of the pension register are maintained in the future and in what way this will be preserved.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u122	Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Anton Rop. Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The worst master is an irresponsible master. This bill corrects precisely this situation, where today, when it comes to state property or, rather, capital investment, never knows exactly who is drinking and who is paying. Although, in the end, someone is always very nice enough. With this amendment, it will be very clear who is responsible for the country's capital investments, how to manage them and who should be responsible for its decisions. It is a matter of transparency and it is also a matter of good governance, because this law clearly sets out responsibilities. And when it clearly defines responsibilities, it also clearly defines powers. Competence on how to run a particular company, what strategy to enforce, when to buy and when to sell. And that's good. Such a law will no longer make it possible to sell Mercator's office for four walls. This law will make tycoons harder to come by. And such a law will make it more difficult to conclude contracts where some who will leave their jobs prematurely will be able to take up a million euros of retirement. And that's good. When we want to put some things in order and when it comes to a large investment quota for a lot of state property, a lot of people don't like it. For today’s state of nebulosis is fitting for many people, because there can be many good manners on nebulisers, and as has been said before, but no one knows exactly who is responsible for it. That is why I strongly support this bill. I am very pleased that he came in such a form, in pure form, which follows very clearly the OECD proposals, although we are not doing this because of the OECD. After all, we do not want to enter because of the OECD, but because of us, because of the positive consequences that membership brings. And this law is one of the first positive consequences of our entry into the OECD, which encourages us to clearly set certain criteria and certain standards. I expect that it will soon be the turn of the law that will substantively complement the current Capital Investment Act, a law that will reshape the ownership of Kada and Soda, so that we can give the "meat" to this excellent healthy skeleton, which is likely to be confirmed and adopted in the coming months. However, it must also be said that, with rules so clearly laid down, we will have to reconsider whether we need certain ad hoc solutions, which have already proved to be flawed in previous analysis - I think of the proposal for a law on the limitation of wages in state-owned enterprises, which concerns only some state-owned enterprises, but not a large majority - because we can better regulate what this law wants to regulate better through this law through this law and through the regulations it brings, but for a much wider range of companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u124	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Ma'am mag. Stoner, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Perhaps it would be time to respond to some of the claims made so far. I think it is necessary to clarify what this law actually changes in terms of ownership or does not change because the debate so far has shown that it is also a matter of misinterpretation. In my introductory presentation, I said that ownership remains in the country and does not go to the agency. This means that the State is the absolute owner of all its capital investments, as is the case at this time, and that the purchase will come fully into the state budget if any of the financial investments, as well as the dividends or revenues from such assets, occur. Therefore, the role of the Agency will only be at the level of implementing a policy set out in two important acts. One of the important acts is the Financial Management Strategy, which is supposed to be the medium-term document, and this is what Mr Vizjak said this matter is missing and we do not know what to do with financial assets. Therefore, this strategy will each medium-term period outline what the country will do in individual sectoral areas with the assets it has. On this basis, an annual asset management and management programme will then be established, which will only be implemented by the Government and the Agency. So it is difficult to say that the agency here will be a new feud, as it was called in the debate, where the political interests and influences of individual political or other lobbyist groups will be "broken". On the contrary. Given that the documents that are decisive for the implementation of the policy are separated from the Agency - their contractor, it is likely that this overlap of political and other logistical influences will be less than in the current situation where these divisions were not very clear. Maybe it's about the procedure. With regard to potential sales procedures, which could be followed by strategies and annual programmes, the procedures are once again regulated in a manner already regulated by the Public Finance Act and based on it by the Regulations. In the future, the basic principles of financial management will also be regulated by the Public Finance Act and the Agency, which will be the contractor, will be bound to comply with these rules, so that there will not be any other behaviour here, as is the case with public funds, but the Agency will also be bound to do so. Of course, there is a slightly different behaviour with regard to portfolio investments, where the Agency will of course have more time limits, which is normal, and because only such policy can lead to the fact that the state budget from these portfolio investments comes as much revenue as possible, which is in the interests of the whole country and, of course, the public good. So we think, at least that's the idea, if it's not properly articulated, we'll look at it again and, if necessary, add it up and write it more precisely so that there's no misunderstanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director. Colleagues and colleagues. Today, it has been mentioned several times that in the past there have been a number of setbacks, for state assets that have failed, even more, harmful ways of managing capital investments or so-called state silver. Therefore, we could say in the past that there were quite a few flowers that were still far from the beautiful co-existence of the "beautiful flowers", more roses, of which there were only thorns left without flowers. And now it is the task of this government to remedy all these shortcomings, intransparency, inefficiency. It is a government measure by adopting this law, which is not by any means attractive. It is true, however, that there was some dissatisfaction in the debate today, as this Government, including the Prime Minister, shows determination, clarity, very clear determination and transparency, as some might wish, perhaps not. It is true, however, that by adopting this law and establishing an agency for managing capital investments, we also come to certain historical business decisions that have been really domestically taken and, most sadly, it is today, when we find that, during the economic and financial crisis, we would be able to help all those companies that are now in difficulties, too hasty or perhaps not well thought out and measures that have, of course, deprived the country of a lot of millions of euros, so that today it would be significantly easier to help all those who are in difficulties today, it would be significantly easier for all those who are unemployed, today, who are watching us, listening and thinking, because with those millions, if I sum up the allegations here, today it is repeatedly said, connected to the Mercator, how much the premium, whether it was well thought, linked to the Slovenian steel industry, which is linked to Slovenia's efforts to the adoption of this institution, and the adoption of Slovenia's economy and today's investment. Indeed, as I have said before, the adoption of this law will go unrelentingly into the past, it may seem unwitting to the near-healed but in fact unhealed wounds, and that perhaps there will be another question about some business decisions at that time, and that this will also be debated unwittingly. But when it comes to discussing this, the Council of the Agency, the number of members, the competences or the powers, would all powers be vested in the National Assembly, would Kviaz and so on, or would the government have a say in that? It is interesting that this National Assembly has appointed this Government, appointed this ministerial team and expects all these people with a high level of responsibility to operate and operate as efficiently as possible, transparently, responsibly and, therefore, to work primarily in this direction to achieve success, to achieve positive results in satisfaction and in line with the expectations of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, it would be very illogical for us to now imagine that the responsibility for all actions would be borne by the Government and that the powers of appointment, for example, by the administration and the council of the Agency, would be solely on the side of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has appointed them, so I do not think that we will be able to exclude entirely the powers to appoint the agency's governing bodies without any government having a word in this direction. However, now that it has never been in the past, it is now the desire and decision to separate the performance of the ownership function and the management function. In relation to the OECD and what is mentioned here, the OECD core principle in the management of state ownership is transparency in the design of ownership policy. Let me point out that the country as a fuduciar is obliged to make clear to the owners the objectives and policy of following these objectives by category of ownership. This is not only due to owners, that is, citizens to tell them what they will do with their property, but it is also due to all other investors to have clear expectations about how the country behaves as co-owners. No government has so far developed clear ownership policies. Mainly, the principle of bad news was in force that state property should be resold in a magnificent withdrawal from the economy. Since withdrawal cannot replace pro-active policy, there has been, of course, damage. Occasional screams and warnings in the daily press have reminded of the need for more strategic behaviour of the country, but these have also warned of overcrowding in a politicised debate on national interest and the question of whether the country is a good or bad host. Whether the state withdraws from the economy or not, after 18 years of false search, the dilemma remains. The real question is how to effectively manage individual segments of government property in order to achieve clearly set objectives. This is also the case with one of the academic experts, for whom I also assess that it should certainly be included among the members of the Council of Agencies. Today it is only the first reading of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. I will vote for the adoption of this law myself. There will certainly be some additions to the second reading, some corrections, as a number of discussions have led to certain conclusions and reflections that there will be something to be done here, as well as some issues that may have made some of them more angry, impatient, or in any way dissatisfied today. I believe that the desire for efficiency, transparency, is probably stronger than surely in the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u128	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rado Likar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of the law, according to the proposer, is to regulate investment management according to the principles of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability, separately from the influence of policy and individual stakeholders. However, whether we do not have these principles in our language, we have all those who are preparing or preparing any acts relating to governance as such or in this case the management of the property of the State. However, in the draft law, I did not track down the solutions that would ensure these principles. The transfer of all assets to one agency, in my opinion, is not a good solution, since only a narrow group of people will decide on the management of, say, acquisition, disposal and sale of state property. As bodies, the proposal provides for the Council of the Agency, which has a president and two members, and for the Director of the Agency. The proposal also states that the adoption of this law is crucial to Slovenia's admission to the OECD and that these are its guidelines. This can be true, but I think that the OECD does not specify the content or solution, and this is just an excuse, as has been the case many times since we referred to the European Union's requirements. The section or article referring to the establishment of the Agency states that it is a self-sustaining, independent and direct budgetary user who is not bound in his work to the instructions of the Government, ministries or other authorities and that he is independently managing state-owned companies. The Agency is supposed to be a similar body, such as the Court of Auditors, in terms of independence and independence. I wonder whether there could also be a situation where the Agency might decide against the so-called national interest. We have not long seen the situation when, for example, the Court of Auditors even took over the role of Parliament. Property management means, as it were, acquisition, disposal and sale. And in this place, I wonder what the agency will do with the sale of the property. I did not see this in the proposal, but I think Mrs Kamnareva explained that this would be the revenue of the state budget. Even if this purchase goes into the state budget, there is nowhere to find a solution, for example, who will cover the manka in the pension box, which we know is the solution now, and I don't think is bad. In short, there are many questions, and I think it would be problematic to adopt this bill at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u130	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franz Jursha. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Vito Rozej. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Well, I still claim and insist on some of the data that we have given in the Slovenian National Party, because I still do not have some data. So when adopting the capital investment management law of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Republic of Slovenia is putting in charge, I will be precise that we will not now be guilty of saying that ownership will give to someone, something, is the first thing that we should logically know, what we are giving, what is the value of these shares, whether it is a billion, two, three, five billion. And secondly, I have data, correct me, but I think it's quite true that the state has direct ownership of 94 capital investments, when 82 of them, the SOD has 49 and the Consulting and Management Company 11, total 221. The law contains a list of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia and is listed in 60 out of 211, or if you only want 60 and 94 direct investments owned by the State. Then I'll ask you a different question. What about the others between 60 and 94 or up to 230? The next question that comes up is still what I asked you earlier. I really don't care how it can be decidedly stated that the Agency is an independent, independent, non-governmental body, but if the Director and the Council are appointed by the Government on the basis of a proposal by the President of the Government? Then he's not independent and incompetent. And even if this is how the government will influence, we are where we started, it means that there will still be an impact on governance from individual government sectors. In other words, the Ministry of Economy has recently proposed some capital sales. Newly, if I were to think if this agency were to live, this would be done by explaining that we would not be mixing any more policy into the state-owned business, but if the government now decides to do so again, it would mean that the same story will only be proposed by the Minister of Economy or the Ministry of Economy instead of proposing it would be proposed by the Agency on their behalf on their initiative with their involvement. Actually, we didn't do anything. That's just the way I see it. You can fix me if I'm wrong, but we didn't actually do anything. Just that someone else or someone else will be hidden from the government, the Ministry, or whatever. That's how it is to understand. Also, the comment made by respectable colleague Kumer is in place. This is where I agree. If this is to be discussed regardless of our decision, the three-member world is too small and it is only right that if we stay in the government if it will, if it will, that the Government will be the one who will appoint the Council and the Director that the role of the National Assembly is also needed here. Last but not least, if we're really going to get so far away, this story will go into effect. In short, I think I have listed something that has been given to apolitical arguments and questions that are very important in the adoption of the law. I am simply saying that this law goes into processing, that it is suitable for further consideration, not knowing what the value of the shares that the agency will be able to manage, how much of the investments owned by the State will be involved, or what will be the difference between the other, if it is 60, all 94, now I am talking about the specific numbers, what will happen to those, the difference, and not least the question of what is actually going to happen to that work that is being carried forward, the management of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav, d.d., namely the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance. Is this really security money for pensions and will, I don't know, be marketed with it? Now, if it will be marketed in order to make it more money, which will still be entirely devoted to pensioners and, of course, it will be visible through their pension, I agree with this, but I have no guarantees in this law. In short, there are so many things, if's and ambiguities, that for our client so far there is no law in this context suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u132	Ma'am mag. Kamnareva, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Perhaps a few further clarifications regarding the current debate. So, as far as the purchase is concerned. It is true that there is no explicit article to say where funds are being paid from the possible sale of property or where funds are being paid from the proceeds of property. However, it follows from the very nature of the position of this agency, which has the status of a direct budgetary user, that it is the "title" of the Republic of Slovenia. This means, in conjunction with the Public Finance Act, that all the revenue of this Agency is simply the revenue of the State budget, unless otherwise specified by the law. And that's not the way it's supposed to be. As regards the position of the direct budgetary user and the words of the non-governmental budgetary user and the appointment of the Director by the Government. The position of the non-governmental budgetary user through the Public Finance Regulation means that the Government has no direct influence on the functioning of this budgetary user, especially in its financial impact, but also, of course, in its impact on its functioning. Since there are no levers through which it could simply affect the functioning of this body, except, of course, once again in the law provided for in the acts, and in this case, this is an annual disposal or asset management programme. This is actually the only document through which the Government can influence this budgetary user. And it's true, this is where we set up the government to appoint a director. I must admit that we have also had concerns in the Government whether to appoint the director of this agency to the level of the National Assembly or to place it at the level of the Government. In both cases, the political impact on appointment is. This is clear to us because politics is in the National Assembly and in the Government. So, here, if you choose a different solution, the government will not oppose it excessively if you think that this is a greater guarantee, that the smaller impact of politics through the National Assembly is ensured or that this influence of policy is more diversified. As regards the issue relating to the relations between Kad and the pension company and this agency, this was also limited in the discussion in several places. See, this law actually means that in the event that Kad has a greater investment in any of the companies, this indirect investment management will also be taken over by this agency and when will it no longer do so. Of course, it is in connection with this law, I think that next week the law on the conversion of Kad and Sod and DSU will also come into public debate, which will very clearly resolve all these issues, but the agency itself, which enters as a manager of assets in no part, affects the relationship between Kad and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in terms of property. Therefore, given that Kadu was granted assets in the form of financial investments, with a view to using this property to increase the assets of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and to provide for the payment of current or future pensions, this will remain in advance. When we bring this law, you will see that it is only a matter of changing the form of property between Kad and the country and thus establishing an equivalent amount of property for a pension society, I will not go into detail now, because that law will be individually obtained and we will also deal with it together. And perhaps only as regards the statement of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. This list is a fairly dynamic matter, virtually every day the list is different, because the country is often involved in succession procedures, such as dead persons, and when there are obligations of these persons to the country of Slovenia, a simple payment is made by using their assets, it is known that this property is then generally sold very quickly because they are very small capital investments. As a rule, it does not make sense to keep them in our portfolio, unless it is a capital investment where we are already larger owners. The list annexed to this law was, in fact, relevant at that time; perhaps today it is somewhat different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u134	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. If this law were proposed by the Janša government, there would be pensioners on the streets today and DeSUS would threaten to withdraw from the coalition. By this law you abolish individual articles of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, such as 246, 247, which discusses the Capital Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance. This Fund, called the Capital Fund, d.d., with its assigned revenue, is hereby abolished. By this law, you repeal Article 2 of the Property Change Act, which I spoke about in the position of the Group of Members, which makes it clear in this article that the annual net return on the management of the property referred to in this paragraph is transferred to the pensioner’s account of the PSIZ. You leave pensioners with this law in a significant proportion, because they are taking up the entire share of the insurance company Triglav, which was given to them in 2007 via Kad and after the referendum in 2008 directly through the pension register. By this law, you repeal the Regulation on sales and other forms of possession of state and municipal financial assets for the purpose of this Act, not for other purposes. Thus, where billions are concerned, it will not apply, but several thousand euros will be valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u136	Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u137	One more explanation. Article 40, mentioned by Mr Cernač, deals only with the transfer of the management function from Kad to the Agency. The ownership, as I said before, of the assets and all the income of this property remains unchanged, which means that it is attributed to the property of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. In this particular case, we have only regulated the relationship of capital investments related to the Triglav Insurance Company, which is something special under existing legislation. However, this does not mean that we are taking assets from the pension institution, but we are simply transferring management from Kad to the agency. If I make it very simple, it will change that when he no longer appoints supervisors in the Supervisory Board of Insurance Triglav, this role will be played through the Accreditation Board of the Agency. And that's basically the key thing. If, of course, anything changes here at the level of divestment of these shares or capital investments in the Triglav Insurance Company, this will, of course, be the subject of a strategy to be adopted by the National Assembly. It's not a story like it's been able to understand from your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u138	Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the Secretary of State has explained very well what the substance of this law is in fact. It is the management of assets owned or owned by or owned by certain funds that are para-national or by the State. It's about management, not about transfer of ownership, and it's not about selling it. And an important novelty of this law is that the National Assembly will discuss and establish a governance strategy for state property. This is important and this is the one thing that will, of course, make sales and possession of this property in fact substantially more transparent than ever before. It's not going to happen that we're going to sell, I don't know, one 100 million investment and buy something small for 140 million somewhere else, because we didn't have a strategy and because we didn't know how or how. As the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has said, this law will also be supported in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, would you like another word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I can say that all the reported debaters you wanted got the floor. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I can see that. That's why I'm opening the application. Four panellists have been reported. Debate time, for every five minutes. Mr. Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! So I also agree with those who claim that if such a law were drawn up by the previous government, today would have special editions of the printed media, the streets would probably be full of different civil society guards, who would of course talk about how the pension treasury will collapse. Surely it would also be a government crisis, as the party representing the pensioners would probably threaten to withdraw from the coalition. Regardless of the facts, I stress this because Mrs State Secretary has explained a lot of things, I say, regardless of the facts, the matter would be such; the fact is that the management of assets is, in particular, State property, not an easy task. That's clear. However, those who today claimed that in their 20 ’ s it was all a mistake to be insolent, irrespective of the government that it was. That's what you have to say. And that now, of course, we have overlooked, we have seen no idea what kind of lightning that has enlightened us, and the government will set up an independent agency that will rule over state property, and that will be oh and everything is independent, because the government is independent, one probably, the other not, and the management will be wonderful. It will not be possible not to do that or that or that sales or purchases will not be transparent, everything will be great. Someone also talked about some flowers, roses without thorns, or whatever. If anyone thinks it will be so, but the government is really politically purely independent, no matter what government it is, then I'm afraid that roses will still have thorns, but I'm even more afraid that in the meantime there'll be some kind of fuxia. And I'd like to tell you that this is not the case. I was happy, really, what can I say, to the State Secretary's comments when she said it, because it doesn't matter. The government is political, and so is Parliament. Of course, because we're in political elections, which is different. At least apparently someone in the government knows that there is no way to completely avoid politics. Whether the Authority will appoint a Parliament or a Government, the matter still has some political connections. Which is normal, otherwise it's not working. I would also mention here that perhaps the country, generally speaking, is not the worst master. For, say, the case of the French Renault, the government has a large share there, that's the state's share. It's true that now it's a little smaller than it was, I don't know, five years ago, but Renault is a world giant and well-governed also has a state share. So it's not exactly like that. Volvo also had a very long state stake, and even in the majority we cannot say that Volvo is one lousy company because the state has its share. It doesn't just work like that. But I'd like to remind you of something else. That in the past there were, of course, some strange connections, strange tendencies, strange procedures. But let me remind you, it's not that long ago, let's say, and half back, we've talked a lot about some national interests. That was the tip, that was the tour when we were talking about the economy, that was the repaint star. Everything went beyond national interest and in this national interest it was also, for example, the sale of the Pivovarna Union as a national interest. He had to sell himself just like that, not otherwise. No matter what, one of the foreigners would give more. I don't know. I might not have done it, but I could, but since it was a national interest, foreigners shouldn't have been too interested in it. However, if they did, they were told that this was a national interest. By no means was Lek’s national interest. But we sold the drug past because it wasn't a national interest, and then we found out that we're essentially drug, and I'm going to go a little bit too far, and I'm going to say that we were squeezing it. If today, as a national interest, were to bring together our pharmacists, we would have some more added value. That's what I'd like to remind you of about those roses and thorns. And I say fuck you. I hope something useful comes out of this. But I'm not sure it's going to be so independent and roses without thorns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u142	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First, I have to say, I don't know if some of the debaters are fooling around or if you really don't want to understand or if you really misunderstand. No property is tolerated anywhere. It is owned by the State and is owned by the State. However, the management is being carried. I understand that it is difficult for you to understand when this management is being carried on. In your previous mandate, when you were given to run and run the country, you said, "State, that's me!" And that's how you managed and operated with this country. The result, which I think will be passed by this law if it is adopted, and this agency will not repeat that we will sell the entire Slovenian steel industry for 100 million and buy a parking space in Russia for 140 million. This story, I think, can't happen again. As far as the sale of state shares and the purchase of shares in state management are concerned, this story can no longer be repeated, in my opinion. The former Minister of Economy, who is so smart today and is talking about the strategies of the previous government, about the disposal and handling of state property, and he mentioned today to Telekom, I remembered how you have written down the handling and management of Telekom in that strategy. And I'm asking if, as recorded in 2006, Telekom's shares came to market. Today, however, the value of Telekom’s share, which you wrote down in the strategy in 2006, is also in the government’s programme that it will come before you go to "tender" for the sale of Telekom. Did you do three-quarters of the stuff you wrote in there on that paper that's so fat? And there's 26 Febs, and that's why things didn't work out. And that's why I prefer to agree, in this situation, that we have one feud, that one will be transparent and transparent, not 26 Febs, and today we don't know anything about how these things were handled. But some of us know, and I've given you a case. We sold the entire steel industry for 100 million and bought a parking lot in Russia for 140 million state money.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u144	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u145	I don't know what the state has to do with Intereuropa, with a company that is not state-owned and how it can influence decisions made by a private company. On the Slovenian steel industry, we have had several discussions in the National Assembly and in this debate we have seen that the public "tender" was the basis of which the highest price was reached. I do not believe that you are all so naive among Members, especially I do not believe that the Secretary of State is so naive or that she would not know what it says in this law. So you're obviously deliberately deceiving the public, deliberately deceiving and speaking what's not in the marriage, which is very ugly and bad. The law sets out very clearly what capital investment management means within the meaning of the provisions of this Act. It is very clear that, among other things, capital investment is also available. Furthermore, the availability of capital investments means the sale, replacement or any other legal transaction on the basis of which the holding of shares is transferred to another legal or natural person. That's what the law says, and that's what the agency will do, and that's what the council of agencies, three people will do. Two of you will decide. Two will decide on the ownership of the billions of Slovenian assets, and two will decide which directors will sit in the future of these capital companies in the management hotels, as they are also going under the law of the Supervisory Council of Darsa, the Assembly of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, the Management Board of the Slovenian Indemnity Society and so on. That's what the law says. All you have to do is read it. The Agency will be obliged to comply with the rules governing the availability of all other cases, as stated by the Secretary of State. Of course, but a key rule, the regulation is hereby repealed, the whole regulation, which speaks of the availability of the financial assets of the State and the municipalities, is being fully repealed for the purposes of this law. It is said that this regulation will apply to municipalities, for a few tens of thousands of euro of assets, where the process is complicated to disability, appreciation, commission, three commissions and so on. Here, when it comes to billions of assets, these four sales methods are written in the law without all the other activities that need to be carried out for transparent sale. This law also speaks of evaluation and explicitly speaks of, if it is less than 25%, there is no need for appreciation. The one you're talking about selling Mercator. It was based on valuation and was less than 25%. This law will not require appreciation for such a share, nor will it be necessary. 25% of the limit is that the property that is the subject of sale is not valued, the advantage is not important. We know that a 100% share can only be worth a few thousand euros, and in this case even a careful review of a few percentages may be worth a few million, some 10, even a few 100 million euros, and there is no need for appreciation. It's all in this law that we have on the table today. Why did I say that pensioners would be on the streets? It is very clear in this law that what is being abolished and repealed is that article of the law which refers to the share of the Insurance Company Triglav, which was transferred directly to the pension fund in 2008, not Kad, because in Kad was in 2007, this was against the referendum and was then transferred directly to the pension fund in 2008 only in the management of Kad. In Article 40 of this Law, pensioners are not only subject to administrative justifications for this money and the effects of this money, because an article which says that the property derived from this title goes to the pension register. This Article shall be repealed as Articles of the law which refer to the capital fund, where it expressly states that the capital fund covers the operating costs, etc., and that it provides earmarked funds for the pension fund. The Article of the Law on DARS, which speaks of the Supervisory Council, is hereby repealed. An article of the law referring to the Assembly and the Administrative Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society, etc., is repealed. After this Property or Management Act, in this sense, these agencies in the Capital Society, the Slovenian Compensation Society, the Consulting and Management Company, which has numerous properties, in the Slovenian Railways, the Aerodrome Ljubljana. Practically all assets will be concentrated in a few people and decision-making also, because the definition of management speaks of availability, it is said, of all legal transactions that mean transfer to another natural legal person. Normally, this purchase will come into the budget, normally, yes, but it will be decided by a very small circle of people. And that's a scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u146	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would point out once again that in this law, the first thing is, however, at your request and also welcome your request, I thank you for having been given the opportunity to say in the first reading of this law a little more together that all the time planned opponents of the law ignore the fact that it is very clear that the National Assembly adopts every three years a three-year national asset management strategy managed by this agency, that the Government adopts an annual asset management plan and that without these two documents, even if there were 100 members of the board and 100 members of the Council, there would not be a single share in any company that is partly or entirely owned by the State, not to sell that this would be in the strategy and in the annual management plan. But more importantly, something else is important, and I think we're going to have to focus here on making the law thorough again, and not with this very negative charge, we're going to read it. For it is a matter of withdrawing, I think it is very clear in the explanation of the law from the beginning that, in fact, the administration of state property is now dispersed in, I think that if we went to look, I did not count, I apologize, but, if we look at the transitional provisions precisely that repealing the individual articles of the individual laws that the colleague has just been talking about, it is very clear to me how many ministries and how many companies, other funds and so on, in fact, how dispersed management is, how, I will say, can also be undirected. In fact, some common objectives do not follow because it is easy to coordinate between such a multitude of bodies, organisations, societies, in fact, very difficult and therefore good for management to concentrate. But this is about governance in the sense that the ongoing operations of all companies managed by this agency are ongoing, management, management, planning and so on in companies themselves. It is said that in fact this way the management of state property is depoliticized and I think that once for change it would be right to talk about various national interests, to ask ourselves how the national interest was pursued, for example, when selling the Slovenian steel industry. We could list another company that has certainly been sold contrary to Slovenian national interest or society, which has, for example, ceased to work because someone once decided that we would not do so again. As a result of the sale of one company or a major share of one company in Slovenia, we have a complete spread in two very large complexes, economic ones. A complete spread and a very diverse and diverse one, because we wanted to withdraw or relieve the country of this great responsibility, because it is said that at that time the state was considered to be a bad host, we now hear from the mouth of representatives of the same political option, which once said that the state was a bad host and therefore everything must be sold, now at once there is no bad host and good that the management of the state property, the state capital - the real estate, of course, but the capital, is not transferred to management. The property, it's not true it's being tolerated. Insurance company Triglav, the share that belongs to the pension fund or indirectly to the pensioners, is still its property because it is either a state insurance company or a state pension fund. And I think we're having a little bit of an exaggeration today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u148	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 34th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. On the eve of the day-to-day agenda, this is on the exploratory proposal for a decision on the level of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2010. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the decision, to the chairman of the committee, Mr Vink Gorenak, for a further explanation of the draft decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We could be a little more united this time than in previous discussions. At its 14th meeting, on 13 January 2010, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for the allocation of funds for co-financing of political parties from the 2010 budget of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On this basis, the Committee has drawn up a proposal for a decision on the amount of resources belonging to a particular political party from the State budget in 2010 to be forwarded to the National Assembly. It's a legal basis. In accordance with the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 23 of the Political Parties Act and under Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt the following decision on the amount of the funds belonging to each political party from the State budget for 2010. As is known, this is prescribed by law. In the media, there were a number of records that, between the time of the government's proposal and the hearing at the National Assembly, political parties in the National Assembly increased the funds by 5%, and there was some condemnation. So let me give you numbers or let me tell you the following facts. In 2009, the financing of political parties took place in two parts. In the first half of the year, according to the rules, when the budget balance was adopted, political parties have reduced their funds, as you know. The proposal for 2010 is that it sums up, somehow, the average funding for last year. This means that still around 5% was lower than at the beginning of 2009 and 5% higher than in December, as the average for 2009. In numbers this means monthly, I will round the numbers: SD - 68 thousand euros, SDS - 65, Indeed - 22, DeSUS - 18, SNS - 14, SLS and SMS - 13 and LDS - 13 thousand, NSI - 9 thousand and Lipa - 6 thousand euros. I'd like to point out that I've been rounding the numbers. The total monthly number is 234.082,041. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Mag. Milan Martin Cwickl, Secretary General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u151	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government in the building, which is under the authority of the Secretary-General of the Government, is actually the second time before this National Assembly on the decision on how much resources should be made available to political parties from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. For the first time, we have proposed this under the 2010 budget and let me say that the Government proposes the exact same amount of resources for 2010 as it was in 2009, which, as has been said, was reduced in 2009 by the Borut Pahor's Government's proposal to help political parties to face the financial and economic crisis. I think that before this assembly and the Slovenian public it is necessary to say that, with the 2009 budget rebalance, we have significantly reduced spending rights for material expenditure, for fixed assets, for wages, to a total of more than half a billion euros, in view of the 2009 budget adopted, which was adopted in November 2007. And within this reduction, it was proposed, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, also the nominal reduction of political parties' funds, by the government of Janez Janša proposed 2 million 941 thousand to 2 million 808 thousand euro 989. And the same amount of resources as the two was reduced in 2009, we are also proposing for 2010. We estimate that in the year in which we are still facing the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, it is not possible to increase the resources available for co-financing of political parties. We are therefore proposing today that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for the allocation of funds per month for the co-financing of political parties, as already adopted by the National Assembly at the time of adoption of the 2010 budget. Unfortunately, this must be decided twice in accordance with the Law on Co-financing of Political Parties. Article 23 of the Law on political parties refers to the need to do so once again after the annual quota has been set, including the monthly quota. This is, of course, justified, given that we can also have elections in a particular financial year, for example, in 2008. This is why the monthly cut is proposed and this monthly cut for individual political parties is not even higher than the average monthly cut in 2009. We consider this to be the right thing to do. Or in the follow-up measures proposed by the Government in accordance with today's Stability Programme, either with the 2010 rebalancing or with the 2011 budget changes and then the 2012 budget, these resources will need to be reduced, and the Government and the National Assembly will decide when we reach this point. It is therefore important that political parties, with a nominal reduction in their resources in 2009, contribute to the resolution of the financial crisis, given the amount of funding originally earmarked for 2009. Therefore, it is also appropriate that the same nominal volume of funds is not increased, and the nominal volume of resources as was reduced in 2009 is also allocated for 2010. So much for the government's opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision will be discussed in its entirety. Only the government representative and the applicant have been notified. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments to the proposal for a decision have been tabled. The assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 34. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 37. OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA TO THE DRAFT AMENDMENT OF THE PROTOCOL AMENDMENT PROTOCOL (heading 36) ON TRANSITIONAL REGULATION (EU TREATY) WITH REGARD TO THE COMPOSITION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT. The proposal for a position was tabled by the Government. I would like to give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal, but he is not. Let me move on. And if, in the meantime, the government's representative comes to give him the word. The proposal for a position was considered by the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union as a competent working body. I give the floor to the president, Mrs Darja Lovtijar Bebler, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. On 15 January 2010, the Committee on European Union Affairs, at its 42nd meeting as a competent working body, considered the proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia until the draft amendments to the Protocol amending the Protocol [[No. 36]] on the transitional arrangements for the composition of the European Parliament, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly on 7 January 2010. No amendments were tabled on the proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft protocol is the legal basis which will provide more Members to the Republic of Slovenia after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. This draft protocol amends the Protocol in force to the Treaty of Lisbon, which provides that the number of members and the composition of the European Parliament shall remain the same as at the time of the entry into force of the Treaty, i.e. on 1 December 2009. The draft protocol, however, provides for an increase in the number of Members for the 12 Member States of the European Union from the current 736 to 754, including Slovenia for several. The Kingdom of Spain therefore proposed to amend the Treaty of Lisbon in December 2009. In accordance with the procedure, consultations between the institutions of the European Union are now under way. In February or no later than March this year, we expect the signing of a new protocol by the governments of the Member States. The amendments will enter into force once they have been ratified by all Member States in accordance with their constitutional rules. If all instruments of ratification are deposited, the Protocol will enter into force on 1 December 2010. The Government supports the content of the draft protocol as its adoption by the Republic of Slovenia will allow more Members in the European Parliament. While the Committee debate noted that the proposal for a position and draft protocol showed how the procedure for ratification and entry into force of the Protocol, and not when the Slovenian representative would actually receive the status of a Member in the European Parliament. The Republic of Slovenia will, however, be subject to arrangements to include the mandate of the eighth Member of the European Parliament to be a candidate or candidate from that list of candidates who would or would have had this seat in view of the outcome of the vote in the elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament on 7 June 2009. Therefore, it was expected that the Republic of Slovenia would make a consistent effort to implement this Protocol. Following the end of the discussion, the following decision was adopted: EU Affairs Committee, Proposal for a Opinion of the Republic of Slovenia, pending draft amendments to the Protocol amending the Protocol [[No. 36]] on the transitional arrangements [[to the Treaty on European Union]] With regard to the composition of the European Parliament, it supports and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Procedural, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We don't have a government representative right now. We're to some extent right that I volunteered, the representative of the government is here. [[...]] But I was going to suggest that if this is not the case, we should stop for 10 minutes, given that we are a little faster at work and to some extent understood that there was no representative for this point. I'm withdrawing the motion now because the government's representative has arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u156	Because I wanted to give the floor to the first representative of the parliamentary group and you have rushed me with this procedural proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the government. Ma'am mag. Andrej Jerin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u157	Dear Members and Members. We are considering amending the Protocol on Transitional Arrangements [[to the Treaty on European Union]] concerning the composition of the European Parliament. The text of the draft protocol before us is the legal basis for an agreement reached at the European Council in 2008 on changes in the composition of the European Parliament. Amendments bring a different number of Members to the European Parliament. In particular, the Protocol provides for an increase in the number of Members for the 12 Member States of the European Union by increasing the total number from the current 736 to the new 754, which means an increase in the number of Members for one also for the Republic of Slovenia. In order to regulate this agreement, Spain proposed last December to amend the Treaty of Lisbon. In February or no later than March, we can expect the signing of the protocol by the governments of the Member States. Since this is the case for a change in the primary legislation of the European Union, that is to say the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December last year, in accordance with the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, the Council of State is the one that discusses and takes a position on changes to the treaties on which the Union is founded before deciding in the institutions of the European Union. Amendments will enter into force as soon as they are ratified by all Member States, of course in accordance with their constitutional rules. If all instruments of ratification are deposited, the Protocol is to enter into force on 1 December 2010. During the period between the signature of the Protocol by the Member States and its implementation, Member States receiving an additional mandate, as Slovenia also says, have the possibility to designate an additional observer in the European Parliament. In this regard, the National Assembly has already adopted amendments to the Law on Elections of Members to the European Parliament, which entered into force last December, which provides for the establishment of an additional Member on the basis of the outcome of the elections to the European Parliament of July 2009. This will therefore form the basis for determining the observer status at the time of the signing of the Protocol and transform the observer into a Member. It is envisaged that the President of the European Parliament will send a letter to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia immediately after the signing of the Protocol by the governments of the Member States calling on the National Assembly to send an additional observer to Slovenia before the Protocol enters into force in Brussels. The National Assembly should also forward the name of the observer candidate to the European Parliament if, of course, the National Assembly for the Appointment of Observers also decides. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore supports the Protocol as it is favourable for Slovenia. This is the legal basis that will allow Slovenia to have more Members in the European Parliament and thus the greater impact of Slovenia on the work of this institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Protocol or Draft Amendments to the Protocol, and so on, which is before us today, is one of the European Union's rare protocols, of which we have discussed in considerable detail in the National Assembly before the Government has sent it to us for consideration. This is because it has been debated with the amendment of electoral legislation, which provides for the way in which the 8th Member or Member of the Republic of Slovenia is elected to the European Parliament. This Protocol number 36 is also mentioned in this Act, which I have just mentioned, on a proposal from the Committee or as an amendment. Therefore, it is likely that the Secretary of State did not state exactly the consequences of this Protocol. In addition, in my opinion, which we have adopted as an electoral legislation, which provides for a way of electing the eighth Member or Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, we have clearly stated that that law is not the basis for who, if an observer in the European Parliament, will be, but that the election of the eighth Member will be definitively clear and confirmed only when this protocol, as we speak today, is confirmed. The Group of Members, as has been said, has already pointed out that Slovenia's right to the eighth Member of the European Parliament, based on the Treaty of Lisbon, is not immediate and is not automatic, that it needs some legal basis as represented by this Protocol number 36. As has already been said, it will enter into force once it has been ratified in all the Member States of the European Union by 1 December of this year. Slovenia, of course, has an interest that this Protocol will enter into force as soon as possible, so it is not the one to block its acceptance. Today we are dealing with it, we believe that our government will also sign it. And when the time is right, it will be ratified by the National Assembly. At the same time, Slovenia cannot be the one who, even if it had such a great interest, could have preceded this process. It is simply an agreement between all members of the European Union and these things usually run more smoothly than they might have wanted. As we say, support for the amendments to the Protocol is not questionable by our Group of Members. We have already pointed out its importance in previous amendments to European Union legislation, and I think that there should not be any difficulty in other parliamentary groups as Slovenia gets this legal basis, that the European Union will finally implement this part of the Treaty of Lisbon, which foresees an increase in the European Parliament, because in this way the voice of our citizens and citizens will also be more represented in, so to speak, conditionally, a wider country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a position and a proposal for a decision by the Committee. We support the amendment and supplementation of Protocol No 36 and thereby the transitional arrangements for the composition of the European Parliament, as this means that Slovenia will receive one or more MEPs in the European Parliament. The draft protocol therefore constitutes a legal basis which will provide the Republic of Slovenia with a seat in the European Parliament after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon more because it amends the existing Protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon and foresees an increase in the number of Members for the 12 Member States of the European Union, from the current 736 to 754. It is particularly important for us to have a Member or a Member of Parliament, including Slovenia, through the implementation of the Protocol. Slovenia has become an active and recognizable member of the European Union. Both in front of Slovenia and before the European Union, there are major challenges, and important decisions are being taken on the future of the EU, which will also have a strong impact on the situation in us. In front of the European Union is the preparation of new strategic documents, an appropriate exit strategy for a rapid exit from the economic and financial crisis. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive budget reform, which must be more development-oriented, support rural development, energy security and maintain a response to environmental change. Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the role of the EU Parliament will be increased, and it is therefore important that Slovenia, as it is said, has one voice to represent our interests more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it is the fact that everyone in this House will support the adoption of a draft protocol amending the Protocol. Thank God the Treaty of Lisbon has been adopted, giving it the opportunity to additionally fill or form 18 seats in the European Parliament so that there will be 754 of the current 736 seats in the European Parliament. 12 Member States had this right. Slovenia has thus acquired one more Member. The most won by Spain - 4, our neighbours 2, Sweden also seems to me to be 2 cities and France by 2 cities and a few countries by 1 city. The terms of the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Protocol are also very clear. Under point (b) of the three points of Slovenia, it corresponds to the content that, on the basis of the outcome of the elections to the European Parliament from 4 to 7 June 2009, we can send or appoint an additional Member of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. The only question that remains open is the entry into force of the Conference of Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, which is now to be convened. After ratification and once all instruments of ratification have been deposited, the Protocol will enter into force. Let us hope that these ratifications will continue this year so that the Protocol enters into force on 1 December this year. However, if not, the Protocol will enter into force when the last instruments of ratification are deposited and we also agree with Slovenia's support, i.e. with Slovenia's position that Slovenia supports the desire that all the instruments be ratified and deposited this year and that it enters into force with 1. 12th, I think, 10. In short, we agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Draft amendments to the Protocol amending the Protocol [[No. 36]] means that legal basis which will provide a Member more to the Republic of Slovenia under the Treaty of Lisbon. The draft amendments to the Protocol under consideration, as has been said on several occasions, amends the Protocol in force to the Treaty of Lisbon, which provides that the number of members and the composition of the European Parliament remain the same as at the time of the entry into force of the Treaty, i.e. 1. 12. 2009 However, for the remainder of the period between the entry into force of this Protocol and the end of the parliamentary mandate 2009/2014, the draft amendments to the Protocol provide for the establishment of eighteen additional seats for 12 Member States, including one additional seat for Slovenia. May I also recall that, at its December 2009 meeting, the European Parliament has already adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members of the Republic of Slovenia, which introduces the solution to appoint an eighth Member from Slovenia, the candidate for that list of candidates who was elected as the eighth Member in the light of the outcome of the vote in the elections of the Member of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament in June 2009. And with this, Slovenia has also decided, probably, for the most rational and economical solution at one time or another. By implementing amendments to Protocol 36, which will implement the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon and allow some members of the European Parliament to have more Members, the Republic of Slovenia will be able to establish an amended and updated Law on the Election of Members of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Parliament with effective implementation. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support and vote in favour of the proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the content of the draft amendments to the Protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Since Slovenia receives an additional Member, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the relevant ministries to support the other Member States as soon as possible for the ratification of the Protocol. We are concerned that the response period is 29. 1. So tomorrow, so the State Assembly is only considering the protocol today and we have lost valuable time. Is the delay due to the fact that the additional mandate belongs to the Slovenian Democratic Party? Since any additional Slovenian vote is important and welcome in Brussels, we will support the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia's position to the Protocol in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a position. Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. He's not here. Mr. Vito Rozej. He's quitting. Mr. Miran Györek. He's quitting, too. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. She's not here. Mr. Lucky Friend. He's not here either. Mr. Franco Yuri. Not at all. Mr. Sylven Tiny. Mr. Aloys Posedel. Mr. Bogdan Barovich. You're giving up. Mr. Milenko Ziherl. So do I. I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal. The assembly will decide on a proposal for a position in line with the timing of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 34. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 33. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a decision on the preparation of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Since there is no motion for a decision, President of the Committee, Mr Willi Trofenik, or representatives of the Government, allow me to suspend the meeting in 10 minutes and continue it in 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u169	We continue with the adjourned session at 33. A TIME OF DAY I've already predicted. I give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the decision, Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs Renati Brunskole, for a further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President. At its meeting on 1 December 2009, on the basis of Article 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development set out the text of the decision on the preparation of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development and, pursuant to Article 112 and 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed it for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee proposed that decision in view of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015, which was adopted by the National Assembly at the end of October 2009 and entered into force on 1 January this year. This law, as considered by the National Assembly in its examination procedure, also does not contain objective criteria or conditions which would constitute an exception to the provisions of the applicable law on the promotion of coherent regional development adopted in 2005 and amended in 2006. Thus, it does not regulate situations for specific aid and the allocation of development support to each region. Since the adoption of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015, a number of municipalities in the various regions of Slovenia, among the first ones in the area of the White Region, have assessed that, according to the available data on GDP per capita and the economic and economic situation, which have deteriorated significantly in the context of the economic and financial crisis, they are also entitled to support, which would have been determined by specific law, and provided with a programme approach and adequate financial means to restructure the economy, thereby gradually catching up with other Slovenian regions. The Committee's discussion highlighted in particular the many problems encountered in implementing the law on the promotion of coherent regional development by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy and municipalities. The current legislation does not effectively address the development problems of individual municipalities and less developed areas of the country, so many municipalities, as I have already mentioned, expect the early adoption of intervention laws to promote sustainable development in their area in the broadest sense. In doing so, it was particularly pointed out at the meeting of the Committee that the preparation of the new law as soon as possible is also directly linked to the timely acquisition of funds from the European Union Cohesion Fund. The Committee and the Government consider that the development differences in Slovenia are large and that the promotion of coherent regional development needs to be regulated systematically, so that the new law, on the basis of agreed criteria, will enable all those who fulfil them to receive adequate development support and financial assistance. In view of the fact that the Government has assessed at the meeting of the Committee that it can draw up a proposal for a law within nine months because it has to obtain the quality professional basis already commissioned and produced by the OECD, the Committee has proposed a period of nine months for the preparation of a proposal for a law. The new law aims to ensure more effective implementation of specific regional policy measures in priority areas through the prior coordination of the activities of ministries and other service bodies in directing their regional incentives to key regional projects from regional development programmes. Therefore, the Committee considers that it would make sense to support and support such a proposal, i.e. a period of nine months, as any further discussion would also lead to a large number of laws throughout Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. You don't want to? Okay. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues! Your Honor! The conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, which proposes to the College of the President of the National Assembly, is well heard, to include a decision on the preparation of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development on the agenda of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that it is indeed the last time in our country that it begins to develop in harmony. More. We are very pleased if you have really begun to think honestly about coherent regional development in the coalition, but we are afraid that this is not the case, since you received a call from White Krajina at the end of November last year, and so far there has been no reaction. The government is also saying that it can draw up a bill within nine months because it has to obtain quality professional grounds that are already commissioned and produced with the assistance of the OECD. We certainly can't talk about systemic solutions when we talk about changes and additions to once the Capital Act and the Development Support Act of the Pomur region. We cannot talk about coherent regional development in these laws, as a law on development support to the White Country should then be adopted as a matter of urgency in the period 2010-2015. In this province too, economic indicators are similar to those in Pomure. In the area of Bela Krajina and neighbouring municipalities, Kočevje, Kostel and Osilnica, last November the unemployment rate was 15%, in Pomurje 19%, significantly higher than the Slovenian average, which was 10.1% in November. The average gross salary in Pomour last November was €1,309 and in the area of the White Land and neighbouring municipalities was slightly less than €1,200. Of course, there are more areas with similar economic indicators in our country. It's also beautifully written in the explanation of the conclusion. I quote: "As the development differences in Slovenia are large, sustainable development should be encouraged in the broadest sense to activate potentials in Slovenian regions. In particular, in regions with the lowest level of development, in municipalities with special development problems, in border areas and in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, the Roma ethnic community. The inclusion of Slovenia in the Single European Economic Area has also created conditions for an open regional development concept that goes beyond regional and national borders and includes the natural human and economic potentials of neighbouring regions and countries." We certainly agree in the Slovenian People's Party that Slovenia needs to be divided into regions, and we also know which political parties have helped not to have them. In the Slovenian People's Party, it is clear to us that you need this decision in order to be able to say the law on development support for White Krajina and the municipalities of Kočevje, Kostel and Osilnica between 10 and 15 we do not need it because we will arrange it in the new law on the promotion of coherent regional development. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment and today an amendment proposing that, within six months of the implementation of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region between 10 and 15, a law on development support to the Beli Krajina and the municipalities of Kočevje, Kostel and Osilnica should be drawn up between 10 and 15 and a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development. And if this amendment receives support, we will really prove that we finally want more consistent regional development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Decision on the preparation of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development. In Slovenia we have seen much greater differences between regions. These differences have not occurred since yesterday, these differences have occurred over a longer period of time, and the reasons for this can certainly be considered to be irregular legislation or weak legislation in this area. It is true that we have recently passed a law on aid in Pomurje, for the development of Pomurje, but this is a "separate" solution to a problem which for us in the DeSUS Group does not count so much as the following, when laws to help the White Country and the law to help Kočev are also included in the procedure, because these proposals of the law could be recalculated in a number of other regions. These include Koroška and perhaps others. It is true that the economic crisis has increased these differences and that we fear for the future that there have been greater negative shifts in some regions with regard to GDP, with regard to unemployment. It would therefore be appropriate to immediately start drafting a law on more coherent regional development, which would be able to help those regions with resources but which have been plunged into another situation by the economic and financial crisis. In this way, in the DeSUS Group, we imagine that this coherent regional development would be possible in Slovenia, but we are not in any way in favour of the proposal that this problem should be resolved separately, that is to say in a separate way, because then probably the National Assembly and, of course, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development would have much work to do and the situation would not have been resolved in a systematic way. Today, we have before us a proposal to conclude that within nine months of this day a law on coherent regional development is being drawn up, so with all that I have said, we support it, we will support it and only do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be moved by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is correct that the State has adopted the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. It would also be right for the State to adopt a law on development support to the White Country, because, with all the initiatives and information received by the Government and the competent ministry, it is clear that it is necessary. With all due respect and understanding that the Government wants to help everyone with a comprehensive solution, such an initiative needs to be supported, but not now, but to help those who need it. Our promises and every effort of the government to try, despite the long-term search for and retrieval of information from the OECD, on the basis of the documents they receive, the so-called working documents, within six months, to prepare this law within nine months. It is right, as soon as possible, that - our position is so - takes into account the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party in full and should also help White Krajina. Or if you wanted to, in other words, if you had the moment to choose, you would have made a different proposal if you could have made it. I would say that the Law on the capital of Slovenia should wait nine months or until the end of 2010 and the money provided for in this law, which was adopted, the State is committed to the Development Support Act of the Pomurska Region. That would be fair and fair. Ljubljana will not be rich or poor because of those millions and this law, with all due respect for the capital. Thank God that people have a job, even in Ljubljana, that they go to Ljubljana and that it is our capital and that it is beautiful. But I'm sure the White Land needs the millions more than it needs right now. Marriage is just a means to help right now. By the end of this year, however, it is regrettable that all the ideas and papers we will adopt cannot be used in the White landscape for new jobs or for improving social, economic, economic, transport and other conditions. I understand two reasons, the first slightly more stated by the Minister on the working body, that is to say, to provide quality input data. Of course they do, and I believe they will. The other reason given by Mr Minister was the establishment of the provinces. This, however, seems to me to be a long story that should not have an impact on the coming law on coherent regional development at this time, because there will be no other provinces than this law. In the Slovenian National Party, once again, we want, ask or demand, however, that the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party be adopted and that, even in this case, with development support, help whoever really needs it, or that it is assessed that it is not and that this assessment is justified and we all go together, everyone helps as much as possible to prepare a law on coherent regional development, which will also help others. Don't worry, I don't forget there are other regions. At this point, we have 12 statistical, more or less, in a situation like this or a different one that is not with flowers laid. However, if there is any business option, by December I will replace the Main City Act with an intervention law for the White Krajina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u177	The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u178	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Director of Directorate, colleagues and colleagues. We are convinced in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber that the law on the promotion of coherent regional development is urgently needed. After the adoption of the intervention law for Pomurje, we receive initiatives from other regions where they want to see that the situation is not significantly better, similar to the intervention laws or when the law for Pomurje is passed, it has been agreed that a new law on regional harmonious development should be adopted as soon as possible. Since we believe that the multiplication of intervention laws does not make sense, we support a quality system law that will ensure coherent regional development throughout Slovenia, especially because the media shows that we will not be able to make up for coherent regional development very quickly. The situation in Slovenia is as serious as in other countries. Currently we have a system law that is bad, and we have to patch it up with intervention laws, which is not good for the same development of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democrats' Club, we are convinced that coherent regional development is one of the most important measures that can help Slovenia exit the crisis, open up new opportunities for the people of Slovenian regions and help to alleviate the social and economic differences between the various parts of Slovenia and help bring about a faster exit from the economic crisis and provide new jobs across Slovenia. Since we believe that the time has come for us to improve the situation in Slovenia in this area, we will support the proposal for a decision on the drafting of a new law on coherent regional development in the Liberal Democrats Club. However, we will not support the amendments, because we feel that we are not adopting the text of the new law today, but just a decision on the drafting of the law, so we will open these things when the law is on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kampush. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u180	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We will support the proposal of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the Group of Social Democrats. We are convinced that we urgently need a quality system law on coherent regional development. In doing so, I should mention the direct link between coherent regional development and strong provinces. If Slovenia had strong provinces, this would contribute to more coherent regional development, more efficient governance of the country and decentralisation. We would make better use of our membership in the European Union and also better tackle problems in the current acute economic situation. That's why I'm saying it again. The Social Democrats will support the decision to draft a new law on coherent regional development, and will advise the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to wait 9 months for the drafting of the law as set out in the decision, but to prepare the law as soon as possible. The visit of the Government in White Krajina and Kočevska next week means an assessment of the situation, the situation prevailing in these areas and, I suppose, a priority solution to these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u182	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, adopted in 2006, took account of the development of individual regions and the allocation of funds was also appropriate. However, the allocation of resources within the development regions has been left to regional development agencies and the decision-making of all mayors to the worlds of the regions. Projects of a regional nature or of inter-agency projects had the advantage of drawing on these funds. Some regional development agencies have done this job well and others have done less. In some regions, these funds were simply distributed to municipalities according to the population criterion. Thus, those large or urban congregations in the region who did not most need this help were given more. However, most of such projects were co-financed and eligible. The municipalities have invested a lot of resources and work to prepare and implement these projects. The municipalities ensured their own participation in their budgets and development programmes plans and there was no invitation to tender in 2000. Moreover, funds have been blocked for which projects have already been launched from previous calls. This caused great damage to both the municipalities and the whole country. The fifth call is almost a year late. While full steam projects should be implemented and European funds should be drawn up in such an accelerated manner, the Government comes up with the idea of a new law on coherent regional development, there may also be an idea to change the operational programme for regional development, possibly as a colleague from White Krajina says, but it is a centralisation and an attempt to re-analyse these funds for large state projects. The year 2013 or 2015, when it is the last time to draw on these funds, will come very quickly. In Brussels, the funds paid by Slovenia will still be available, let alone to draw on more. Indeed, certain shortcomings have been identified in the enforcement of the law now in force, some municipalities have taken advantage of this and, in a global way, it was appropriate to draw on it, as confirmed by the European Commission. Perhaps some provisions of the current law should be added to the implementation of already prepared projects, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development has been on the move for several months now. If the drafting of the new law is not just an excuse to block European funds from being drawn up for this purpose, this law will probably come for some other financial perspectives in the light of the time required by the Government to prepare it. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not support the drafting of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development and, above all, not a very long deadline for preparation. We support the adoption of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party on the Bill of Support for White Krajina, and perhaps another area in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the decision and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 27. 1. 2010 and in particular note, supplement or correction of this amendment of 28. 1. 2010 I am therefore putting to the debate a decision and an amendment by the SLS Group and an amendment to this amendment. I'm asking you to sign up. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? Yeah. Please, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! The debate on coherent regional development in this country is always interesting. But usually this kind of debate, this kind of talk doesn't bring much. Unfortunately, we have been a single country for over 18 years and there is no major progress in coherent regional development through the statistical regions introduced by the Government by government decree. Of course, if we just look at the gross domestic product per capita in statistical regions, we can see that the saviva with 51% of the gross domestic product per capita in the worst place to the Pomurski region is, of course, 53%. Of course, if we compare this to the Central Slovenian region. Or if we look at the gross per capita product by statistical regions in 1995 and from 1995 to 2005, we can see that this gross product has increased by more than 100% in the Central Slovenian region in these statistical regions. Well, and of course, some of the data also show us specific figures that the movement of jobs in the Central Slovenian region is also the largest and, of course, is increasing significantly faster than in all other regions. These are some of the starting points that have long been said in this country that we should have so-called coherent regional development. However, if we want to have coherent regional development, we should have a second-degree local government. For the last time, a second - grade local government was said to be in the country for the sixth time. For the first time in fact, we took this seriously in the previous term, when Dr. Ivan Žagar was headed by the Ministry, very successfully or far most successfully so far. After all, it is not surprising, since he was also a mayor for ten years and had a lot of experience on this basis. He's the one who made all the legislation. The most important laws are certainly two, this is the financing and transfer of tasks to the provinces. Politically speaking, these two are not really the most important, of course this is the number of provinces. And if on 1 February 2008, when I think the SD had drawn the black flag, and still held it in hand today, over the provinces, there were more votes for four or five Members. Even some who were in the hall, and I will not talk about them in particular now, have abstained or not voted at all, but have been here, so they have not been identified. And today we would have landscapes where also European funds would be significantly different and we would not have what is happening now, so that a secretary of state can block €300 million in return from the Brussels budget as a net inflow into the state budget. And even less to block the €300 million call for regional development. This is one of the projects in the operational programme. Also on all others, i.e. three operational programmes, the funds are not being used. Otherwise, I hope that, until the next debate we will have in the National Assembly, the Ministry will review all operational programmes and individual sub-programmes, how much funding has been allocated, how many contracts have been signed, not just for regional development, and how much has been paid by the State budget. And what's most important is how much of these reimbursements were from the Brussels cashier's treasury, so the net flow into our budget. We know that in just one year of 4.2 billion 1.5 billion, the previous government has not only signed contracts, but has also signed contracts that unfortunately in more than one year of the Pahor government, this has not happened or more, things have been blocked. In view of the fact that the 2007 period, i.e. towards the middle, the second half of 2007, when the then government negotiated with the European Community operational programmes, the tender was made for 1.5 billion, for regional development, even four calls. Now there was no invitation to tender in one year. The Minister has announced, Mr Gjerkesh, that the second week will be this call, but I am still asking him here today and I do not understand why they do not sign all the funds. Who else are they holding the 90 million for? With such fragmentation, some municipalities, which form an integral part of regional development councils, are composed of mayors and from projects that have been created in municipalities, will not be able to use those until the last call for proposals because they will have to add too much to the projects from their own budget. We know that the project must be worth at least EUR 600,000. In short, if we had regionalisation, if we had regions, then of course all such fruitless debates would be over. Thus, in the sky, we decided in the Slovenian People's Party to propose an amendment to this area in order to provide funds in particular, as for the Pomur region. Tomorrow, of course, we will also prepare MEPs and Members another bill for another area. Slovenian mountains, Haloze, Styria and so on are also those on the tail of regional development. Do you have any idea what kind of tail they'd still be on if they didn't have their own congregations if they didn't do the basic things of life? These are waterfronts, roads, basic infrastructure, schools, at the end of the day, if you want, including burial sites and some other historical facilities that they have in their management. I think that within nine months something is being prepared for regional development or regions is far too long. On his appearance, the President of the Government of Pahor announced that this was one of his priority projects. Today, given what has come between the Members, it is clear that this project is dead because with some province budget, with some 100 million euros you really can't talk seriously. The previous government moved some 4,000 200 people to the provinces, transferred 1.2 billion euros at an annual level, and 500 or 600 pages of fat law, in which jobs, tasks, were transferred to the provinces. And that could be the only way. I would propose to the Social Democrats, regardless of their participation in the partnership for development, and they agreed with all the proposals that Žagar has put forward to be then 1. 6. They objected because of policy because they did not allow one project for the welfare of the country to be carried out. They looked very personally at this as a party, which, of course, is bad for our country, but now they come with this project, such as they themselves have agreed to come to Parliament with it, and they may take some additional task from the state to the regional area and you will, I believe, be successful. Not the way you're doing it now. I myself will also support the amendment on support for the White Landscape, Kočev, Kostel and Osilnica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u185	I'm asking you to report to the debate. First, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, asked for the floor. Then we'll go after the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would not like this debate to diversify into a number of areas that are being addressed or dealt with by the government service that I am leading. That is why I would like to focus on the coherent regional development law, which is, of course, linked both to the provinces and to the conflict funds. But today we are talking about how and when this law should be submitted to Parliament for discussion or built. During the debate alone, it was pointed out that Slovenia is diverse in its development and, as such, needs different mechanisms in particular areas. However, we also need a system law to do so. Not every area, the Government's desire is not to put out fires, but to create conditions that will allow different areas with different development options to develop evenly in accordance with Slovenia. Of course, we also received initiatives for other areas, not only in the Pomurje areas. However, the Government does not support a model of coherent regional development based on intervention laws. Such receptions were appropriate in exceptional situations, such as the closure of coal mines in Zasavje, several successive earthquakes in Sosoča or the explosion of unemployment due to the bankruptcy of two carrier companies in Pomurje. That is why we want to focus all our energy, all our efforts on making a quality law on coherent regional development with quality inputs, as I said, not only our experts, but also experts from abroad, colleagues who have been working for ten years on the implementation of the coherent regional development itself and will be able to help with its composition. This law, which we now have, has the main disadvantage of being difficult to implement. The concept itself is not as problematic as the problematic lack of instruments that would allow action in different cases, in extreme cases, as has been shown in cases of economic and economic crisis, which has further deepened the differences between regions in Slovenia. Linking the issue of the establishment of landscapes to coherent regional development is, in parallel, possible but not exclusive. If the provinces, the establishment of the provinces are a political issue, the law on coherent regional development cannot and must not be. That is why we want to make such a system law that will not require any laws in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I will personally support the SLS amendment. I agree with some of the debates that, with regard to the law on coherent regional development, it is essential to regulate matters systematically and work in this direction. The support of the White landscape itself is a priority towards the third development axis of the southern part and the maintenance of state roads, as the white landscape on the one hand has neither roads nor sufficient electricity supply, nor telecommunications. If we compare it with other regions, it has no medical facilities or anything similar to development, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you. I myself will support this amendment and also stress that the obvious exceptions confirm the rule. The Pomour Act was an exception and we must be aware that this exception in the future also constitutes a rule. And when we talked about the adoption and drafting of the Pomura Act, it was also very clear by the Government that we are opening up a new way of solving regional problems in Slovenia, that is to say by adopting express laws because there are some very serious needs to address differences in development. These are intervention laws, which have a limited duration and we accept them to bring this area to the level that is on average present in Slovenia. I am so truly warning the Minister that some things have already been going on before he took over this function, and it has been made clear that the Pomour Act is an exception and also an example of how we will resolve such an extremely difficult situation in the future in individual environments. Kočevska has suffered many bankruptcys just like this, has the highest unemployment rate in Slovenia, and meets all the conditions also met by Pomurje to adopt a special law on support for this area. Even if we look at all the other parameters, both by value added, by salary, by number of companies or companies, and also by what programmes are in this environment, it speaks of the fact that some system law cannot solve this. Definitely, if a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development as a system law is to be adopted, this system law must be the legal basis for the adoption of intervention laws for immediate action in areas that have also been affected by the economic and financial crisis in particular during this period. And Kočevska is one of those where it is evident that since 2007 the economic and financial crisis has been far more reflected in Slovenia. While there was no bankruptcy in Mura, this area had the worst indicators due to the economic and financial crisis. As early as August 2009, the unemployment rate was 18%. In Pomura, this happened only after Mura's bankruptcy. Special laws have become a rule, however, unfortunately there will be no future. And the fact is that it will have to be accepted or incorporated into the future system law of coherent regional development. However, if this exception remains legal, these exceptions will also become a rule in the future. And Kočevska will certainly be one of these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word is Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the proposal for a decision on the preparation of a new law on regional coherent development. In fact, I am also sure that we are not discussing the content of this law today. I will be very pleased if the Government prepares such a law that we will be able to discuss seriously in the National Assembly and from which it will be evident that we really want consistent regional development throughout the country. However, since I come from some areas that are not actually significantly less affected than White Krajina or Kočevje, I should be forgiven in some way for not being able to support this amendment, unless it is attributed to this amendment that we also give priority or special consideration to the Central Slovenian Gorges, Haloze and perhaps in Slovenia we could find another employment or municipality that deserves to be given priority regional or developmental treatment. I firmly believe that the law on coherent regional development will not in itself produce results unless we write down concretely the incentives that will bring new money for each area and we will manage this money in such a way as to create added value with new jobs. A coherent regional development not only means a good school, a good road, a water connection, but also means something more. In a coherent regional development, such jobs that add value must be provided. And if added value is generated in some environment, it can result from underdevelopment. However, if we only expect to put money into a region and it will not be fertilized there, there will be no such individual development in this region. In some ways, however, we must be aware that the Republic of Slovenia is not only made up of Ljubljana and its surroundings and urban areas, that in fact in Slovenia there is also a rural area, as was often quoted by Ambassador Pečanov, not about the non-urban area, but about the rural area. I also agree that we have rural areas in Slovenia. And if we want to preserve this rural area in some way, we will have to spend more money for this rural area than for the rest of the developed Slovenia. I therefore expect that in this law on coherent regional development there will be sufficient room for the development of that part of Slovenia, which is urgently needed if we want to not continue to say that we are first-class and second-class citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian. [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone! Let me just say in the introduction that I will support this amendment, because I think I need to help those Slovenian areas that are in trouble. I am sorry, however, that a systemic approach to addressing these problems has not been able to be effective and that there have been two approaches in this mandate that have completely changed the model. As regards areas with major development problems, this is mainly the Pomure Act. As for those who have no problems, this is the Main City Act. Unfortunately, we covered two extremes in the Republic of Slovenia with two laws, areas with bad factors and conditions with one law, partial, and the most successful area in the Republic of Slovenia with another partial law. With this concept, as one of the speakers before me has already said in the debate, we have completely undermined systemicity, equality and so on. Now we're only dealing with these partial solutions. And I think it is right for those who are in major developmental difficulties, but between these areas, the White landscape and Kočevsko, we must listen and help. However, I do not think that just to resolve this with some kind of development aid law will be sufficient. We are solving concrete current issues in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, which we accept. It lists a number of projects, including projects relating to the White Krajina, as well as projects concerning areas leading to Kočevska. And I think it would be very appropriate for all those plans of development programmes that were moved in 2012, 2013, 2014 to move to 2010 and to step up the work on these projects. These are mainly communication-related projects. The fundamental problem in the debates of all Members coming from these areas are communications, links, transport and rail connections. And if we do not activate these accessible issues, access to these areas, then all other projects are in fact more difficult to implement and there is much less chance that other projects will come into play and that they will also be financially effective. I am sorry that when we adopted the budget, some of the amendments that we have proposed and also dealt with areas such as Kočevsko or Bela Krajina have not received sufficient support. I am sorry that these were concrete projects that could already be activated this year and could continue in the coming year. If the numbers in our amendments were too low or perhaps too weak to argue, those who opposed it or because of the area of taking or the level of the amount could complement and enable these projects to be implemented. We have also introduced two laws on development axes into the legislative process. One in the field of roads and the other in the field of railways. I hope that these two laws, which can come into force immediately and can also be activated immediately, will receive sufficient support and that all these development axes, which also cover some other areas with difficult factors, with development problems, will be able to open up, to develop such and different areas and to set matters up there as well as interesting for development projects, tourism projects, including economic projects that are at the heart of these issues. This is how we solve problems where they should not be, for example, in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Right now, we have received information that a bridge across Ljubljana is three times more expensive than viaduct Black Kal on a running subway. Here one wonders how and what things are built into such a project, but we can first of all find that the prices of concrete in the armature are roughly the same, that the fundamental deviations are mainly in the preparatory final parts, in the "preparation" of the construction site, in the promenades, and in the "conclusion" of the construction site, in the pronunciations. Apparently this stream of Ljubljana is so powerful in this work that it is still cheaper if it is only three or four times more expensive than viaduct Black Kal. As long as we save those who are rich enough in this way, it is not surprising that we have such projects in those environments. That is why I would also suggest that, to such solutions as we also propose in the opposition of a broad range, we are somehow more sensible, more receptive, that such projects, such amendments, should also be supported by such laws. You are certainly an area along the Croatian border, an area that is particularly difficult, because there are no better areas on the other side of this border, better zones where certain population migration or employment could occur to support such projects. I think that the area along the entire southern border, which is the farthest from the developed world, deserves special attention, especially attention from all of us Members, because the situation there is actually extremely difficult. I would suggest that all those, including those from the coalition, who will support such a proposal for a decision, might get another member of your fellow Members to actually adopt this proposal. And I also recommend that you give appropriate support to the two laws that are in the process, in the stage of general treatment, this is the law on development axes on state roads, on priority sections of state roads and also on the law that speaks of priority sections of railway work, in order to support these two laws. This actually creates conditions, even conditions, for potential economic investors to be interested. We are aware that we cannot expect development simply because we will invest state resources. Good development can be achieved only when a private initiative takes place, a private initiative, to invest the economy in these areas. But we need to prepare the infrastructure. Here, however, is the task of the state, of the local communities, which is extremely important. Perhaps these things that we are now talking about would be easier to resolve if we had a land law, if we had a province, because then these rounded areas would be dealing with their own development problems. Thus, all are left to some national approaches, to decision-making in remote areas and probably for some sparsely populated areas, where the highest concentration of large beasts per square kilometer, and the lowest concentration of people per square kilometer, is, in fact, very questionable and is not in such areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Brada Pecan has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u196	I will not support this amendment because it continues to break up the system of coherent regional development in Slovenia. I think it would be very necessary and that the Minister and his government service should ensure that the law on coherent regional development is in place as soon as possible, not in nine months, nine months is a very easy time to complete the reform of this law, in which all the criteria that will allow all the regions that are highlighted to be able to achieve the average level of Slovenia as quickly as possible. However, for the law of Pomur, it should also be incorporated into this law and simply abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Since there are still wishes after the debate, please apply. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much again. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have proposed a decision to do so within six months and not nine months. This reduces the deadline, although I personally think it can be done faster, but no one will be able to tell the government if it comes with a proposal for a law after two months. But now that we're talking about it, I think it's better if we save our neighbor's cow if our calf's dead, not if we want a neighbor's cow dead. That's still not good. I agree with the predecessor, Comrade Gumzar, in the part where he said that along with the White Country, Slovenian Gorica, Haloza and so on - colleague Gumzar, I hope you will propose an amendment, and believe that you will have support from the Slovenian People's Party. However, I would certainly like to see, in this law, if you are preparing it, the Minister, predict or tell how many years the remaining regions will reach the Ljubljana region. If things were to develop as they are now, then it would take the Pomur region 34 years if the development of GDP, I think 20,000 euros per capita in Ljubljana, stayed at that and did not change, so it would not rise, it would take 34 years for Pomurje to reach the Central Slovenian region. Or, say, Coastal-Kraška region 9 years old, Zasavska 31 years old and Podravska as a whole 16 years old, Koroška 20 years old and so on. I hope that the marriage will be so ready that these years will shorten. We need to know that the Central Slovenian region will not remain in the same place, and of course we do not want this, and it must develop too, but that the other regions will have a chance for faster development. However, I do not know, I may have overlooked it, but I did not see the Government's decision to set the level of development of the municipalities for 2009, as it was done for 2008. This Decision determining the level of development of municipalities, the so-called IRO, consists of indicators of the development of individual municipalities, the risk indicator of individual municipalities and the development indicator of individual municipalities. If you have done so, it is probably not so difficult, because the data are collected, perhaps even before you prepare this law on coherent regional development, you will somehow give this IRO and those who are the lowest according to these indicators of development, threats and development opportunities to make use of and to develop more rapidly what you have at your disposal. However, you have operational programmes at your disposal, and you know that in some operational programmes, funds will obviously not be spent and could be diverted from those three operational programmes to those regions in order to reduce their backlog. I hope that even when you come from those Premur places in the morning to Ljubljana, we may meet on the road sometime, since 6 a.m. there is a column from Celje. Even though we have a highway, it's all set. Migration, hundreds of people every day from all directions to Ljubljana and the afternoon back, is also a matter of this non-regional development of our country and also of the other indicators that I mentioned earlier. Actually, it is. Colleagues and colleagues! Harmonised regional development only and exclusively with the provinces. This needs to be done in this country, but some of you don't want to say it, because obviously you control it from the position of control of people and projects from the center. After all, this also showed the last parliamentary elections, where you won in the centres and lost out of eight constituencies in three, in five. With the help of some of the bots. Now we're all paying for this in this country, which is not right. This increases unemployment and further produces it. Regardless of the fact that you are in opposition, although this is not our job, we are not helping you, but we are concerned about citizens and citizens. We're proposing good legislation, but you don't accept it. I hope you will at least support this amendment because it reduces those nine months to six months. But I expect you to be more operational and faster and prepare a marriage within two months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u200	In addition, I would like to reinforce the obligation to prepare a special law for White Krajina and Kočevsko, because the south-eastern statistical region composed of Dolenjska, Kočevska and Bela Krajina, and the number of municipalities in Dolenjska is greater in the world of the region than it is in the world of the region, together with the Belo Krajina and the representatives of Kočevska. And voting in the world of the region [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much. You're in red numbers, Mr. Weber. Miran Jerič has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Mr President, the distinguished Minister with a fellow member, fellow Member, fellow Members! I will not support the amendment or amendment alone. In today's debate on the adoption of the decision, we have heard a lot about the drafting of a new law on promoting coherent regional development, and we know that we will have this topic on the emergency agenda soon. We'll find out soon enough. We have discussed this matter twice. We talked a lot about provincial legislation, we talked about elections, we talked about the capital and we could list it. However, we have not focused on the agenda, but I do not think that these things are related to coherent or more equitable regional development in this country. Why don't I support this amendment? If we had a modern system law to promote coherent regional development, I guarantee you we would not need an intervention law for Pomurje either. Then, on the basis of an assessment of the situation, the Government would, on the basis of the measures that I hope, will allow a new modern law to promote coherent regional development, draw up a programme of assistance to this area and provide money in the budget and help the region solve development problems. It can't be just a region's day. This amendment is actually trying to bring another intervention law into the parliamentary procedure, but I think it is better that the Government as soon as possible, but here I agree with the speakers that it is probably nine months too long. I hope that the Government will prepare the law as soon as possible and put it into parliamentary procedure, because otherwise, if these amendments are voted on, you will experience a flood of intervention laws. Here is not only the white landscape, there is Kozyansko, Zasavje, Posočje, Posavije, Koroška. And finally, if we put all this in the amendment, because some recommend, put an amendment on the amendment, and we'll put this area next to where we're going to go. Finally, we will have a complete Slovenia in an amendment, which means that a system law must be drawn up as soon as possible, but not, I don't know, ten intervention laws. It reminds me of this debate and solving these problems, you know what? To remedy the consequences of natural disasters in this country. Until we had a system law, we adopted intervention laws for every frost, for every major storm, for every flood in this House, before we assessed the damage at all. Do you know how we dealt with the stories and the intervention laws? When the wine lobby in this House was strong, when the cold occurred, we had an intervention law on our necks before we knew what the damage was on the vine, what the harvest would be like and so on. Then, in the fall, we read that the record year was both by quantity and by quality. Once we have adopted a system law, when we have ensured measures, we have actually achieved that the Government can, on the basis of an assessment of the situation, draw up a recovery programme through individual measures after eliminating the impact on the individual affected area. And I also want it to be through coherent regional development. What I'd like to stress is what you're stressing around the highway is actually something. And most of all we will do for this country when we place the development axes in space, we will provide money for the construction of these development axes, because then we will also provide development opportunities to places that are not located in the fifth or tenth road corridor. I claim that today we are in a developmentally subservient position in a congregation that is not located at the fifth and tenth highway corridor. We do not have the basic development infrastructure to develop. Once again, I expect the Government to prepare this modern law on promoting coherent regional development as soon as possible. However, I will not support the amendments because such a debate and such a decision does not lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. Would you like a minister? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! Obviously, we all agree that we must somehow ensure a more equitable regional development of Slovenia, but the approaches proposed are different. We also agree that the Government will approach the problem by preparing, as soon as possible, a new law or amendment to the law on harmonious and regional development, which will contain solutions and also include an expanded set of instruments that will help further support the less developed areas. However, I would like to point out that in this case we must not mix the causes and consequences. The current law obviously did not offer the possibility of allowing certain areas, in certain different circumstances, to remain behind some other territory of Slovenia. In this context, the Government has indeed supported the law on development support to Pomurje, but as an exception. Certainly not as a rule that will multiply across Slovenia as soon as there is a problem. Even as an exception or as an example from which we can learn and what we can draw into a system law. We certainly do not want to wait for one area, an area, a region to become so far behind in development that we have to intervene. The government wants to make a system law so that this will not happen, that differences in Slovenia will be equalized, but that it does not interfere with intervention where there is a bad law or failure to act, and we need intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The word is Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. From the discussion, my colleague Puksic had in some way been 'amended', because I did not actually table an amendment to which the central Slovenian mountains would be defined. It is true that I am surprised that he did not submit him as a long-standing Member of the National Assembly, but I am confident that even if he had tabled him, he would not have supported this amendment mainly from a simple point of view. I firmly believe that the law on harmonious and regional development must be so written that it does not expose a particular area, and the Government and the other institutions will help an area if this area comes into a particular crisis, as it did in Pomura.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. If I mention in the introduction the law on development support to Pomurje, which is in force, it seems to me, not even 8, 20 days, and I hear strange proposals in this room about the abolition of the law, which has not even begun to do well, which is still in preparation, which shows the serious confusion of the government's policy. If you call it policy consistency, if you call it a systematic approach to solving such problems, then you can really wonder what state of accountability the Government is in. If it comes to anyone to break a law that we haven't even "imposed" it's a painful idea. But I fully support here the purpose of the government or ministry, which does not support the multiplication of intervention laws. The intervention law for development support to Pomurje was created under very specific, specific conditions or circumstances. You know that. Last year the entire economy of one region collapsed, not to speak the municipality of Murska Sobota. Last year, the region recorded record unemployment. Unemployment in numbers not even after independence. Not to mention extremely negative demographic trends, the level of education, the state of pensioners, rural rural pensioners in Prekmurje. Please, Mrs. Pecan, take these inputs into account. I have no conscience at all, and no one here needs a conscience to accept this intervention law, because it was really an exception to the rule. And I agree that we do not need to make any more exceptions, although my fellow Members, I fully understand you, I give you all the support and even suggest that the Government make an effort to adopt this law for coherent regional development, not the 9 months that someone has proposed, this can be much faster. I do not know how much input data you need to prepare a bill if we could prepare for Pomurje within three, four months, although it was prepared in secret in some way that we were not even all Members aware of it, which is also strange, because the law could also be better that you know that the law is not exactly perfect, this will now show the results of implementation. But as I said in the introductions, we've barely "faithed" him, there are ideas already coming about ending, incorporating him into a new system law. I don't know, this law has to be enforced by 2015, at least that's how it's planned if you really want to get this region in the northeastern part of Slovenia out of this state of backwardness. So much for thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u210	Today, none of those who have supported the Main City Act are discussing it. I note, however, that there is no systemic approach in this area, we have a development budget with obviously very large gaps. It is clear that for certain areas specific measures should be taken for certain areas, special laws should be adopted if we are to maintain them [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In fact, life, people and cultural landscape. [[...]] I am counting on your support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? You still have a chance to discuss it. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u212	Sometimes you give it an advantage, not this time, but that it won't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u213	I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you. We know how the rules of procedure work. So that it does not happen as in the establishment of the congregations, that they must be true proponents, then goes through. As for the proposal or mention of the negligence of my name, I did not suggest that we did not propose to the Slovenian People's Party the Slovenian Mountains in the Development Support Act, as proposed by the law on development support for White Krajina, Kočevje, Kostel and Osilnica. That's it. It is true, and here I agree with Mrs Pecan when she mentioned earlier that the system in this country with such individual laws goes in the direction of decomposition and decomposition. As I said, it was in the Liberal Democracy that, in the previous term, they were very much promising how they would support us if we prepared the provincial legislation and they did not do so. Even if I now proposed a law on development support for the Slovenian Mountains, I fear that the Liberal Democrats would be the ones who would oppose it again, although in silence you know that the Slovenian Mountains are still in need of incentives for regional development, as unemployment in our area is one of the largest in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss it from those parliamentary groups that still have time? [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendment and the amendment. We will decide on the amendment and the correction in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 34th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 34. Point of the agenda - Defence proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality and the determination of its area does not fulfil the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The text should be given to the President of the Committee on Local Self-Government, which I do not see in the Chamber. Will the president be here? You certainly got the material and the proposal of the conclusion on the bench. The Committee will not present this. Would you like a word from the government? The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u216	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! The content of the additional opinion of the Government on the proposal for the establishment of the new municipality of Loče, which is an integral part of the municipality of Slovenske Konjice, relates to the compatibility of the proposal with the provisions of the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government, which lays down the procedure for the establishment of a new municipality and also lays down the conditions to be met for the establishment of a new municipality. We have reconsidered the proposal in terms of the capacity to meet the needs and interests of the population and to fulfil other tasks in accordance with the law. The government notes that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Loče formally fulfils the conditions for the establishment of a municipality under Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, but departs from the criterion on the number of people in the municipality, since the first paragraph of Article 13a provides that the municipality has at least 5,000 inhabitants. The Government notes that there is no reason for the municipality of Loče to establish itself as an exception under Article 13a(3) of the Law on Local Self-Government. In the additional opinion, the Government stresses in particular the self-government position of the municipality as regards its territorial integrity, as set out in Article 5 of the European Charter on Local Self-Government and also the principles for the formation of a municipality under Article 139(1) of the Constitution, which deals with the common interests of the population in the area where the municipality can be established. The Municipal Council of the Municipality of Slovenske Konjice opposes the establishment of a new municipality in its area. In other cases dealt with by the National Assembly in this mandate, this was not the case. In accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Slovenske Konjice gave an opinion in which it opposed the secession of the municipality and the establishment of the new municipality of Loče. The Councils of the four local communities adopted substantively the same or similar decisions in the area proposed for the establishment of a new congregation. In view of the opposition to the exclusion of part of the area from the municipal council, which is the highest decision-making body in the municipality, and given the opposition of four representative loved bodies from the area where the new municipality is to be established, the Government considers that the State Assembly should complete the procedure for the establishment of the new municipality of Loče. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister and a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the conclusion that the proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Loče does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. Let us recall that in 1990 there were 60 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, and in 1995 there were 210 in 2002 reform 147. The Law on Local Self-Government lays down the conditions for the establishment of a municipality which the proposed area of the new municipality must meet fully. One of the basic conditions is the number of inhabitants, that is, 5,000, which does not meet more than half of the established municipalities. In view of the differences in the size of the congregations, there are also major qualitative differences between them. We can therefore rightly ask ourselves here whether all citizens in such different municipalities have equal access to all public services or the exercise of rights. One of the biggest problems is the problem of funding municipalities. The congregation’s incomes so far have been increasing, and this year it is the first time they have fallen. An even larger decline due to lower income accounting can be expected in 2011. Revenues are falling enormously and social transfers are increasing, for which it is the responsibility of the municipality to provide funds for its citizens. Funds should be provided for the implementation by law of certain tasks of the municipalities, and less and less resources for development tasks and investments, in particular investment maintenance for kindergartens, schools and so on. The DeSUS Group estimates that the further fragmentation of municipalities should be halted and that the small ones already in existence should be encouraged to unite. Therefore, in accordance with the DeSUS programme, which opposes the fragmentation of municipalities into smaller ones, we will support the conclusion that Loče do not meet the conditions for the formation of a new municipality and should continue to remain an integral part of the municipality of Slovenske Konjice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I see that no one is present, Mr Barovic is not in the Chamber. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we find that the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Loče and the establishment of its territory do not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality, although we will not generally support it, but we have shared opinions in the parliamentary club, which is why we are also democrats so that everyone can decide on their own conscience. It is true that the municipality of Loče does not meet the conditions, but it is also true that we have several areas in Slovenia which have a smaller population than the municipality of Loče. What led us in the House of Representatives to support this decision. In particular, due to the simple view that the explanation given by the Committee on Local Self-Government and also by the Minister clearly does not support the separation of the municipality of Slovenske Konjice or the municipal council, if I may say so, not all the three local communities originating in the area. It is true that in the Liberal Democracy we firmly believe that by the establishment of municipalities in Slovenia we have come to, some kind of decentralisation, but above all to individual development and in these municipalities we have provided in non-urban areas, if I may say so, or in the countryside, some step with the development of larger centres. As I said in the introduction, in particular from the point of view that the municipal council of Slovenian Konjice and the affected local communities in this area do not support the division proposed, we will vote in our conscience in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mirko Brulc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u222	Dear Mr. Minister, President of the National Assembly, the esteemed choir! We will vote against the invitation to a referendum to set up a new municipality of Loče. Let me reiterate that we are betting on a strong local self-government that allows for the highest level of direct participation in decision-making processes and is an important segment of social development. Does the fragmentation of municipalities allow for strong local self-government and decentralisation? In our opinion, no. The reform of local self-government in Slovenia has gone too far from territorial and functional shouting. From one extreme to the next: from the largest to the smallest. With the State powers overloaded, to the heavily tempted congregations. Over-centralisation took place at those levels formerly performed by the congregations. The principle of subsidiarity, which ensures that public affairs are carried out at those levels at which they can be managed more effectively, more in accordance with specific circumstances, more efficiently and more cost-effectively and as close as possible to people, is not respected. This is one of the reasons for the lack of effective functioning of the entire state regime. The local self-government is a constitutional category in Slovenia, but Slovenia remains the most centralised country in the European Union despite the formation of municipalities. The establishment of the Municipality of Loče is also intended to help strengthen local self-government in Slovenia. The proposed new municipality would have poor 4,300 inhabitants, thus not meeting the requirements of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. This should also take into account the decision of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Slovenske Konjice, from which the proposed municipality would in fact secede against secession. The Council also adopted substantively the same conclusions in the world of regions, the world of local communities in the area proposed for the new municipality. In view of the fact that four local communities have spoken against the establishment of the municipality, as well as the municipal council of Slovenian Konjice, which also voted against it, it is sufficient for us, apart from the principle reasons against the fragmentation of the municipalities, to support the decision that the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the municipalities of Loče and the decision of its territory does not meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u223	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Let me go back to history. So far, virtually every mandate has begun and concluded the debate on new local organisation, new municipalities, and more or less successful. But I don't remember ever having the National Assembly decide arbitrarily. This means that according to the law that provides that one would be subject to different criteria than the other. In the past, it has also happened that the ruling coalition has the right to decide how local self-government will develop to change the law, and this has happened in the past. There was a deal in the coalition, the criteria are that. And those who meet the criteria may continue the procedure. Then the people and the people in a certain area in the referendum decide whether or not they want to choose a new congregation. We also had referendums that were negative. The inhabitants did not choose a new congregation, but they all had the same opportunities and were all treated equally before the law. In this case, it wasn't like that. The ruling coalition has not changed the law, it is the law in force. And then there was the decision. And the green light was given to an area that has a good 2,600 inhabitants. Okay. If the coalition has so decided, so is fine, but other areas should also be treated evenly. And so it happened, let's say in a specific case, which we are dealing with today, that under all the other institutional conditions, the proposal for an area with 4,000 and a few other residents did not get a green light, and the one for 2,600. And now I ask you, dear colleagues, who voted in favour of that case, but not how is it possible that an area with 4,000 and a few inhabitants is not enough to meet the conditions of 5,000 inhabitants. At the same time, you have given a green light for a proposal that has institutional conditions, but 2,600 inhabitants, and enough conditions for 5,000 inhabitants. That's the only question and they asked me in the field. And I'm going to have to tell them how it's possible in the National Assembly to do something like this. That's all this is about. No one in this area demands that there be a congregation there. However, they require that they be treated in the same way as all other cases. That's all this is about equality before the law. That the decision was arbitrary, the Administrative Court also found, and that is why we are meeting again today with this proposal. It's just about the same treatment before the same law. If it were only possible for the municipality to make an arbitrary decision, there might be a number of others who would have heard it. But it's something else. Tomorrow it can happen that someone will say, "because it is not our proposal, this area will not get the water supply, this second proposal, which is our proposal, will get it." It can happen if we arbitrarily decide to say that this proposal for the renovation of primary school will not get money because it is not ours, and the others who are ours will get it, and that is what this is about, equality before the law. Once again, I would like to point out that no one in this area demands a new congregation. I was simply authorized to define the matter in this case because I am from this area. Although I will not be in the new congregation if it is formed, they want the same treatment before marriage. That's all. Nothing else. And now let me say the following. The initiative for the new municipality was given a new impetus when a proposal with half the population went through, rather than this area of Loč. Then the initiative got started again somehow, it got wings and the proposal is here again. Of course, he had been talking to the Administrative Court before, and the Administrative Court had found arbitration. You have to be aware of that. Finally, I would explain what was said today by the Minister and by colleagues who were before me. It's not a controversy, it's just a supplement that four local communities were against. The presidents of the local community specifically called me and explained to me how it was. In fact, they wrote that they were not the best for the division of the congregation, but that they wanted the people to decide for themselves at the referendum whether they wanted a new congregation or not. And this has been attributed to the conclusion that they want, the conclusions of local communities, that they want the result to be determined individually in each local community. This means that there can be no voting. It can't be any more democratic. Finally, I ask again how can I explain to people that it is possible in the National Assembly that a proposal of 2,600 inhabitants is sufficient to meet the conditions of 5,000 inhabitants and that a proposal with a good 4,000 inhabitants is not sufficient to meet the condition of 5,000 inhabitants. If I get that answer, then the discussion can be closed. The people who empowered me expect to be treated the same way as the other areas, whether it comes from the congregation or not. It is important that we are all the same before the law, and this is what this proposal is about today. It was probably different before, but today it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. [[No, no, ……]] There remains Franz Pukšič, who was originally predicted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u226	Nice greeting, Mr. President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we wonder what the farce of the government is. For the first time we hear the Government's mathematical rhetoric - well, since it's not the first time, we hear again, so I'll say, the Government's mathematical rhetoric, where there is 2,600 more than 4,200. But what we want is what we're used to. Unfortunately, in this government and this coalition, things are turned upside down, so instead of jobs and economic development, they are unemployed. Allowing yourself to do this is incomprehensible. In this case, we are not talking at all about the establishment of a congregation, but we are talking about the call for a referendum in which people in a particular area would decide whether or not to want a congregation. That's all. Our legislation says what the procedure is. They have fulfilled all these conditions, and not only have they fulfilled all these conditions, but you have already prevented them. Then they went to the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court said the National Assembly acted arbitrarily. The Administrative Court has also said that the National Assembly has acted arbitrarily on several occasions to warn us of this. And when this was pointed out to us, normally in the National Assembly, the decision of the Administrative Court was taken into account and what the Administrative Court demanded happened, i.e. the call for a referendum. This time, however, there goes the executive branch of power with a proposal made by the minister, that is, what the Government thinks goes through the decision of the Administrative Court. And that, colleagues and colleagues, is not good for the country. It's not good! And that's the worst and worst thing you do. You know, Minister, I have even been asked by some fellow mayors from the countryside whether that 5th call might not have been because of this - in this case you are not really guilty, but the Government - that it was not because some projects in the countryside have stopped and will stop because there will be no continuation of work because a year is late in the process, perhaps because most of these municipalities are run by mayors of the right parties. And if you think about what you're doing in this case to even get through the ruling of the Administrative Court, you might say that's true. And when the rule of law doesn't work, then you have to be afraid. In some other systems they then take into account the decision-making of individual gangs and gangs operating in some completely different rules. And I fear that we are now approaching this country, that the government will assume the responsibility of such a mafia way of functioning. You can't function like that and go through a motion through a decision of the Administrative Court. I'm the mafia's way of working. And this coalition has enjoyed it. However, if the government remained on what should be left as a government meeting the conditions and the point, it would be agreed with the coalition, because it is yours to not support it, it would be a political decision and it would be the end. So I wouldn't have called for a referendum. Also the political decision of the left-wing government, the left-wing government, was to set up a municipality in this country without a referendum signed so that people would decide at the referendum. They didn't have that chance, so you set up LDS, SD, you were in the coalition. You are working outside the legal framework and we remind you in the Slovenian People's Party that this should not be happening and, of course, this is no longer the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u227	Havela beautiful. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft decision as a whole. The word is Renata Burnskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Much has already been said about this proposal. I have also taken into account, in the view of the Committee, in assessing the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of the municipality of Loče, the following statements in the additional opinion of the Government, that the municipal council of the municipality of Slovenske Konjice does not support the exclusion of part of the municipality in the new municipality, that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Loče formally fulfils the conditions for the establishment of the municipality under Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, but departs from the criterion on the number of inhabitants in the municipality, that there is no reason for the applicant to establish the municipality as an exception that the municipality must be able to meet the common needs and interests of the community and that, in establishing the municipality, it is necessary to take into account all the criteria and conditions governing its permanent ability to ensure the fulfilment of the needs and interests of the local community and to carry out the statutory tasks of the municipality and that it is necessary to take into account the establishment of the self-government of the municipality of its territory. Of course, the committee, as a motion for a decision to the National Assembly, was based on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 1988 and its position that the legislator, in setting up a network of municipalities, may, taking into account all the statutory criteria and their mutual link in accordance with its own judgment, take into account the principle of administrative rationality, the conditions that the area must meet in order to be considered to be capable of meeting the common needs and interests of the population and the tasks under the law. Therefore, I also agree with the Committee's proposal and will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you very much. It's so nice to hear speeches that are read and sound like poems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u231	Is that a more private note?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u232	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u234	Outside, of course. Absolutely, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u235	It goes from the time of your group, though.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u236	Okay. That's why you're interrupting me, thank you. Look, people need to be told very easily. That's what I think depends the most. We also have that kind of experience. What we are doing this year in the National Assembly for the benefit of [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Congregations? [[...]] A number of congregations, a number of local communities, came along to become congregations. It's our jurisdiction to sign a referendum or not. Despite the legal provisions of the ruling coalition, which are 5,000 inhabitants, in exceptional cases 2000, and so on, all these requests were divided into two buyers. And then what happened? Of course, in cluster number 1 there were those congregations that liked this coalition, whether they met the legal requirements or not. That's irrelevant. And in these areas, we have called for a referendum. On merchant number 2, we had other congregations, those who fulfill, and those who fail to do so in whatever way we look, but this we said: no. When we said no, in some cases the Administrative Court said, "No, gentlemen in the National Assembly, you have to decide again, you have overlooked the legal provisions." And, of course, that ruling coalition, which is extremely respectful of the Constitution, which is extremely respectful of independent judicial decisions or what we call it, is an independent judicial decision, the ruling coalition and those individuals who asked me on May 5th to step down as a Member, because I criticised the Constitutional Court's decision because it is supposed to be untouchable, the same policy today says to the Municipality of Loče where we are, this is the point of the agenda which has all the conditions, but it is said that it does not have 5,000 inhabitants, but it has 4,200 or 4,300, although you all know that the law says that in exceptional cases it can also have 2,000. No, no, no. This time we're going to say no to the separation, we're going to say no to the judicial branch of power, in fact no, we're going to say, in fact, wrongly speaking, you're going to say no to the citizens, you're going to say no to the judicial branch of power that you're so respecting, and that's the face of the ruling coalition. I'm just setting you up with a mirror. Look how beautiful you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. There's not much left to add. But the thing is, people understand it. And people understand if the ruling coalition, which has the right to decide on the criteria to be met by the areas that they want to establish as a single congregation, if the ruling coalition says and the policy says and the legislator says that there will be no new congregations. He won't. Yes, this right is given, no matter how many people you have, what conditions you meet, there will be no new congregations. Everyone understands that and it's legal, legitimate and understandable. But people don't understand that, in fact, the ruling policy says, there will be no new congregations, but we will make an exception. And then, in the meantime, there's a proposal that's significantly worse than another proposal. And this poorer one gets the green light to continue the procedure for the new congregation, even the referendum has already been held, it is specifically the Mirne proposal, but we do not object to the formation of this area into a single congregation, but it is not understandable that the second proposal, I am specifically talking about Loča, which has twice as many inhabitants as all other institutions, cannot go through. But people simply do not understand this, and it is also most painful if not all of them are subject to the same criteria. If it's a meter for one and the same thing for one shorter and the other longer. And that's all this is about. And no one in this area demands that they have a congregation. Nobody. They demand and also expect us to have the same meters for the same thing and to be equal before the law. And that's all this is about, and that's what I'm trying to say. That's what they authorized me to do. I was specifically called. And if they're in pain, they're in pain because they're not the same before marriage. That's all this is about and nothing else! It's not about blackmail and any unrealistic expectations. People have already been convinced that Slovenia will not receive new municipalities in this mandate, but when the process started and some proposals with poor conditions were put through and referendums have already been carried out and someone else cannot get it, although it has better conditions. That's all this is about. And I expect you to understand that for the rest of you and that you will act in such a way that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be treated with the same criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I note that there are no amendments to the proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 13th session of the National Assembly, and we will continue to vote at 5 p.m. and 15 minutes. No, you do. [[...]] Okay, we'll say 5:00 and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u240	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda - re-decision on the Law on Amendments to the Secret Data Act. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all Members and Members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. [[The ad in the hall.]] I'm calling off the vote. The message was too late, the vote was closed. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 22. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda - re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. This vote shall also be deemed to require the majority of Members and Members of the National Assembly to vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of that Act, i.e. 46 or more. We are moving on to a decision on that law. We're voting. The 73 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda - re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Motor Vehicles. This vote is also considered to be a re-adopted law if it is voted on by 46 or more Members of the National Assembly. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 28th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling. The law will be adopted in the re-decision if it is voted for by the majority of all Members of the National Assembly, that is 46 or more. We are moving on to a decision on that law. Mr. Yuri, can I help you? Excuse me? Explanation of voice. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on their personal behalf? Mr Juri will explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Zares Group, as we have already said in the presentation, we will support this law. However, provided that a new law is prepared as soon as possible to amend Article 4, which is problematic for us. It is problematic because it is inappropriate and allows for misuse of the Internet when misinterpreted. We expect the government to make changes immediately, and with this reservation we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on that law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Capital Investment Management of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We will vote against this decision because the law is not suitable for further consideration. He can't be fixed with the amendments. It's conceptually wrong. Those objectives pursued by this law by setting up an agency with very broad powers and no controls and responsibilities can be observed by entrusting the Director of Public Property Management, within the Ministry of Finance, with certain but only management tasks, not as laid down in this law, with which this agency will be given exclusive powers of tenure with several billion national assets. There are several reasons why we will vote "against". One of the most important reasons is that pensioners receive the share they received from the transfer of the share of the insurance company Triglav in 2008. A referendum was held on this in 2007. This Act deletes Article 2 of this Act, which deals with the transfer of annual net income from the management of assets referred to in this paragraph to the account of the PPIZ, of pensionable cash. I said earlier in the debate that if the Janša government had proposed such a law as we have today on the bench, today would have protests by pensioners, especially Mrs Mateja Kožuh Novak, and DeSUS would have threatened to withdraw from the coalition. We haven't been able to track any of this today. We have listened to some of the lactating opinions that I must say are of great concern. This law constitutes a radical intervention in the already acquired rights of pensioners and undermines the stability of the pension fund. What should be achieved by this law is that the effects of the sale of state property would be devoted to ensuring the long-term stability of the pension fund and that this property, once sold, would generate the gap that we will be witnessing to him in the short term or in the coming years. That's not all. This law abolishes Darsa's control council. This law repeals the governing bodies of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, the Assembly and the Management Board. With this law, the Council of the Agency, which will be composed of three people proposed by Mr Pahor and appointed by his Government, will manage the multibillion-dollar assets, not only manage them, but will also sell them, as set out in this Sales Programme. The law does not in any way improve what the OECD guidelines oblige us to do. It would therefore be necessary for this law to be rejected and for the Government to prepare a new law with new starting points without such radical and inadequate solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri. Mr. Znidarsich. Then allow me to make an announcement. Here you go. Who wants to discuss or explain their voice? Mr. Franz Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u245	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I can't support this marriage for two reasons. First of all, because the solution is directly contrary to the agreement within the coalition agreement, where it states that the capital fund of the first pension pillar will be managed by the ZPIZ in the future. However, the second reason is that no one in the coalition wanted to hear a request or proposal to redefine a coalition agreement, whereby a new agreement could also be reached on this issue, is that we did not. And as long as it says it like that, I would've told that story that we started together. That's why I'm going to stick to the agreement and the law that runs counter to it, and I'm not going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u247	The bill introduces two clear principles. And these are transparency and responsibility. For the first time in the history of our country, we will finally know how our property is managed, under what conditions our assets are managed and who is responsible for managing our assets. Firstly, and this is good, not only because we want to become a member of the OECD, but because we want to manage our assets well and efficiently. Such a law will no longer allow office deals to take place by selling Mercator or other major companies. The tycoons will become harder to produce and will be able to manage our assets more effectively. It will no longer be possible to sign contracts with or similar to millions of dollars on average. That is why this marriage is a big and good step forward. And personally, like other comrades and comrades, the Social Democrats, we are happy and confident to support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The vote will be explained by Mr Matevž Frangež. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. We do not need this law just because Slovenia joins the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. We need this law because, as representatives of the people, we are also their representatives in view of the fact that citizens and citizens are property owners and that the state is a fiduciary who must take care of the good management of this property. We need this law in order to prevent past mixing with state-owned companies and to finally establish a new corporate culture in this country, where it will be clearly defined what the role of the owner is, that is, when this National Assembly raises a governance strategy with an important question of what we want with state ownership in state-owned enterprises, because state-owned enterprises are a major development factor in our society in order to leave this issue to the political interests or interests of influential groups. Last but not least, we need this law to open up a process of sound and selective judgment on what is what must remain in the country's strategic ownership and what is what we can manage from portfolio investment in the interest of getting for the state budget. I will be very happy to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Blackach, in your personal name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u251	I regret to say, once again, that some apparently have not read the law in sufficient detail or at all. I'm not going to support this law myself. This law repeals a whole series of provisions of other laws. Among other things, Article 246 of the Pension Act, which provides for the capital fund of the Pension Act, provides that it is a legal person established to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance. This article is hereby repealed. I have already said that the referendum will of those who voted in 2007 to transfer 35% of the share of the Triglav Insurance Company to the pension register is being eliminated. By repealing Article 2 of this Law, this is also repealed. And these funds are taken directly from pensioners because they will flow directly into the state budget. And if two people at the agency decide on the basis of a strategy to sell it, it will be sold. That's what this law requires. And, of course, such a law cannot be neither supported nor corrected. This law also takes us far from those guidelines set by the OECD for the management of state assets. That is why it has to be rejected and a new - a law that will actually allow for transparent management and which will be in one account - because of me it can be an item at the Ministry of Finance where we have a Directorate for Public Property Management. If the problem is that these investments in several sectors should be combined there, but not with the right to do so, as this law gives to two persons in the Agency's world, because two out of three will make decisions. That is why this law must be rejected and, of course, I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you. I don't see a desire to explain my voice anymore. We vote on the proposal for a decision. The Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 44, for 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and we are thus concluding this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 35th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the level of funds belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2010. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 66, for 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 37th item of the agenda - with the consideration of the Proposal for a Opinion of the Republic of Slovenia until the draft amendments to the Protocol amending the Protocol (No. 36) on the transitional arrangements (to the Treaty on European Union) for the composition of the European Parliament. Since the amendments to the proposal have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a position. We're voting. 71 Members and Members present, for 70, against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a position has been adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the preparation of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development. The proposal for a decision has been tabled as an amendment and we are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment. Mr Jakob Preseknik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u253	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In explanation, we have also tabled an amendment earlier, where we are proposing, in addition to the proposal for a new law on the promotion of real regional development, to add a law on development support to the White landscape, including the municipalities of Kočevje, Kostel and Osilnica. We believe that, despite the fact that it will be prepared or that the National Assembly will eventually adopt a law on the promotion of coherent regional development, that indicators in this area, in this southernmost part of Slovenia in the White landscape and beyond, are such that it is necessary to draw up a law similar to that of the porous region, for the porous region, at this stage to improve the conditions of management and all that is involved in this part of Slovenia. Today, too, we have changed, even in the light of the debate, to the debate that was that the 9-month deadline for the drafting of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development is too long. I think that there was a similar debate on the Committee on Local Self-Government, where most of the panellists spoke about the fact that this 9-month deadline is too long, so we propose that this deadline be shortened. Even in today's debate, it has been heard from many coalition Members and Members that this deadline is too long and that this must be done earlier. Therefore, this revised amendment proposes a deadline of 6 months for both, namely for the law on the promotion of coherent development and for the drafting of the law on development support to the White Krajina, extended to the municipalities of Kočevje, Kostel and Osilnica. I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we also support this amendment when voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. President, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural proposal, before the vote on the amendment and on the agenda item, on the proposal for a decision, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u256	Your vacation will be granted because you have the right to it. It has also set time within the framework of the business. And I would warn and at the same time ask the National Assembly. The amendment proposal amends the decision in its entirety. Whether you agree to vote only on the proposal to amend the decision and if the amendment or amendment to the decision is adopted, then we do not vote once again on the basic text because it has been completely amended. However, if the amendment is not adopted, we must also vote on the basic text. If there's any advice, we'll know that too. Do we agree? Thank you. The Slovenian People's Party delegation asked for half an hour's rest. We'll pick it up at 6:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u257	We continue to take a decision on the proposal for a decision to prepare a law on the promotion of coherent regional development after the break tabled or requested by the Slovenian People's Party's Group in the course of the debate on the amendment. Would you like a word, Mr. President? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It must have taken 30 minutes to, not just us, I am sure that you have also reviewed your opinion on the amendment or the amended amendment in other parliamentary groups. That I will not repeat my debate from before, we remain convinced in the Group of Members that, in addition to the need to adopt a new law to promote coherent regional development, it is necessary to prepare it, and the debate at today's meeting on this point has shown that it is possible to prepare it earlier than in nine months, and we have said six months. A similar debate has already taken place on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. And the debate on this committee has also shown that it is necessary. Even though we are adopting or adopting a law to promote coherent regional development, as we did a good month ago for the Pomurje area, it is necessary to do so by means of a special law also for the area of the White Land, with a slightly extended area of the Kočevje, Kostel and Osilnica. Therefore, I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues once again to support this revised amendment, so that we can actually allow for the future faster development of the whole of Slovenia, with particular emphasis on the area where current indicators indicate that something needs to be done shortly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We're voting. There are 70 in attendance, 27 in favour, 40 in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision as proposed. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 34th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision finding that the proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Loče and for the establishment of its territory does not meet the conditions for the meeting of the municipality. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. In doing so, I inform you that if the proposed decision, as proposed by my mother's working body, is not adopted, I will not interrupt this item on the agenda in order for the parent committee to draw up a motion for a decision on the invitation to refer. We move to a vote on the proposal that the proposal to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Loče and for the establishment of its territory do not meet the conditions for the meeting of the municipality. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 13th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
