ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be held by the following Members: Bogdan Barovič, Matevž Frangež, Miran Potrč, Jože Tanko from 16:00 on and Milan Gumzar. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - This is on the defensive proposal of a candidate for the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food. On 29 April 2010, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, proposed that he appoint mag as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Diana jeedan. I give the floor to the President of the Government to further explain the proposal. Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Good afternoon. Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. The High Council please don't blame me if I'm a little suffocating because I came from a meeting with students where we were trying to find some solution to their problems. Today, we will work together to find a solution to my problems, this is for the problems of the Slovenian government that concern the job. Today, one of the unemployed will be reduced if you decide to do so. Not to forget later, this high choir please to the mag. He appoints the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. He is a Master of Veterinary, his experience is extremely extensive and diverse, will be precious. What finally convinced me in our discussion of possible cooperation is that colleagues and colleagues in the government and the coalition, that it is a person who, in addition to expertise in this field, also has management, that he has a lot of experience in managing business processes i and that on such a demanding and extensive field as agriculture, we need someone who will have both of them, who will be a respected expert, who will be mag. I'm sure he's a Jew, and he'll be an experienced businessman, like a mag. He's thirsty, too. I will take this stage to take the time to do more important things, to avoid what you already know about Dejan Židan, and these are his important qualities and references to do this work, and I would like to focus on one issue that was important when it came to the last part of the former Minister's term of office, because he was interpeeled and then resigned for his decision on another issue. But the interpretation involved a decision that was and is still controversial. Legally disputed in the profession and also disputed in public. It is a matter of deciding whether the Ministry of Agriculture should have killed dangerous animals after having had reasonable evidence to do so, or whether it was necessary to wait for the decision of the Administrative Court and respect this case. I promised, and I promise that I will, not least of all, write to me by one of the opposition parliamentary groups, relieve the Minister of this responsibility to explain and explain, I think it was the SLS Group to explain and explain his position on this issue. This position, of course, he has as an expert, is a veterinarian and is ready, of course, to answer this question as well. But because I was the one who insisted that we should come to the end of the question, what, when, how did it go wrong in the case of the Baricevic tragedy, what needs to be changed, if anything needs to be changed, I have to give a brief conclusion today, at least I think, to this question. This conclusion is that at the time the competent authorities would have to execute the dogs when they had reasonable evidence that they were dangerous dogs. When I spoke to the minister, the future minister, if so decided by this high assembly, he also agreed as an expert and a veterinarian. But the fact is, and I would like to draw your attention to this, and in the interests and support of the former Minister, you need to know that when decisions were made on the treatment of dangerous dogs in 2008 and 2009, the situation was a conflict of two laws, one that came into force and the other that was still in force, and became obsessive. For people, for officials who have decided what is right and what is wrong, this situation has not been transparent and transparent, as it seems to anyone today. Today, the law that has been passed deals definitively with this issue. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Hello, Comrade Grimes? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u4	I love listening to you. I don't have a problem with someone taking advantage of someone else's discussion for a moment. In the end, we're in a democratic house, but what you're saying is not true. The problem that you will be able to see from the file that will be available to you - those who have already wanted to see it, I have it before me, have already seen it - is that the legal profession is not uniform, that they are not unified institutes, that they are not uniform competent authorities, that they have a different opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government and that they have different positions themselves legal experts individually. And that's the problem. But, in the end, and now I'm at the heart of the matter, is that, for the first time, I didn't want another so-called affair to end, even though it wasn't for me, it was a tragedy that caused the owner's will to love his dogs was their sacrifice. To reach them, he used all the remedies that the competent ministry or authorities considered to be justified. Since I wanted to find out, as Prime Minister of the Government, what needs to be done so that this tragedy will not happen again, we have come to the right conclusion what needs to be done then and we know what needs to be done today. So I think it's right that this high council knows that the government has kept the promise it made, and this matter has been clarified to this extent. This will not be the criminal responsibility of those who have done wrong, it will be the disciplinary responsibility set by the new minister. The Prime Minister doesn't have that authority. I don't think there's anything more to say about this right now than that we've come to a conclusion of what was right and what was wrong at the time, and it's in the face of different legal interpretations, where it was necessary to rely on what was, in the end, partly also a condition of value, and that is that the interest of man is in the interest of animals. Secondly, that this fact will trigger some responsibility that will not be criminal responsibility. No one has the intention of harming or wronging someone, acting as it is. He was in good faith. According to my data, and according to my research, no one has done the same because he would be acting biasedly for any special benefit as being responsible for this decision. Well, he can bear some disciplinary responsibility if and for which the future minister will decide. I see there are some noises in the hall during this discussion. They could not have been, because perhaps some other president of the government would not have dealt with it and would have gone through with it. Well, I'm not from this test, and I wanted to get to the end of this discussion. And we have reached the end of this discussion. We're getting an epilogue on this. We have witnessed a tragedy that required that we take all the strength to find out what is right and what is wrong, that the right ones, who have taken decisions in the conflict of legal positions, will bear some appropriate responsibility, not criminally, but disciplinaryly, and that such a tragedy, as far as human might may be, will no longer be repeated. The new Minister of Agriculture, however, has a number of other important tasks ahead of him, and I conclude with this. The agricultural situation is not good, and we must not close our eyes before doing so. In particular, small farmers are experiencing this crisis today with a delay, more than workers may have initially. That's what you need to be sensitive about. We need to look at what needs to be done with the countryside. Half of our population lives in the countryside. We want them to stay there, stay there, and have about the same quality of life as those of their peers who decided to stay in town. We are the third forest country in Europe. Why do we not have great added value from wood? Why we just cut wood, we worry about it today worse than we did years ago, and we export it to countries where they make and create added value from it. Finally, Slovenia must be more food-consumingly sovereign than it is. She's not here right now, and she could be. This is the task of the new Minister of Agriculture - if you name him, he has the will, willingness, knowledge and experience. I am grateful to the committee responsible for giving him the green light, and I ask you to give him your support and allow the Government to now fully carry out its work, including the Minister of Agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Prime Minister Borut Pahor for the additional explanation and add, Mr President, that you will have 30 minutes to discuss with Members and Members. Procedurally, Mr. Grimes. But a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Respectable. I propose that, exceptionally, in this chapeau, you also allow a representative or representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to explain that a legal situation such as this, when the law is still in force, and that the law of the future already in force, cannot appear. Therefore, the transitional provisions in the law, when one provision is in force, cease to apply the provisions of the law in question. That's the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. I'll reject your procedural proposal. Unfortunately, Mr President of the Government, you will have 30 minutes to present the views of Members and Members as the debate begins. Order in the hall applies to all the same. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. You've received the committee's report. The opinion of the Committee will be presented by the chairman of the Committee, Franc Bogovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues. The Honourable President of the Government. Respectable ministers. I myself have this task and the opportunity to discuss the presentation of a future candidate for the agricultural minister, according to the candidate, of the presentation of the mags. The dejana jedin, which he carried out on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food on 3 May, is said to be this week. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 29. 4. 2010 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u9	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u10	is 29. 4. 2010 submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for candidate for Minister of Mag. Diana jeedan. [[...]] The proposed candidate for minister first presented himself in the opening presentation and gave some information about his professional and professional work so far, talked about schooling - both at the Central Veterinary School, at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and later at the Faculty of Economics in Maribor, where he improved in economic sciences. In his professional career, he first performed field veterinary work, later worked in development and research institutions, was the head of the National Veterinary Institute of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, the Units of Murski Sobota, while working in the field of animal health and reproduction, especially pigs. Since May 2003, as a member of the management of the Rakičan Agricultural Economy and since the beginning of 2007, as the President of the administration of the Panvita Group, the Rakičan Agricultural Economy, has participated in the construction of the Slovenian agricultural and food-processing chain, which includes activities from agriculture, feed production, pig farming and poultry farming to slaughterhouses and food-processing industries and production of green industry. There he gained the experience he wanted to show and would be important in his ministry work, as he himself said. And this first experience is very important, according to him - and I believe that even by the belief of many - that in Slovenia there must be emphasis on the production of safe, healthy and tasty food. That this should also be ensured through a system of traceability and control. Another important experience he has gained is that he is aware that Slovenian agriculture is represented by such small, medium and large farmers and that the role of agriculture is multifunctional in various fields. The third experience is that agricultural policy must be set up and guided in an orderly manner in order to achieve the greatest possible impact. He further presented his vision and work programme and his programme of priorities and areas of concern. He spoke about Eurostat statistics giving agriculture a high place, similar to Slovenia, and about the agreement that European policy should be directed towards aid and public subsidies in agriculture in the future. As regards European agricultural policy, he drew attention to the problem that a new financial perspective has begun to be negotiated in Europe and that it is a recent time for Slovenia to take an active role, including through the adopted strategy in the National Assembly, which the Ministry is already preparing. He presented the basic orientations of his work in eight points below. In terms of drawing on funds, it notes that agriculture is generally okay, as we are well above the European average, where an average of 27% in Slovenia is 35% from the current financial perspective in Europe. He pointed out, however, that the third development axis has been poorly pumped, so to speak, the diversification of agriculture and similar matters. Members and Members of Parliament have put forward a number of questions on which a candidate for a minister has made clear, comprehensive and comprehensive answers, as well as further clarifications on certain matters. Finally, as usual, we voted on the notion that he was a mag. Dejan Židan as a candidate for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food is appropriate. This opinion received the unanimous support of eight members of the Committee, and none of the members of the Committee voted against this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. On behalf of the LDS Club, he has the floor to present the position of the mags. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Welcome to the Commissioner, both the ministers who have come to support the future colleague and the Secretary of State! Unlike the introductory debate, I will start a little differently, because in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are convinced that Slovenian agriculture, forestry and nutrition are not on the dog, so I will talk about other, more important and agricultural topics. Slovenia certainly wants this moment, needs it, and deserves a good minister, and I am sure we have the opportunity to get it today. Proof of maturity and recognition not only of the government's policy, but also of the issue, if the minister receives a voice from the opposite side, from the opposition. Because he was good at the presentation, he knows that he is an expert, that he is a manager, that he knows the processing chain in Slovenia, from production to the final product. Above all, it seems important to me, that it may be its great advantage or weakness, that it is not skilled and that it is not at home on the floor of politics and will, of course, decide whether it will become - and has all the options - one of the better Slovenian ministers in this field. At the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, it seems programmely important to highlight the following issues in particular. The first is, of course, by 2013 we will be deciding on a common policy within the European Union. There will be negotiations and a presentation of the views of smaller countries will be extremely important and we are confident that it will take place on the Brussels floor. Because the case that we have had in our country's responses and actions to the reform of the sugar sector, a case of bad practice, must no longer be repeated in this country. It also seems important to me, on behalf of the Club, that in the framework of the programme of the common agricultural policy for the distribution of Slovenia's funds, the net recipient is there until 2013 and we expect and demand that, as Minister, he will make full use of the resources under this title. It also seems important to me to stress that the President's efforts in the field of agricultural policy to get a minister who loves Slovenian agricultural land respects it, including those who serve bread in the way of their faces and blisters of their hands, and this is important. The agricultural land has to be protected, the mayors and mayors will not be satisfied with all its statements, but Slovenia will certainly stop the trend of building the best agricultural land in years. The municipalities that will want to build must, of course, establish a substitute for agricultural production on other land; in most cases, this will be possible. There is a need to stop the infestation, and here too, the candidate for the minister had the right answers. And, of course, continue with the process of finalising the amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act, and will do everything possible to ensure that the law comes into parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. We also expect its immediate engagement in the preparation of an already planned programme to reduce the growth of agricultural land. There have also been many initiatives and opinions in recent weeks that Slovenia does not have a strategy if we waste time writing a document for months and years, then we will not do much good for the countryside. It is necessary to spit in your hands and hold your sleeves and hold onto your work, because strategies, paper, academic discussions do not solve much. It is also essential to continue to realize the multifunctionality of agriculture and rural areas. For this reason, within the LDS Club, we pay particular attention to organic production, which is an important, fastest growing market niche, which needs better promotion and marketing, which must also be strongly supported by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We also expect the candidate to step up the share of organic crops, food in kindergartens, schools and other public institutions within his powers. Right away, however, it is necessary to say and be aware of the fact that healthy safe food is by no means cheap food. These two things just don't work together. Slovenians and Slovenians will have to get used to it and realize that if we want to eat, we will enjoy the best Slovenian food so that it will always be more expensive than the price imported. We expect the new minister to accelerate the process of protecting agricultural crops or foodstuffs with one of the quality schemes or geographical indication or designation of origin, which increases market interest and achieves additional value. We also expect him to promote environmentally friendly agricultural practices in Slovenia. Our beautiful land, which has been most shaped by agriculture and cultivation over the centuries, certainly deserves this attention, and is therefore cautious in the field of plant protection products. More needs to be done to raise awareness and to educate users of these resources, especially in those areas where the use of gardening is concerned. The candidate comes from the food processing industry and we are therefore confident in the LDS that he will fulfil his commitment to establish stronger links between agricultural producers and the domestic food processing industry. He'll have our support on that. We also welcome the candidate's intention to increase the funding for the targeted development programmes by 50%. We are still convinced that there is a need to increase support for the excellence of this area, in agriculture, and to accelerate the transfer of this knowledge to the agricultural and food processing industries. Here I would add that, as LDS Members, we do not deal with what is more important after basic education than being a veterinarian, it seems to us that he is, above all, an experienced manager. In the presentation, we noticed that the candidate was not a forest expert and related issues, but he had the desire and willingness to learn about it. This is why we pay particular attention to the forestry sector. This is one of our rare natural goods and raw materials, which must be exploited in a multifaceted manner, of course, with appropriate solutions, incentives in the field of economy, construction, construction and the key objective must be to increase added value to raw materials from Slovenian forests. What we mention too often in the first place, however, must be at the last, is the primary use or energy purpose of Slovenian forests. We need to talk about this in the end, in the waste and in the remains. It is also necessary to support the Slovenian paper industry, which was a broom for Slovenian forests. It makes order and cleanness, and it's important. We are confident that it will advocate multifunctionality and, above all, the broad utility and public accessibility of Slovenian forests, which perform a broad function, and that it will establish such mechanisms that the management and exploitation of Slovenian forests will remain in our hands even after 2016, when 20 years of concessions are over. To give adequate attention, for example, to hunting, to keeping hunting in the public interest, not in the private interest, and to give weight and importance to hunting activities of particular importance, which must deal more with environmental protection and animal rearing than with commercial activities. It is also important that he will lead an appropriate policy in the forestry sector, which we estimate is not the best in recent years. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is also responsible for marine fisheries, which has been more or less at the brink of survival since independence. This should be given due weight. Since big stories and big projects are born out of smallness, we also ask him not to forget the preservation of cranberry gray, beekeepers, beekeeping. This was a science and industry that exceeded the importance of honey production, bee crops and pollination, but was an important indicator of the state and reflections in the environment. We are therefore confident that he will support and continue with the efforts that include the threat of a tailor-made bee already included in the relevant European lists, and the project is currently standing. Kranj bee should be classified as endangered species in the European scale. Let me finish. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support the candidate in a single way. We have assessed him as an expert, as a manager, and now we expect him to prove himself on the political floor, which will be difficult and difficult, but he will have the help and support of our parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities will be presented by Dr Laszlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I would like to express my satisfaction that, despite the relatively long-term search for a candidate for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we can only decide on this important function in the National Assembly today. I am pleased that the candidate for minister comes from the Pomur region or Eastern Slovenia, not for some narrow, principled, local-patriotic reasons, but because agriculture and food production have a historically conditioned tradition in the area. Otherwise, the professional quality of the proposed candidate mag. I only know the actual Jew in part, but his vision of the resolution or management of agricultural policy, which he has provided to the public in recent days, including presentation on the working body. In view of his professional career so far, we can conclude that this is a good organiser, which is clearly the most important condition in the performance of the ministerial function. Although it is also heard from some of the pomurian backgrounds that the candidate is not too fond of small and medium-sized farms, which represent a significant proportion of farm areas treated in that area. However, from his statements made in recent days as a candidate for a minister, this could not be seen and I hope that this is true. Undoubtedly, there are encouraging elements of his vision regarding the resolution of the social problems related to agrarian life and the more effective use of European money, so that the other content he presented in the so-called 8 points of his programme is not mentioned in more detail. Personally, I believe that an expert who has a number of successful tasks and has been tested in several sectors directly or periodically linked to the agricultural food activity should be trusted and given the opportunity to manage this important resource. We will therefore support him in the vote with a fellow Member of the Italian National Community. It is clear to all of us that the task of the new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be all too easy, but I will not mention the indirect issues that have been put at the forefront in recent weeks or months, but nevertheless of a secondary nature in terms of agricultural policy. As has already been pointed out many times, unfortunately in recent decades agricultural policy has largely not followed the natural characteristics of the areas that are most suitable for agricultural production in this country because of its natural characteristics. There have been many questionable actions in Slovenia, and some opportunities in the agricultural food sector have been missed. Undoubtedly, to some extent, the fact that a significant part of the territory of the Slovenian State was not mainly an agrarian-oriented region. Unfortunately, this has also led to the shortest withdrawal of regions such as Pomurje, part of Stajerska, Dolenjska, White Krajina and others, where in the past the agricultural sector has been considered an important, wide range of priority economic activity. Otherwise, the situation or the relationship in the area of the presence of the economic sectors, and I am thinking primarily of agriculture, has changed significantly in individual regions in recent decades. Nevertheless, the fact that the agricultural sector is particularly difficult today because of the missed opportunities or inadequate agricultural policy in the past, with little chance of achieving concrete results quickly, is particularly difficult. This must be clear to us when we decide for the new minister. As I have already mentioned directly and this is also pointed out by agricultural experts from Pomurje, today the most pressing issue in this area is the economic situation of farmers or farmers, especially on family farms and small farmers. The latest figures attest to this claim. In 2009, the economy in all sectors analysed deteriorated significantly compared to previous years. By lowering the buying-in prices of wheat, oil grains, maize, potatoes and other cultures, the economic situation of farmers has become unrestrained and huge losses have been caused. In many cases, there are no variable costs of production. For the sake of illustration, in Pomour, according to the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Murska Sobota, in 2009, the farming of 210 farms ceased in 2009. Unfortunately, between 2005 and 2010, they stopped farming on 1250 farms. In a border, ethnically mixed area, where the predominantly Hungarian community lives, the situation is even worse. In analysing the adverse economic social indicators in the Pomurska region, these data have often been neglected, but we must be aware that they are in addition to the direct damage caused, which is also a major structural problem due to these negative trends in agriculture. Without going into concrete analyses today, let me mention that experts are of the opinion that the current economic crisis also has a major impact on the lower buying-in prices of agricultural production, but this is not the only reason. The abolition of milk quotas, annual cycles in pigs, insurance problems and other reasons are also mentioned as negative factors. It is also important to emphasise, although I am convinced that this too is well aware of the fact that the social situation of farmers is currently at the lowest point in the last nineteen years or after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The data is more than alarming, so the new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition will, in my opinion, have a lot more challenges than anyone outside might expect. Nevertheless, I hope that Mr Židan will be their majority in favour of agrarian activities and all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the wider region, so I wish him a successful and, above all, substantive creative ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. With the proposal of the Prime Minister to take over the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition after the resignation of Dr Milan Pogačnik. Dejan Židan, we are moving to the final phase of the appointment of a new minister. The time needed before the proposal was submitted to the National Assembly shows how important this ministry is. In addition to the main production and economics, agriculture has other socially important functions. At the same time, it was used to inform the President of the Government publicly of the finding of the objective responsibility of Dr Milan Pogačnik, who followed the administrative court concerning the action of the dog owner, who decided that the decisions of the Veterinary Administration and the Ministry were illegal and provided for the execution of dogs and ordered the Ministry to execute the dog in a retrial, if it considered necessary, in addition to the fact that it was dangerous animals, to find that the risks to the environment could not be prevented. And that decision was the one that later became the apple of the conflict and also fateful for the dog owner who tried to get all the means to get the dogs home. With the resignation of the Minister, the activity in the implementation of the programme prepared by the Social Democrats before the elections was interrupted when we calculated that we would be able to take over this resort for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia. We have pointed out that almost half of the citizens and citizens live in rural areas, and that is why we have designed the programme for both farmers and urban people living in rural areas. Slovenia is one of the members of the European Union with an average share of rural areas, 77% of the total territory. In rural municipalities, however, there are 41% of the population. That is why we feel that the rural development programme needs to be adapted to the preservation of the population and thus to ensure the image of Slovenia, as we have been used to today. Slovenia therefore needs a strong rural development strategy, a focus on the spread of economic activities to rural areas and the integration of farms with the possibility of employment outside agriculture. The implementation of economic and structural reforms in Slovenian agriculture and rural areas is therefore an urgent development need. He's a candidate for Minister of Magic. Dejan Židan, through his programme presented by the Presidency of the Social Democrats, has pursued these objectives, as his focus is on the following themes. To complete the development of the agricultural development strategy, which will also be the basis for negotiations in the European Union on a new agricultural policy. After us is the period when the agricultural development strategy was adopted in 1993 and on the basis of which we have been able to see in particular that we are implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy and that we are trying to adapt above all institutionally to all the procedures that are necessary for us to also draw on European funds for agricultural and rural development. During this period, this can be said to have been successful, but it has also been shown that only some farms in Slovenia are able to live alone with agricultural activity and also in competition with other farms in the other Member States of the European Union. These are only about 15%. All other farms are extremely exposed and we therefore need a new agricultural development strategy in Slovenia, which will also be the basis for negotiations in the European Union on how to develop a common agricultural policy in the European Union. Thus, the adoption of the development strategy will give Slovenia the first time that it has made a very concrete development of the European Union's common agricultural policy, and this is one of the important tasks that the candidate has specifically identified and highlighted. He further pointed out that deregulation and simplification of procedures in the field of agriculture and food production are necessary, particularly in order to improve the competitiveness of agriculture. We have also met here in history with the fact that we have written down a number of measures that should not have been necessary under the European Union directives for this area, but have probably tried to protect, to some extent, officials' ignorance of regulation, and have therefore signed additional and additional regulations and tasks that have not, at last, limited our farms so that they can become more competitive and, in fact, more quickly acquire the funds that were allocated to them both in the European and Slovenian budgets. Socially in agriculture and agricultural production is what is also worrying in this area today, and he stressed that he will pay particular attention to all agricultural producers, regardless of their size. And given that it has been found that a truly very small number of farms can survive on their own, this is one of those priorities that will certainly improve the social situation of farmers in the countryside. Increasing the efficiency of public services in agriculture is also one of those tasks that will be very important. Today we can talk about the fact that we have a number of institutions that have public powers in this area or have public sector status, which are also a little distant from each other, we can say that we are often not connected. Their concern for efficiency shall cease at a time when they find that they have sufficient resources in the budget for their own activity to carry out their basic activities. It also gives a lot of activity in how to more effectively transfer development opportunities from cabinets or various offices to the field. The candidate's focus on the need for decentralisation in agriculture for individual administrative and professional functions also shows that this measure can bring us very close to those real needs in rural areas, in agriculture and that some of the services organised here today in Ljubljana, but also in rural areas, which are closer to all those situations and needs that are being followed mainly by farmers. In food production, the separation to the primary and food processing industries needs to be exceeded, not least because it is a chain that must still be tightly concluded, especially within the Slovenian space, so that we can talk about marketing Slovenian products more than we are trading today, and that the consumption of or sale of products coming to us because of the open market from other members of the European Union, as well as from other countries not members of the European Union, is decreasing. So this disagreement within the activity itself and mistrust is what will actually have to be overcome. The period when it was first tried to look at who would become the more important owner of an individual company, and not to look at whether these companies should be programmed to be more effective and, above all, to be cheaper, better-quality, must be exceeded, it must be behind us. The same applies to integration in forestry and the wood processing industry. We can also note here that the simplest business is when the forest sector tries to deal with its interests, and the timber industry is trying to find its opportunity in the domestic and also the external market. Here too, these differences will need to be bridged, the whole chain, in wood processing, from the planning of deforestation to the harvesting of this wood and further processing. All too often we meet and have met during this period with the fact that, in fact, the logging in the forest was actually limited on purpose, so that some of the political interests that were linked to the impoverishment, such as forestry services in practice, could be achieved. All of this has caused a number of damage, a very large amount of damage, which is reflected in the fact that this activity is unrelated. And this is also one of the tasks that will certainly be a major challenge for the new candidate. And if we are talking about the fact that Slovenia needs a truly strong rural development, then the candidate's orientation to try to raise the funds for development programmes by 50% and to establish effective control over the use of these funds and the achievement of results on the other hand shows that it is possible to do so with greater resources, and I hope also with the resources we already have at our disposal, to achieve even better results than we have achieved so far in the development of rural development programmes. It is particularly important here that these measures are linked to the absorption of European funds. And when we devote these training resources to work, and last but not least to irrigation and adaptation to climate change, to adapting the farm to new programmes, to building support for micro-enterprises, to rebuilding and developing villages, and finally to maintaining and improving the cultural heritage in rural areas, these are the measures that are difficult to expect and are essential to preserve rural settlements and to preserve the image of Slovenia as we know it today. I do not think that any agricultural minister in Slovenia can aim to organise life in Slovenia only in large urban centres and leave the countryside simply to be healed by the forest or processed by only a handful of large agricultural holdings. All of these are challenges that the candidate, with his views and experience so far, is also able to achieve to a large extent. That is why we will support the candidate in the Group of Social Democrats and, of course, also provide him with support for important decisions that will soon be on the agenda of the National Assembly. These relate in particular to the conservation of agricultural land, because in the last period, in the last possible eighteen years, we have lost a lot of agricultural land and here is actually a catastrophic situation that we are experiencing in some way at this point. Many, very high-quality agricultural land has also been lost, dispersed and, of course, we are talking today about how to carry out difficult comassation procedures to bring these land back together into complexes. Of course, all of this will soon be on the agenda of the National Assembly in the new Law on Agricultural Lands. I hope that in the debates in the National Assembly we will overcome this vision and debate only on whether the capital interest is the one that has the advantage, whether it is the preservation of the countryside and whether the preservation of agricultural land is truly vital for the further development of Slovenia. In doing so, we would particularly like to point out that, in our history, we have adopted in our independence an important act called the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia, in which we have made it very clear that urban centres must be very closely linked to rural areas and that the infrastructure is the one we urgently need for equitable rural development, and that these are also vital interests that we will certainly follow when we have to decide how it can reach agricultural land at some point, and whether this is really then the purpose of linking the rural area as much as possible with other urban centres. I'm sure he'll be a magician. Dejan Židan has done all these tasks with great enthusiasm, energy and also with the knowledge he has, well done, and once again at the conclusion that we will, of course, support the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, a nice welcome to the absent President of the Government and other government representatives who fled the debate and views of the members of the groups. First of all, I would like to point out that we have been waiting for a month and a half to propose a candidate for the new Minister of Agriculture. This time actually didn't have anything worth mentioning, and then we got a serious candidate overnight, nightly or holiday weekend. Everything has run out in the shortest possible time, probably so that there will be no big debate, so that we don't ask too many questions or ignore as much as possible in these discussions. For example, if we had time to prepare for the hiring session, for the Minister’s hearing only on Sunday, or after the May Day, I don’t remember. After all, the May Day festivals lost all its former glory, as one of the most important representatives and supporters of the left troika, Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic, spoke enthusiastically about labour rights on May 1st, while the workers beat the carpet at his Ljubljana stadium. Here we can already see that in all these cases and in favour of labour rights, farmers' rights and other rights for great duplicity, and in fact nothing happens in such cases. He doesn't react to inspections, he doesn't react to coalitions, he doesn't react to Pahor's political team, because they're all obviously very strongly involved in the virtual struggle for workers' rights. Even in the process of appointing the new Minister of Agriculture, the coalition has shown great service to the government, when the coalition machine has actually become an obedient tool and the National Assembly is increasingly making it increasingly impossible to work and debate somehow, even if it is necessary to discuss, say, Jankovic, Kresalova, Golobič and other coalition important representatives and, of course, their mistakes. The search for a new Minister for Agriculture revealed the lack of interest in the profession and policy within the Social Democrats Group and there it was not possible to find a candidate for this prestigious, important and responsible function. One of the invited or invited did not want to save the good name of the former minister, which he also revealed in a letter to the Prime Minister of the Government, who came to the public. We have not yet received an answer to the written request we have submitted to the President of the Government on this unusual request. Another invite to take over the Ministry again offered a conflict of interest that might arise in the installation of the road connection connecting the area of the pond and the nomadic area to the highway ring on Škofljica. Instead of solving the problem, he avoided it. Now that the municipality of Škofljica has defined the route by adopting an appropriate decision on the municipal council, it is likely that the procedure in the government will also proceed. However, this candidate, as a minister of agriculture, would probably be able to provide replacement surfaces for a midget butterfly, one of the biggest obstacles, and that would be the natural obstacles to putting the route into space. In this statement of conflict of interest, it is interesting that no conflicts of interest were detected by his fellow ministers or his fellow Members in deciding on an arbitration agreement that some holiday houses or apartments in Croatia, and the arbitration agreement must have become a major sea of coalitions and Slovenian states in general. This candidate, as Minister, could greatly contribute to the re-examination of Nature 2000, which is necessary within reasonable limits, but a wide range of obstacles to the development of the area and in particular rural development, since the Natura 2000 limit is not in the Municipality of Ljubljana or in other municipalities, but Natura 2000 concerns mainly small or rural municipalities. Again, a third or fourth party disagreed or was not satisfied with the payment or, as I mentioned earlier, with the political trade and the replacement of the sources. Obviously, agriculture for no one in the coalition is a priority resource, as there has been no panic, and we have, in reality, no operational minister for several months. After the resignation of Minister Pogačnik, the perpetrator of the duty took over the department, which was able to perform this "science" by 100% more than anticipated. And it is also clear here how quickly the government's forecasts fall, in fact on cases that it defines itself; it said, fourteen days, it lasted more than a month. And no one notices it or won't notice it. Presidents of the Government, Mr Dejan Židan, also immediately supported the Presidents of the Coalition of Zares and Liberal Democracy, Minister Golobic and Kresalov, which would otherwise relieve the tension in the coalition. However, their rapid agreement, the rapid landing, will not reduce their political responsibilities and will not prevent the debate on their affairs. The resignation of Minister Pogačnik, which took place on 10 March, prevented the discussion and clearance of political and other responsibilities in the event of a privileged return of the Bulmastifs, since the debate on this content was prevented during the interpretation. Nevertheless, this affair has collapsed many and even clientelistic links, where it has shown in a very transparent way how and how travel parastats work. In addition to Minister Pogačnik and the Social Democrats, the affair put Liberal Democracy and their President, Minister Katarina Kresal in a very unpleasant position. The coalition partners made sure that Minister Pogačnik, due to an investigation into alleged corrupt practices, had waived a completely different matter after the detention, thus seeking to achieve a diversion of attention and the completion of the Bulmastif affair. However, from today's debate and a presentation by the Prime Minister, it also shows that this manoeuvre has failed. Prime Minister Pahor, as a media-like figure, would take over the manipulation of the forced and elegant conclusion of the affair, so that this affair in some way with a beautiful reputation would sink into oblivion before all the details were cleared and all the shadows of doubt removed and everything seemed to be in the best order. If Minister Pogačnik, as well as the Social Democrats, had been washed, because the Minister had resigned, the burdens and sins of others should have been borne, objective responsibility, and then everything would have continued in this order of things. As President Pahor intended to solve this problem, it is clear from a letter from one of the candidates for Minister, Dr Igor Vojtica, who came to the public and in which he made it clear, however, the intention of Prime Minister Vojtic as a potential candidate for Minister, to protect the integrity of Dr Pogačnik, the Coalition Liberal Democracy and, above all, their Presidents, the Minister of Home Affairs. The government's disclosure of documents has brought nothing new. Nothing we wouldn't already know. It has become clear that the President of the Government of Pahor cannot decide whether it was merely an objective or possibly subjective responsibility of the former Minister. This unequivocal truce on the avoidance of further proceedings against the former Minister indicates future actions and, above all, his determination not to clear up this affair and not to come to an end. However, the role and perhaps also the guilt of the Liberal Democracy and the political and family kinship of Minister Katarina Kresal cannot be ignored. Not in this case, and not in the case of the National Investigation Office, and maybe there'll be something else to show up, because they're working with a big spoon. And the Prime Minister of the Government, for example, instead of breaking his contract with Ram Invest, put Ram Invest only on the blacklist, which means that millions of euros continue to flow into their account. Following the presentation of the candidate for minister, a new paradigm was launched - when the choice is between animal welfare and human well-being, the human well-being is always chosen. How this paradigm will work in the event of large beasts, which due to the growth and deterioration of the cultural landscape interferes with the human space of life, we will soon be able to verify. How this will work in the case of the butterfly dwarf, which is the main obstacle, the main natural obstacle to the installation of the highway connection route on the ring on Škofljica - we will also be able to check soon. How this will be achieved in the case of Nature 2000 in many other areas of the Republic of Slovenia - we will also be able to check this paradigm. Whether the word and sentence, or the sentence, that when we have a choice between an animal and a human being, prevails over the welfare of a human. We'll see. It's probably just for the sake of an event. Some stories were launched. Also, in the case of the construction of power plants on the lower Sava, where the extension with Natura 2000 is also envisaged, we will be able to check very soon what interests will prevail - whether this paradigm or inversion of this paradigm. What the coalition has to do with agriculture, we can read in the exit strategy. There is not a single agricultural measure in the exit strategy. Not one measure to address the extremely difficult situation in this area is enough! And if, in this case, we can believe the words of the President of the Government, which he said at the time of the presentation, the situation is even more difficult than in other areas, yet there is not a single direct measure in the exit strategy for the resolution of agricultural problems. But something was proposed. We proposed, last April, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, an increase in the rural pension from 220 euros to about 450 euros, as is the lowest pension. However, the coalition did not support this measure. An explanation of why they did not support it: because these poor farmers in the Slovenian countryside should not pay in the pension box. At the same time, however, the coalition with the first-signed MP, Potrče, proposed a law allowing widow's allowances after the pensioners of the Yugoslav People's Army and did not pay them into the Slovenian pension register. Some were even JLA soldiers during the aggression against Slovenia. You have granted these widowers a pension allowance after the military, even though the pensions of these insured persons are already higher than the average pensions. However, to those farmers who receive half the minimum pension, you have not admitted or denied them an increase to the minimum pension. Such differentiation, if I use the term from the period before independence, will certainly not bring positive changes in the agricultural field. If there is no State guarantee for the safe and independent age of farmers, if there is no compensation for their 40-, 50-, 60-year stay on mountain or large farms or on small and fragmented farms, then we will go or you will go through a difficult serious agricultural policy. In these cases, how to ensure the heritage and the natural process of farming, preservation of cultural landscapes, settlement at the state border, in particular at the southern border, and to ensure its protection, and so on, unless the State provides even the minimum funds for the safe age of agricultural insurers. The Slovenian People's Party also filed a similar law in October 2009, and it also fell. This is said to have failed the correctional examination of the coalition. In this way or by such an approach, it is only possible to create a grandeur when it comes to the acquisitions of abandoned or financially exhausted farms, as is the case in Pomurje or Prekmurje. The Human Resources Proposal of the President of the Government is likely to follow this concept. And here we are again at the paradox. The Ideological Coalition, which, after the Second War, broke down the nobles, desolated them and wronged them and introduced the Earth's maximum, will now restructure the countryside and create the nobles. The Slovenian Democratic Party has already proposed, twice in this mandate, amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act to speed up the comassation procedures, the right procedures to improve the parcel and ownership structure in rural areas, allowing for the creation of larger agricultural units, when appropriate, but still a sufficiently high two-thirds degree of consent, to carry out a painless structural reform of agricultural areas when they release the process of creating sufficiently large economic areas and farms, otherwise the further deterioration of farms and the protection of cultural landscapes will inevitably continue. However, both attempts at coalition were not acceptable. Even more so, last July's coalition announced that it was September last year, no later than September, to introduce a law on agricultural land, which will address this area more comprehensively, more systematically, including other solutions. Since then, almost nine months have passed, and the coalition has still not submitted a law that would move the area of commissions, parcels and farms from a dead point. And we are likely to wait some time for such or similar marriages to appear in the process. We've lost almost a year at this time. Now I wonder if there are really words about how to help rural areas, especially areas that are fragmented, where land reform and restrictions after World War II have also led to this, in order to have some serious intention of doing something in this area. If that were the purpose, those two of our attempts would have been supported and matters would have already taken place after this process, and there would have been significantly fewer complaints at the second stage and so on. But here things stand and nothing happens. According to some data, around 3,000 farms are disappearing annually, reducing the potential for self-sustainment with safe and quality food, reducing opportunities for organic farming, reducing the area of cultivated landscape and increasing dependence on foreign soils, most if not all segments of agricultural production. If we say that 41% of the population lives in rural areas, it is said, outside urban centres, and if we know that these areas are, in fact, the most affected, the most threatened areas, then this should also be followed by national, national policy. However, we are enacting a metropolis law, a capital law, we provide solutions for the richest municipality in Slovenia, but we do nothing and are unable to do anything for those areas that actually need these measures. We even have a law on coherent regional development, where it is envisaged that under this law 1.5% of GDP should be allocated - those who are financially undermined, you know that this is some 100 million euros. Now look at how much money can be divided by this law! It is no problem that the marriage is bad, the marriage is solid, still solid, although it has a very long date. The problem is that the law on the implementation of the budget removes from this law all the financial resources that have to be legally available to areas with limited factors for such and similar matters. It is certainly an important part or an important part of the countryside. Also, all that's related to the forest is forestry, the woodworking industry. Certainly, we have not done enough in this area with the use or better use of biomass and it will probably be necessary to adopt many things in this area, which will enable the wood industry, which is also in difficulty to improve the added value to wood products. As far as agriculture is concerned, and the agricultural sector is also very strongly involved in spatial policy, in spatial development. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, in two areas, it is said, in agriculture and the environment, there are acts of the congregation, for the vast majority of cases all hands have fallen. According to ZUP, when it comes to instructional hands, they are abnormally long because delays have been for a year or even more in some cases, and there is actually confirmation of the spatial acts of municipalities which are fundamental development acts, which are incredibly slow. Many or all of these acts are linked to investors, all of these acts are linked to events in the congregations, to new jobs. However, if the space is closed, if the space is blocked, there is nothing to be done in this area. A few will also point to the view that there will be difficulties in certifying acts, in particular in cases where reservations will be made to certain specific areas. The municipalities shall adopt spatial acts forward, not backward, and if an extraordinary policy is to be put in place in this area, then it is certainly not possible to count on any development. For it is impossible to accept any investor if you do not have a defined space for this in the spatial acts of the congregation that enable economic or craftsmanship, or any other development. In short, there will be a need to be extremely careful in these matters. There is also something that needs to be done to draw on European funds. The figures are worrisome in this area as regards drawing on the existing financial perspective. However, it is also worrying that negotiations are already under way on a new financial perspective, and I do not think that we do, because there is no minister, a competent representative, to fight for a new financial perspective. It is said that when large players in this area and in this policy, which is also the farthest part of the European Union budget, are divided into priorities, they can also go beyond the interests of Slovenia, because those interests are not heard there, then we will start shouting and screaming. And we're missing where it's absolutely necessary, and we're fighting where we don't have it, and we're not gonna have any benefit at all. Of course, this wrong approach is not due to the opposition in this mandate, it is the decisions of the coalition, the consequences, the problems and the problems are common and these problems are multiplying and putting pressure on both people and the country. It was also noted from the Minister's replies that he would work very hard and engage in the preparation of the agricultural strategy. It will probably be just another study task that will not experience implementation in this mandate, which will lie in drawers and agricultural reality will go its way. The candidate's responses to the hearing do not give rise to the basis or hope for a more fundamental change in agricultural policy and it was noted from the reply that the existing structures in the agricultural ministry would have an important role in this area. And now, if the coalition environment in which it takes over or assumes the tasks of a future minister is bad, then this does not give hope that a candidate who can be highly professionally qualified will also bring about significant changes in the agricultural field. And here I must make it very clear that in our Group we do not support such an approach to solving the economic situation in the country and not such an approach to solving agricultural problems in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. Agriculture is an important sector, but unfortunately in Slovenia in great difficulty. This is also illustrated by the fact that the Prime Minister of the Government has been looking for a new minister for so long. Some of the candidates who showed up at that time were very good, but unfortunately they did not want to actively enter this story, and this only confirms the claim that there is a whole range of things in the area of agriculture in the blind street. Fertilisation of agricultural areas is a problem in Slovenia and a new minister is waiting for a highly cultivated and neglected field. Not only in nature, but also in agriculture as a whole. That is why we want him to have the courage, courage and strength to cut through a lot of the past. In doing so, it will be important for workers and we hope that they will be able to find new people for new approaches and priorities in agriculture and food production and control. The future Minister of Agriculture has the full support of Zares in the enforcement of the security reservation in the area of the cultivation of genetically modified plants and in opposition to Slovenia's introduction of new genetically modified plants in the European Union. What we expect is a respected candidate, mag. Diane jedan? Citizens want safe quality food, we want such projects and plans so that we can buy mainly domestically produced food and not mainly imported vegetables and fruit from European wholesales. We expect adequate supervision and professionally independent institutions that will influence confidence that control is in place, and we are pleased that the candidate advocates clear and visible labelling. We want more emphasis on ecological farming and rural development, which will also help solve a number of social problems. We will support the candidate for the Minister of Agriculture in his announced concern about agricultural land insurance and increasing self-sustainment and food security in Slovenia. Unfortunately, Slovenian agriculture is still characterised by low productivity, low labour intensity and low professionalisation compared to the state of agriculture in the developed Member States of the European Union. There are also markedly negative demographic and economic trends in the Slovenian countryside. For this reason, Slovenia does not meet its needs for agri-food products with home-grown food. The rate of self-sustainment with vegetables is below 40%, with cereals between 50% and 60%, and with fresh fruit and potatoes between 60% and 70%. The experience of the global financial crisis and economic recession, which has also painfully cut into Slovenian society, reminds us that we need to change the development strategy so far. In the Parliamentary Group, we therefore support the nomination of the candidate for minister in order to give priority in his work to the completion of the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture. However, we expect that in developing the strategy, it will also take into account the guidelines and objectives of the programme to ensure greater self-sustainment with locally produced Marjetica agricultural and food products. The Marjetica programme has multi-layer effects and positive effects on different levels of life in our society. In particular, with its impact on increasing self-sustainment with domestically grown fresh food, on agriculture, on rural development, food security, environmental protection, conservation of natural resources, conservation of processed agricultural land, conservation of biodiversity and preservation of cultural landscapes. The added value of Marjetica is also in that it focuses not only on rural development but also on building a co-existence between rural and urban areas. Therefore, the city benefits greatly from the implementation of this programme. The rural development programmes so far lacked this connection. The two-way relationship between the city and the countryside is essential if we want the countryside to develop effectively. The countryside markets its products in the city and the efficient marketing of rural products is that additional key motive for rural development. The rural development programme has been implemented in Slovenia for more than a decade. However, if we look at the results of the state of the Slovenian countryside, we see that these are poor. Despite years of effort and investment, there are no desired results. So far, a number of partial attempts have been made in Slovenia to establish a much-needed partnership between the countryside and the city, which would bring both of them great benefits. However, these experiments are mainly due to large fragmentation in the national space, unfortunately not at the level of the first steps. A respected magus. Dejan Židan, today we will really support you as the new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In doing so, we hope to receive a good, well-launched and energetic full minister. Food and self-sustainment remain strategic objectives essential to the right of citizens and citizens. We will be pleased if we feel more secure at the end of your term and that Slovenia will be able to ensure to its citizens and citizens that they can be fed, that food is quality, healthy, adequately controlled and that agricultural land is adequately protected and that their price and value are significantly higher.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Nice greetings to all present once again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have repeatedly raised concerns about the unsuccessful search for a candidate for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. This area seems to us to be one of the most important, and given the situation in agriculture, we are not surprised that it is one of the least desirable sources. Slovenian agriculture has had a lot of problems without the economic and financial crisis and without the affairs that have been shaken up by the ministry lately. We are therefore pleased that the President of the Government has finally given us the right and acknowledged the objective responsibility of Mr Pogačnik, former Minister of Agriculture, for the resulting affair by returning dangerous dogs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that in some way the future Minister of Agriculture saved the ungrateful resolution of the circumstances of the tragedy and the procedures for returning the dogs in question and thus gave him the opportunity to deal with problems that daily and increasingly plague agriculture. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that the Prime Minister has finally been able to find a candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and this has been the time. Of course, we hope that Mr jedan's management experience will have a good impact on his possible management of the agricultural resource. In our opinion, the management approach is welcome in the public administration. We are also convinced that such an approach is lacking today throughout the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Minister must also know the system of action of public administration and, above all, the mission of public interest. If Mr Židan takes over the management of the agricultural base, he faces many challenges and we expect him to address them with all wisdom and momentum in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We expect him to be able to establish the right relationship between small farmers, family farms and agricultural enterprises, because everyone is needed to develop and maintain rural areas. Important is the so-called small farmer who from day to day is working for his existence, for the existence of his farm, for his job, as well as for the existence and appearance of the entire Republic of Slovenia. In particular, this form of farming must be maintained and promoted in the border areas of the Republic of Slovenia. We expect the new Minister to be in the process of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia through the Agricultural Lands Act, which should already be in the procedure of the National Assembly of Slovenia, but he is not, unfortunately, capable of establishing a good land policy through this law. The shrinking of agricultural areas is an extremely serious problem that appears to be on the rise in the future. The biggest problem is the cultivation of areas that become uninteresting in agricultural activity, including by small farmers who are slowly abandoning their basic activity. On this issue, we hope that the Minister will be able to include the Agricultural Land Fund, which in some way could make abandoned land interesting for farmers who still have an interest in investing in agriculture. In this context, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we also expect certain restrictions and corrections in the current policy of change of destination from agricultural land to wall. There are many regulatory inconsistencies affecting agriculture, including disputed provisions The Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have already helped and written changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which are correcting the situation and which we hope will also be supported by the new Minister. There will also be a lot of change in forest management. For too long, it has been waiting for this agricultural land law, the promotion law, and the agricultural development strategy to be adopted by 2020, so that we are not talking about anti-crisis measures that are not at all. Here, in our view, are the real problems of the agricultural sector, which will have to be resolved as soon as possible. Finally, let me just say that from the presentation of the candidate on the Committee we conclude that he is very well aware of the agricultural issue, that he has touched on such issues as food security, multifunctionality of Slovenian agriculture, environmental protection, common European agricultural policy and European resource drawback, sustainable development, public intervention in the agricultural sector, reduction of administrative barriers and greater efficiency of public services related to agriculture. The tendency to agree on the agricultural strategy also seems to us to be the right way. The problem of the price of products has been highlighted, where there is an absolute gap between what it receives for its agricultural product, the farmer, the processing industry, and what the trader ultimately deserves. In this area it would be absolutely necessary to change something, especially with the promotion law itself, or to promote greater local self-sustainment with food products, or with actions such as "I buy Slovenian" and so on. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Groups, we support the majority of the candidates for Minister Mag. The actual Jew, his views on the situation in agriculture, and somehow it seems to us that proposals and possible solutions are also good, but we strongly hope that after the appointment it will not lead back together again and remain in words, as has happened too many times so far at this or at any other ministry. We strongly hope that you will quickly get to work, because after all, the work at the Ministry of Agriculture has stopped somehow over the last six months. But the consequences are suffering our no-thin farmers. We hope that the candidate will receive political support in the government, which will be needed with additional resources in the budget, and in this way solve the pressing problems in agriculture, because it is time for us all to realize that agriculture is a strategically important sector, which is aware of very many people throughout Slovenia and around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will be supported by a mag. Actual Jewish Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. As can be seen from the presentation of the candidate and from the media reporting, it is a person who comes from a profession and is not alien to agromension. Mag. Židan presented some urgent tasks which, according to his assessment, need to be carried out in Slovenian agriculture if we are to remain competitive and successful with our agriculture. We agree with most of these tasks, but we hope that it will also be able to carry them out with great will, as only half of the mandate remains before it. Particular emphasis will have to be placed on the strategy for the development of agriculture in Slovenia. We need to know what kind of agriculture we're going to have in the future. We particularly agree with the candidate's assessment that in the agricultural field too, there is a need to insist on decentralisation of the administration and that there is no reason for individual administrative and professional functions to be carried out in Ljubljana. Here we can also give a good example of the adoption of the law on the development of Pomurje. Why should we not have part of the agricultural administration in the most agricultural areas? We also agree with the candidate that the current crisis has created a threat to the part of the agricultural population, and it is therefore necessary to develop within the Ministry a social programme and measures that will create security for those Slovenian farmers most affected by the crisis. At this point, however, I would like to express my concern about the use of European funds. Our country still does not know whether or not it can effectively draw money from the European Union, so we have much less resources than we could. We are confident that the candidate for a minister will be able, in cooperation with the upcoming services, to accelerate the absorption of these funds that are available to us and which we would urgently need to develop the most attractive areas of Slovenian agriculture, such as the development of agricultural economies, the reconstruction and development of the village. It is worrying that we have €30.3 million at our disposal in this area, and that we have absorbed only €1 million - irrigation, climate challenges, conservation and improvement of rural heritage and so on. Let me touch on another issue here, which is very important for the development of local communities, namely municipal spatial plans. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food provides guidance on the issue of municipal spatial plans, but unfortunately this is quite slow. We are therefore convinced that the new Minister will be able to overcome the current practice of the Ministry and speed up these procedures, which are essential for the development of local communities. We believe that he will be able to harmonise the tendency to maintain agricultural land and guidelines for treacherous municipal spatial plans in a way that will move the development of local communities forward, but not at the expense of reducing the number of agricultural land. We are particularly convinced of this because the candidate himself comes from areas where agricultural lands are the ones that allow not only the provision of our country with agricultural crops, but also the survival of many Slovenian families. The future minister will have to pay particular attention to self-sustainment in Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we regret that because of the haste we have witnessed in this proposal, the candidate did not come to our parliamentary group to present himself to us. Because, according to our assessment, this way we Members will be given a better opportunity to at least get to know the candidate personally and to talk about his priorities and the vision of the ministry. On the other hand, we understand this urgency, as one of the most demanding ministries has been without its minister for two months. Fortunately, Dr. Gjerkes currently, in addition to his Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, led the agricultural ministry, so that the work at the Ministry was quite normal, but it did not go on indefinitely. We are therefore delighted, despite the urgency, that the Prime Minister has played his part and has found a suitable man or candidate for minister. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the Ministry must be headed primarily by a strong man with managerial experience, with a clear vision of leadership, who will be able to coordinate work within his department in favour of Slovenian agriculture, who will be able to choose a special team that will be well matched by different stakeholders, such as the Slovenian Farmers' Union, the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, the Fund of Agricultural Lands. We are confident that the candidate has all these qualities, so we will be happy to support him in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Good day to you all. After a long time and a hard time trying to get the Minister of Agriculture, we just got him. Mrs Katarina Kresal successfully dropped the previous one due to matters relating to more different spheres than agriculture, however. She succeeded, and now the Prime Minister has succeeded in getting someone who is willing to take over this ministry two years before the collapse of the current coalition. Since 1992, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has been going all the way down. Nothing or nothing has been done so far by the government to improve anything. The matter is worse every day, more smug every day, and more unconceptual every day. The fact is that we are talking about some of the priorities, some of the development strategies, but we have not taken one step further to implement any good idea in this area. The whole type of stupidity is happening, and when we look at Slovenian agricultural surfaces, we see that there are fewer and fewer of them, that they are increasingly being cultivated, that agriculture is being directed in those directions and those ways of development that have long since been abandoned in the developed world, that in the ministry they do not know what this is, despite having as many as 1,054 employees. Of these, they could safely be thrown onto the road at least 600 to 700 and the agricultural ministry would act normally, nicely, of course, because those who remained should be responsible not only for the National Assembly, but especially for their constituents and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This responsibility is not, for everyone cares about what is going on, the main thing is to get something in their pockets - usually those who already have the most. How subsidies were distributed in agriculture, we know. We also know which party actually had the agricultural ministry in its hands, most of it since 1992. And that's how it went. That's why this report or presentation of the candidate for minister somehow doesn't convince me. We are talking about the completion of the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture by 2020 and the establishment of priority objectives. It's almost 20 years, which could at least have been the targets if not something else. We don't even have goals. Now, by 2020, we will somehow figure out what we want and where we want; the strategy is much less. Therefore, it is not surprising that we have a little more than 3% of the money from European funds. And what we draw usually goes into private pockets, not where it should go. There is talk of deregulation and simplification of procedures in the field of agriculture and food production. We should have done this a long time ago. We should have approached those who drive food abroad long ago, for procedures in those countries are much easier. And it is, of course, much easier to import food than to produce it at home, because if possible, we will do everything we can to ensure that these things are not carried out as they should be. On the other hand, we also have farmers who speculate and who, for example, are very happy to produce corn, because there is the biggest profit here, because if there is no other, the country will recover the damage when the hailstone breaks that corn. But no one thinks it's the corn that's actually destroying all the lowland game. And instead of thinking about how nature is being restored and how this co-natural development is going on, we are doing stupid things, because there are going to be some subsidies, the state is going to be giving the most resources to the Ministry of Agriculture, from which the 1,054 "journeys" are being kept there at the Ministry and, of course, some of the large and fat farmers in particular. For the state itself, we do virtually nothing. Mr Židan next speaks in his presentation on social policy in agriculture. If we have the right goals and if we have a strategy, then social policy is regulated. Then we do not need an additional social policy. What is social policy? Are we going to give in addition to 570,000 Slovenian citizens who are receiving various kinds of social assistance now that I have given farmers to save social policy in agriculture? It seems that the candidate for a minister does not know exactly what he would like to do, because his point on social policy in agriculture is - um - very strange. Above all, something should have been done in this area a long time ago. Then there is an increase in the efficiency of public services in agriculture. Either way, there's a whole bunch of these public services. They do nothing to each other, propose certain measures, which are then avoided collectively. Development and progress - none. It's all too much. I think that one good inspection service would do more than all public services in agriculture, not increase them and increase the number of employees in the agricultural ministry. As far as decentralisation in agriculture is concerned, we can think that there is an even greater fragmentation of Slovenian agriculture in the back. What does decentralisation mean? That each congregation will determine what will be cultivated there, how it will grow there, and the neighboring congregation will have something of its own, rather than being governed by the state? Here we come to the conclusion that there will be no control or that control will be even less than it was. In food production, of course, we are back on the issue of co-natural management and that, however, it is necessary for Slovenian farmers to be overlooked that the increased consumption of insecticides, pesticides, repellents, and I do not know what else, does not lead to greater production of a particular article, but rather to greater toxicity of the Slovenian environment and Slovenian citizens, but nobody cares when the question here is a few cents of earnings for a ton of any product. In the Slovenian National Party, we will decide in a very special way when voting for the Minister. One of the Members will vote for the Minister, one of the Members will vote against the Minister and one of the Members will abstain or press the quorum. Mr Barovic is not, otherwise we agreed that two Members of Parliament and two Members of Parliament would "against" because Mrs Kresal and the police forces would not break into Parliament again, and because of any kind of suspicion of bribery, they would lock up and drive away and then work at home with us and I don't know what. The matter is just so focused that in Slovenia it is now necessary to be careful. Fellow Members, be careful how you vote. We are even thinking about taking 20 to 45 minutes off to agree which of the Members would vote in a special way. Well, since in this case it might seem to anyone that I had too much influence, we were thinking if we called some public around the National Assembly an independent committee that would set it all together, and we also said that if we did, Mrs Kresalova would already remember that certainly someone from the Commission was "stamped" and screamed to express her opinion and that she would force a certain way of voting. In short, Slovenia's adultery, we will get a new minister, no matter how the Slovenian National Party votes. But I don't think there'll be anything better in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I promise not to talk about the Bulmastiffs, not Minister Kresal, but about the Minister of Agriculture. The promise is quite broad support from the Mags. The support of our Group of Members, already justified by colleague Tadej Slapnik. He convinced us with his views on some of the key and strategic issues of Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farming. Also with its attitude towards such topical, hot topics and problems as genetically modified food or quality issues, agricultural production safety and agricultural or agricultural crops and, of course, food. We are also inspired by the knowledge that food is strategically important and self-sustainment is also a long-term strategic goal that we need to achieve in the best, most rational and most quality way. There are examples and good practices in Europe. There are also systems of action in the spirit of social responsibility also in the development of agriculture, the development of cooperatives, which also operate in an extremely efficient way. In neighbouring countries, we have quite a few such cases. I will also use these few minutes for an emphasis that may look regionally, locally, but which speaks of the special niche of our agriculture, which has been unfortunately in all the mandates and the National Assembly and also in all governments quite neglected, and this is one piece that can contribute greatly to a better supply and, above all, to healthy food. We all know that the Mediterranean diet is extremely important to be promoted around the world to promote it particularly in Europe. And Slovenia also has this great advantage that it is also an continental, Alpine, sub-balp, Pannonian and Mediterranean country. This also means a great opportunity in terms of farming, as our olive farmers, our winemakers, the producers of those Mediterranean crops, which are always highly valued, highly sought and often lacking. But the key problem that the minister will have to take into account is how to encourage and support these cultures, these specific boutique agricultural industries. In many discussions with our farmers, in particular with these special farmers, olive farmers and winemakers, based on the tradition of Mediterranean farming, I have seen the expectation that this government would, however, stop marginalising this type of agriculture in a way that would allow for faster development, for example, of olive trees offering us exceptional quality; we all know that Slovenian olive oil is among the best in the Mediterranean, in the world. And it is because of this climate and geographical position that all factors are actually offering us an opportunity that needs to be evaluated systematically. What does that mean? This means that it will also be necessary to intervene with appropriate tax policy and such, small industries, which offer high quality and high added value, to offer better conditions for us to get high quality Slovenian olive oil on shelves slightly cheaper. For today it is of exceptional quality, unfortunately, still expensive and uncompetitive, compared with other Mediterranean countries. So, I allowed myself to mention this problem because I know that unfortunately there was never enough listening for these special, even though continental, continental Slovenians are all more excited about olive oil, winemaking, buying their plantations in Slovenia, they are very interested in it. But when it comes to systemic resolution of the situation of olive trees, of course, you need to listen more and more energy. The second question that I will raise here is the question of fisheries, although it has already been raised in some of the introductions, including by my colleague Saiovic. As you know, it is also a boutique industry that has a strong cultural dimension, especially when we want to prove that we are not only a Mediterranean country, but also a maritime state, and we are working to finally regulate the status and conditions of our fishermen, who now do not know where they can fish, with the fact that the Gulf of Markets is becoming increasingly polluted, at least too "noble" with heavy metals. It is therefore essential to ensure a situation where they can fish and offer healthy fish, and of course it is not possible to ignore the fact that only economics and only market principles destroy ice fishing. Recently, the historically important fish industry, Delamaris, had to leave its natural hinterland or natural habitat and move to Notranjska, Pivko. Of course, because of market criteria that are difficult to avoid, but with smart agricultural policy and with particular attention to these specific sectors, it would also be possible to resolve this historically important industry of Izole. I have touched on the problems of my region, even though I am aware that similar problems could be found elsewhere. For example, the visa of another exceptional offer of Slovenia, this is the noisy oil which I value very much and also use, and comes from the very opposite end of Slovenia, and in my opinion this is one of those offers that must also be properly evaluated. I'm not talking about any other industries here. I'm not an expert on agriculture. Once again, I lay on the soul of Minister Mag. To the Jew: greater attention to these special farmers. In Slovenia, olivers are organized into the Society of Olivers of Slovenian Istria, so-called DOSI. I hope that they will become a serious interlocutor and that their proposals for better tax approaches will also be duly taken into account. Surely, I am sure that Mr Židan, as an agro-manager, will listen to these expectations, to these requirements and also to take appropriate action in cooperation with other departments dealing with the financial salary of agriculture, in particular the Ministry of Finance. That's all for now. I wish the Minister a successful job. I am sure it is full of energy and knowledge, and I hope to see it anywhere in Slovenia, including in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. According to the information I have, the future Minister of Mag. Dejan Židan proved that he can work hard to organize, that he can lead the company in the direction of good or excellent results of the company entrusted with running it. According to the information I have, it is also true that with work and results some are satisfied. It is also true that many who are not satisfied with its results are those of small farmers, small farms. I have received information that a considerable number of cooperatives and farms are either at the brink of collapse or have already ceased their activities in the Panvita area of operation due to price recovery. In my opinion, Mr Židan is the manager of the capitalist and globalisationist type. This is, for today and for the current situation in Slovenia and in Slovenian agriculture, the wrong direction and the wrong type of manager. We're talking about social management today. We need a combination in Slovenian agriculture. While it will be difficult to pursue this objective, the economy is inexhaustible and only knows the return on capital, profit for the owners. This is where the country has to play its part. In Slovenia we have, I can say, very negative experience with globalisation acquisitions. We have three merchants who have almost settled prices, they have destroyed small shops that have also worked in the countryside, and these big traders have no logic of the economy yet to think of working in the countryside to do business outside of larger settlements. Only agricultural cooperatives still insist on their rural shops. There's almost the same situation in dairy. I wonder when this will ever happen if it does not approach any better solution to this problem. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Economy, may also use the assistance of the State, the relevant ministries. The distribution of profits between farmers, processing and traders is wrong, not fair. Why is the farmer in such a subordinate position opposite the processing, food production and trader? Not because of ignorance or lack of education, but because of weakness and both financial and time constraints. Our farmer must work hard from morning to evening all the days of the week, month and year. There is simply no time to be successfully organised and placed in an equal position against the main players in the field of agriculture, nutrition and forestry. However, those who should have been supportive of this farmer have taken care of their positions in the first place. And the result of that? The farmer became passive, living better than social support than working on small farms. And where does that lead us? In fertilising our landscape and increasing dependence on food imports. Our food supply is below 50% according to some data. This is a very disturbing information. In the presentation itself, I also noted the information, among the goals and experiences of the Minister: "The second experience he has gained is that Slovenian agriculture and food production are functional, composed of small, medium and large farms and companies. The gathering of all these entities allows Slovenian agricultural production to be flexible and, on the other hand, integration allows for the collection of sufficient resources for the joint promotion of break-in to foreign markets." At home we have enough room, at home we have a large enough market for such malnutrition or insufficient self-sustainment. It is necessary to market and it is necessary to help our companies to be able to market equally, to advertise their products equally, such as Danone. This matter is expensive and here without any major actions on "use domestics", it would be possible to co-finance such things and I am sure that there could be some moderate dependence, which is in my opinion a maximum of 20%. I'm sure we'll get a new minister today. I'll abstain from voting, but if I go to the beginning, I'd say so. Mr. Secretary has proven that he can work well for the owners. From now on, we will be the owners, our farmers as large as small, and we must work for the benefit of all these farmers and for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. And here we will need a switch from a capitalist or globalisation leader to a leader who will be able to take this matter well for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. He's a candidate for Minister of Magic. Dejan Židan was evaluated at the hearing as an expert who knows the profession, for which he also has the appropriate education and experience. It is true that we would all want an ideal Minister for Agriculture, who is in a bad position in Slovenia, not because of the poor ministers, but because of the harmonisation legislation with Europe, which we believed was good, and later it turned out that we should not meet Europe in everything. It is therefore necessary for us to have a minister in this responsible place who will be able to take this area to better times for agriculture and for people who also deal with agriculture. To know how to produce healthy food, which will be available to all our citizens at a favourable price, that forests will not only be cut down and exported and that added value will be created by foreigners. In order to assess which land, including forests on the outskirts of urban settlements, will be built, as expansion of the building on forest and agricultural land is a constant that is carried out despite the free capacity within urban settlements and is subject to the interests of land owners and capital that always prevails over reason. I will support the candidate in the hope that he will respond to such and similar pressures and work in line with the development of agricultural activities and rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good day to all in the hall! I must say that today is the day when I have listened to statements and statements and debates, even though we have not come to the half of the predicted time, which has nothing to do with the proposal to appoint a Minister for Agriculture. I just think that no one has mentioned when Jesus Christ was born, but everything else since then we have heard, by not saying much about it, well, I have to be honest, not anyone, but those who have allowed themselves to talk about any topics that have no connection, as I said, with the appointment of the minister, did not mention that he is in front of the Minister of Agriculture, whether he is directed capitalistically and globally or is directed neoliberally, very hard work, because he will have to continue the very positive movements that have occurred since the government's accession to agriculture, forestry and nutrition since the end of 2008. It is fair to admit that in the past year, the Ministry of Agriculture managed to catch a large part of the backlog or to settle most of the backlogs of direct payments for farmers in Slovenia, that there were almost no backlogs in January, while the Ministry and Minister Pogačnik accepted backlogs that amounted to a year and more. Despite the financial crisis, we have managed to achieve what the previous ministers and governments have failed. We could still list it. I would tell the new minister, who has no doubt that he will implement the government's programme in this area and the coalition's programme, also at the presentation of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, so that, despite the unusual insults we have heard about them in connection with his work so far, I believe that we will work well together, but above all I want to do so, and I also want this country and farmers not to be afraid of what happened to his predecessor. For I am deeply convinced that the real reasons for the resignation of Minister Pogačnik are to hide everything other than events that are constantly repeated and cited as the reason for his resignation. In fact, it is that he intervened in the rights that some have acquired, acquired through the Law of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, that the Law on Agricultural Lands is prepared in the same direction and that it is also announced - and I am sure that we will also adopt it in this mandate - a law on forests that will allow forests and agricultural land to be used, exploited, to be used for what we want to protect. Transposing on how severely endangered agricultural land is, only because this government has started to systematically finance the cultivation of agricultural land, we know that in the past 20 years the area under the forests has grown due to this growth, instead of ensuring that the quality of existing forests is good enough and that they are also used in accordance with what we have written down and recorded in the forestry plans. I am confident that this Minister will be able to make use of all the reserves that were available at the time he worked in the economy, because he will also be able to make use of all the reserves that are in the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular the reserves in the human potential, in the knowledge that employees in the Ministry of Agriculture have. I am also convinced that he will know those who are not prepared to devote their knowledge, abilities and time to their work and to the tasks for which they have been assigned to the Ministry, including removing them from the Ministry. The fact is that almost 1,100 employees at the Ministry of Agriculture do not justify or justify their working relationship so that the results of their work can be far more visible and more fruitful. However, I think that a person who, as has been said, will also work a lot on the effects of capital, through the fact that he forced farmers into low redemption prices - although I have little doubt about this - but because we have a market for agricultural crops for which we have prices set, is that even in the economy they cannot afford some major routes in this area, so that they can draw from people what is best and what is of the best quality in this ministry. I would like to see the end of the mandate see even greater success in this area within the government than we have seen so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the introduction, I would like to say that in some way I agree to a certain extent with Mrs Pecanovo, who said that today or some of us have talked about everything else, not what we should actually be talking about. I'd like to start with the Prime Minister. The fact is that the President of the Government today had 10 minutes to explain further, but an additional explanation of the candidate's proposal for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I was looking at an hour, and he spent 9 minutes on the "bulmastif" affair, just a minute, and actually a little less, for the presentation of the candidate for the Minister of Agriculture. At the outset, I can say that I am somewhat disappointed with the attitude of the President of the Government, who is nevertheless a motioner and could explain a lot more today. I hope he comes back and says something about Mr. Jew. The fact is that we were somewhat limited in time on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Since the meeting started at 2 p.m., it was necessary to close and everyone had actually only one set of issues available. On the basis of the responses of the candidate for minister, new and new issues have been opened and still need to be asked. The fact is, I listened very carefully to the presentation. I've also read the tape very carefully. It must also be said in the introduction that the result of the vote was not as unanimous as it was presented in the media. It's been shown 8 "for" and nothing "against". But the fact is, we were in Hall 11. What I'm saying is that I expect the coalition to take responsibility and also support the candidate. You know, it's important to know that it's practically impossible to assess someone after a 15-minute exposition on the board and, in my opinion, a few answers. And it would also be irresponsible for me to now determine how good or bad this candidate for minister is. I'm sure you know the candidate better in the coalition, and you'll end up giving him support with ease. Although in a way, I have some doubts, given the speed and conspiracies of all the events surrounding the appointment or the search for a candidate for minister, so to speak, over the weekend, and I don't think you know what kind of person you're going to confirm today. I wish you a happy hand and a happy hand to the future minister, because I believe he will be elected because the coalition will carry out this matter as expected. The first statement by the candidate for minister I saw in the public was: "Slovenian agriculture is without purpose, without vision and without strategy." And you're all talking about how good a friend of agricultural policy is in Slovenia. And if he has declared what I know, then I can say that he may really know the state of Slovenian agriculture this time. It's been a year and a half since this government performed. For three months there was some sort of introduction, the 100 days of peace. Within a few months, you passed a law that was interestingly linked to the coalition, and then there was an "bulmastif" affair and six months there was nothing at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Nothing! These are the data I got from people I can tell you that they know how it was done in this department. It was only about getting rid of the situation. What have we done in one year and a half in the area of agriculture, which is also in crisis, in a deep crisis such as the economy and the financial sector? We didn't do anything. The strategy does not mention saving agriculture. Not a word. This government's exit strategy does not have that in it. The Minister has so far worked in the Panvita group, which is a fairly large processing chain for the Slovenian situation. I wonder what his attitude will be to processors in such chains and what his attitude will be to a farmer - also to a small, smallest farmer. Right now, at the worst of all, there are farmers who get far from the end of the cake at least. See, in the media, after a hearing at the Home Labor Committee, it was also heard or also followed up on the candidate's account of serious criticism. I hope that he will realize what he foretold at the hearing where he said: "In relation to the processing industry and to the small farmer Slovenian agricultural and processing space is, and it is good that it is multifunctional. As agricultural minister, I will be aware of the importance of each of these three segments, and I will try to create the best opportunities for development for each of these segments." And then he said, "But in the final stage, development depends on each individual." Does that mean we're gonna leave the farmer alone again? I think farmers should be helped at the time. That's when the farmer needs help. What has happened in the previous term or in this mandate? The Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands was adopted. This law is contaminated. An investigation has taken place and I wonder whether this law has been enacted legally or not. I wonder what his reaction will be, whether this law will remain in the form it is, or whether there will always be a shadow of doubt on it. The Law on Agricultural Lands - The Slovenian Democratic Party has twice tabled the amendment of this law and has always been rejected with the same explanation: This law is being prepared by the Ministry and will regulate the matter in an integrated manner. We've been waiting a year for this marriage, and it's gone. It's a key agricultural law. Maybe a few more words about the municipal spatial plans. In fact, everything stops at the Ministry of Agriculture and Development. Everything stops there and I'm worried about a statement by the minister's candidate who said that, now I'm going to quote, "...you need to look, too, I know cases, I hope there aren't many of them, we're going to review cases of change of destination to reserve. This is some phenomenon that is harmful, so that future development is not planned and is only planned because there are no financial consequences behind it, and I must say that in fact, when I think about the financial implications, when I think about the source of the earmarked money to change land into agricultural land, I really see a lot of potential in the area of essentially the benefits that arise from changing destination." See, this statement is worrying about the development of Slovenia. I wonder what of these 5%, which was also mentioned by the candidate for minister himself, of Slovenian agricultural land that is growing. My proposal is and I think it would be right, first of all, to stop the cultivation of agricultural land and then to stop the development of local communities in the way that is happening. I think that this is a forecast of too much rigid policy in spatial change, which leads in some way to stagnation. They'll tell their colleagues more, but I'd like to conclude with a key point. In his presentation, he spent most or most of his time speaking and preparing a strategy for the development of agriculture in Slovenia. I am afraid, as my colleague Tanko said at the outset today, that this will be just another study assignment that will lie in drawers and nothing will change. The candidate's answers, in the end, I can say, have gone this way so that there will be no significant changes in agricultural policy. If that's the case, then it's not a good road trip for agriculture. I give the coalition Members and Members this opportunity to decide whether or not to confirm the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Kek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Crane, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! If I have correctly understood the introductory debate of Mr President of the Government, today's appointment of the new Minister of Agriculture would like to end the Baricevic affair without a proper epilogue, without the right answers, without the right responsibility of those who have violated many, many rules and even the Animal Protection Act in the process of returning these dangerous dogs. Today it is crystal clear that the Slovenian People's Party, which warned about irregularities already last June and again this year, was absolutely right, and the interpretation against the Minister of Agriculture of Pogačnik was justified. We could say she was successful. We were right last year, and we were right this year. The competent authorities and those who researched everything together took three months to find out what we said in our client last year, last June, and what many media said last June, I will say again: Good morning, good morning. But I wonder what will happen to those who are under pressure and who are in violation of the rules and laws in order to serve someone. They broke one marriage. There was no conflict between the laws. It's not like that. There's no conflict between marriages. One law was violated: the applicable animal protection law. What will happen to those who have lied to the public and to the public since the tragic event? Among them were important employees, including important politicians. Will we forgive them? Are we going to step over? What will we do to ensure that those who have been exposed in this affair are not afraid? How do we protect them? How will we protect the veterinarians and other public servants who have been under pressure in one way or another? Today I can even say under threat that the dog is coming back. How do those who know a lot not hope to speak? Dear colleagues, this is not normal. It is not normal for a person today to be in a position of power, status, political, property or any other, pressure, intimidation and threat to public officials and others in the administrative process to achieve what he wants. Mr President, we hold you to your word and expect that subjective responsibility will also be established. If we found out that there was a violation of the law, it was probably not broken by Martians, but was violated by someone with a name and a surname. How can we today say that this is not a matter of criminal responsibility? How can we say that? I guess that's what we need to find out and check. I do not expect all this from the new Minister of Agriculture, because the new Minister of Agriculture will have a lot to do with many important agricultural issues. By the way, those who have besieged our views when we have been saying that the Baricevic affair cannot and cannot be or can not be the work of the new minister, I now answer you publicly: we want to explore the Baricevic affair to the end, including with subjective responsibilities. I expect the Prime Minister to be subjective. [[also criminal]] Those who have committed self - confidence, and above all, who have deliberately violated the law. Since the pressures were on us too, it certainly was not a violation of the laws or the law of ignorance, nor was ignorance justifiable. As far as the mags are concerned. I can tell you that we've known each other for a while, especially since we haven't been in politics. At the time, I respected him as an economist, as an expert, as a man, as someone who knows what he wants. Even now that we are both deeply involved in politics, there can be nothing else. I also now respect him as an economist, as an expert, as a man, and as someone who knows what he wants. Mag. He has so far been a Jew in an economy that was directly linked to agriculture. He played football for one team, and he dealt naked for her. Now he's switching to a new team, and I expect him to be so successful about this team. I expect him to face the problems of Slovenian agriculture immediately, especially the problems of a small farmer, to deal with the preparation of a strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture, to deal with the problems of agricultural land, the ownership consolidation of agri-food production and could also be listed. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will certainly monitor all these activities closely and actively involve ourselves in this, even criticising it if anything is wrong. But I'm worried about where we all brought the minister's position together. Today, virtually no one else wants to be a minister, except maybe some professor who can return to his old position at any time. Everyone should be concerned about that. But when there is someone who hopes to do so, who hopes to take responsibility, and here I also remember the debate that took place in this hall at my candidacy, and all the manure - all the manure - that is found on this candidate. Let's give him time to prove himself. And, Dean, I wish you well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mag. As a candidate for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I have had the opportunity to hear twice about agriculture so far. He has a successful professional career in the veterinary profession and education, but now he is said to be an agro-manager. Depending on where we end up dealing with things, some may object to the fact that the agromanger, the other bothers that he is a veterinarian, and I do not mind one another, but I trust that the work that he is willing to take on if we give him support today will be done with all commitment. And if, in his work, he is as systematic and planned as he knew systematically, clearly and rigorously to present his position on the status of agriculture and the tasks ahead of him, then this part of the government's mandate will be successfully accomplished and will successfully deal with the problem that is always present when an individual has to step into someone else's shoes. The shoes left behind by Minister Dr. Pogačnik were not completely outgrown because he had decided to leave the post before. This is, of course, a situation in which a lot of people who step in his place could express a number of concerns or non-recognitions about the work they have done, but I have a Mag candidate. In fact, he liked the fact that he acknowledged what was necessary, and he did not hide from being a professional and professional colleague and a friend. What I think is worth telling me right now, and what has now been heard from some of the debates, how this area has been neglected in this mandate so far, but I would say something small that I have seen in monitoring agriculture at this time. That Minister Pogačnik was able to arrange direct payments that are currently under way for direct producers, which I believe is essential to the situation in agriculture. That the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands has been passed - I believe that this thorn is in the fifth and that some have already said where the real reasons for what has happened, what has happened, that it has not actually been possible to deal with professional issues to the extent that the former Minister could, according to his professional capacity, be dealt with. They have started to pay for overgrown agricultural land, so that in fact the promotion of processing has increased and the favourable balance of European funds has increased during this period. The Ministry of Agriculture has been the most successful in drawing on European funds among all government departments. However, if we look at what is the success between the new countries in the European Union, 35 per cent of Slovenia is above the 27 per cent average of European funds. When the Minister spoke about these achievements, however, he could say or could tell where his priorities would also be in terms of drawing on European funds, these are those programmes that concern rural development and where, for the time being, the use of funds is at a disadvantage. What is particularly close to me is that the candidate for a minister from the experience he has in education in agriculture, especially in livestock farming, has been able to paint this experience beautifully on what awaits him and what awaits Slovenian agriculture in promoting the education of producers in agriculture. They say that there was a debate, at least this is how some felt that the debate was too brief on the committee. I was on the board. All those of us who wanted to ask questions could be asked. Of course, the question always arises, if we were to be somewhat shorter in our comments and ask more questions, we would probably also get more answers. I am fully satisfied with the answers that the Minister has given me. The outcome of the vote on which it was discussed. It is true that at the candidate's presentation we were sitting 11, 8 told the candidate for the Minister of Support, not just coalition MPs and MPs. That's how support goes over the coalition-opposition barrier. And that is why I am confident that the candidate for Minister will receive support today. It is correct to state that there was no vote against. It would also be difficult to argue, after hearing and after the experiences I have to decide on the opposition, at least the largest party, to express support, even if the time for presentation was even more and the answers were even more numerous and the questions were even more questionable. What, however, I find incorrect to the candidate when we talk about his presentation, to say the same, is that he has not made clear what his priorities are. The strategy was mentioned in the first place, saying that the strategy already has some pre-history, that it was already under two ministers, but that it is a first priority. It seems to me that this objective is properly set, which would, however, be linked to everyone else, but it would also ensure that other points are reached, and these were the eight that he has laid down for us. I am particularly close to that goal when I think from the point of view that the ministry's work is intended for people, especially the effort towards ensuring safe food, understood, of course, by new principles, that it is not only safe food in terms of healthy food, and, as it also says, tasty food, but that it is also safe food, which is linked to self-sustainment. And such views, including in support of home-grown food, including one that has a clearly presented position on genetically modified organisms that have a clear position on the use of plant protection products that understands and supports organic food production and integrated production, and could also mention, these are all things that are close to us as users and as representatives of people's interests and which I think will make it so much easier to support the election of the candidate for minister. Of course, I cannot help but say that the Minister comes from that part of Slovenia, where we are particularly sensitive, if representatives in the most critical places are not our leaves, it would be said. Because I think the Minister knows all agricultural activities in this part of Slovenia very well, and because he also knows the experience of the profession in this part of Slovenia with rich experience, I was, of course, satisfied with the issues that dealt with some specific issues in this part of Slovenia. Again, with the mag. In fact, we will get a new profile for the minister, and after a series of university professors, after a series of other experts in this field, but now someone who has enough experience in other fields has enough energy for new challenges. I wish him a great deal of energy in doing his work, as well as a lot of support, so that everything he pawns can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues, president! The 21st century is a century of interesting movements and surprises. The kind of things are very surprising, and in particular the area that we have the opportunity to hear about today from very different angles and aspects. A candidate for Minister of Magi. I will support the current Jew for a number of reasons, because I think he made it quite clear at his performance and pointed the direction in which he will lead this ministry. Not only to lead one group of people, 1,000 and not to know how many employed people, but simply because it showed and indicated what a vision of agriculture is in Slovenia, agriculture as an economic sector, because we actually talk very little about agriculture as an economic sector. I think that the person who comes from the agrosector, with certain management experiences, probably knows a little more about this than others have had, because it actually comes from practice and I think that those who come from practice can actually figure out where those gaps between theory, between regulations, between legislation and between those things that are feasible and can be arranged and done. As a Member, I am probably interested in a lot of other matters. However, I am particularly interested in this year's biodiversity, how and how the Minister will address this area. I believe that I will follow closely all the measures and procedures that will be taken in this direction. All modern farming methods threaten many animals. And other species and the very diversity of animal species have somehow preserved us and shown how important it is to care for each and every smallest animal in this world as well as in Slovenia. Slovenia, given its relatively well-preserved nature, is so much more secure in this area that we can be an example of the international community in this area. And from that comes one of my questions that I haven't detected. What attitude will the Minister show in the international field in this regime of international trade in endangered species? We know that there has been a great deal of debate and discussion in the last ten or five years. This was encouraged by watching one very interesting documentary film on how and in what way the naturalists went on to study the hunting and extinction of dolphins in Japan and how much they actually had to use their knowledge, corrosive behavior and, last but not least, the persistence to make movements in this area. It would be interesting that Slovenia, as a country that has already done a great deal in this area, in preserving its animal species, but also the international community shows and also shows its attitude to this, also profiles it more in one way and makes it clear. Agriculture is very related to food and nutrition is important for each individual and depends on the quality of life of all of us. We know that so far there have been a lot of action on how to tackle food strategies or the implementation of the food strategy, how much media have done about raising awareness among individuals and individuals. It is likely that this minister will continue this work in this area, and I strongly recommend to him that one carefully designed strategy and resolution, which is quite comprehensive and very difficult, the national food strategy programme, how and how it will implement it also through measures and regulations that the ministry has the capacity to adopt in one way and thus also to guide policy in these areas. There has been a lot of talk about plant health in this Parliament and various legislation, not least about supervision and inspection services. We know how the areas in this work and segment are divided into different ministries. It is likely that it will show all its integral work and how it can also be involved in this area and can also be somewhat more carefully regulated because surveillance is the most important, not only in pesticides and other matters, but also in how and how many unexplored diseases and increasingly allergies affect individuals, their work and their lives. I believe he will succeed in this area. He will surely need a lot of energy, patience and perseverance and assistance not least for everyone in this House. I believe that the power of everyone in this House is such that we will be able to improve this area, which is very difficult, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If we see that none of the ministers, none of the secretaries of state, sit on the premises of the Minister and the President of the Government, this could be a very bad trip for the new minister. I hope that cooperation will be better. As has already been said today, at the presentation of the candidate, the Prime Minister of the Government spent more than 9 minutes explaining the Baricevic affair, which is more or less familiar to every Slovenian and still turns it into a cellophane, does not want to disclose the fact, and he only gave a bad minute to the candidate himself. It is true that today, as well as the Minister himself, I believe that he will receive support, in the future he will not deal with an affair that has shaken Slovenia and this ministry, but that he will deal with the problems of the ministry, which are certainly many. The former Minister, who has also resigned because of this affair and some of the networks of circumstances, has an objective responsibility for those unfortunate, tragic events, but the real culprits, those subjective ones, still sitting on ministerial chairs and here should be made a decisive cut, not that the matter is swept under the rug. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior are in charge here. We all know how all the complications surrounding the return of these dogs and everything connected with them have been happening in the past year. Let us now move on to my concrete reflection on the new candidate for minister. I'm going to congratulate him in the beginning, even though I don't know him, that he mustered up enough courage to decide to take over this demanding resort. Obviously, there was no great demand for this, because otherwise, the President of the Government would not have worked so long to find the right candidate. I find it difficult to judge the gentleman myself, the future minister, because I do not know him, I did not have the opportunity to hear about him in fact in the past, and hardly anything at the time of his presentation, at which I was not present, but from the magnetogram I could only understand a few of the key points that he is also picking up. Undoubtedly, he is able to see that he has recognized or knows the many problems that this ministry has and will have to solve in the future. I also assess that much more needs to be done to preserve agriculture, not just large producers, including medium-sized, small ones. These are those who still contribute significantly to the production and processing of food in Slovenia, especially healthy, quality food. Then I agree that much more needs to be done to simplify the administration's procedures, which this ministry is also carrying out at that time, then to better draw on European funds and some important points, but there will be no time for each of these to be touched. I would say here that it surprises me or I am glad that he has touched and honestly told the candidate in his presentation about the uptake of European funds in this sector. According to some indicators, we are the most successful country of accession, as much as 35% of the funds we have been able to drain, but it is right to know that this is due mainly to the past government. But in the time of this government, the former minister, a year and a half in key areas, we failed to draw on anything or very little. There was something already said, but, look, these are the areas that would preserve our agriculture, small agriculture, our village, solve the problems brought by drought, the problems brought by many weather inconveniences. Let me just give you a few details presented by the minister so that no one can say that these are the data she has drawn to the opposition's plan, or the SDS. We have €30 million earmarked for the reconstruction and development of the village, and we have absorbed only a million at this time. In order to irrigate 26 million Euros, which have been drained by zero euro, what problems the drought has brought us. Maintaining and improving the rural heritage of 14 million assets at our disposal, we have absorbed 0.25 million. Not to talk about work training. We know that agriculture also requires more and more knowledge, more skills, and it would be good for our farmers, especially those who will do so in the future, to learn new skills, new skills. Europe provides funds for this, and we do not know how to make use of them. The candidate identified or detected several important areas. He also stated that we do not have a strategy, which I agree with myself. However, he did not state, and there is no way for him to object to this, no concrete proposals on how he will deal with it. I believe he doesn't know the source. He wasn't into politics. I hope that, rather than within three months, he will be able to come to the National Assembly with some concrete proposals, so that we can begin to resolve this area. The candidate has inherited a bad legacy, and that certainly holds true. He'll have a lot of problems to face in the future. Let me point out a few key points. I won't be all of them, at least one thing that I expect to pay special attention to. Before that - I hope that Mr candidate, future minister - will give him advice that applies not only to him but also to other departments. Let him be aware from the outset that he runs the ministry, as he thinks he is right, and that the ministry or these thousands of employees will not lead him, which has happened many times. That's the key, and that's the first day of the first week. The bureaucracy of this ministry also often inhibits the development of municipalities, hinders the development of the whole of Slovenia. Bureaucrats in Ljubljana in their offices often make bad decisions on the basis of wrong, bad data, do not give consent where it is necessary. Let me state, as has already been said, the adoption of spatial plans. 200 municipalities are waiting for spatial plans, and many times the Ministry of Agriculture has seen this reception here. It is right that agricultural land is preserved, but it should be preserved where it makes sense, where it is truly a quality land. Unfortunately, the data are often such that the land wrongly listed is not the best land and is then protected here in some environments surrounded by industrial settlements, with sleeping settlements, as the most quality agricultural land. I've been dealing with these problems myself. And as I listen to many mayors, this problem is present in many such areas or congregations. I did not notice that the candidate would pay particular attention, but I hope that in the future he will promote healthy food, which is produced and processed in Slovenia. It is important to encourage our children in schools to receive mainly Slovenian food, which is healthy and which ensures that consumers will buy mainly Slovenian food in advance and thus ensure that our farmer is better able to survive. I'm sure it'll be more helpful to him to be able to survive this way than to receive subsidies. And one last area, I won't have any more time, no more mention of beekeeping. Beekeeping is one of the most important areas, for without beekeeping there is no agriculture. In Slovenia, we have witnessed many seas, and the result is irresponsible use of plant protection products. More needs to be done here to protect the bee, to promote beekeeping and to get to the bee law. This is a priority that I hope the future minister will take. I expect that there will be concrete results in Parliament as soon as possible. But I will try to obtain, through the questions of the Member States, information that I will be interested in, as well as people from this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mag. Dejan Židan is no doubt an expert to be trusted by the Ministry for which he has appeared as a candidate. I believe that he will do everything he can to make the food he thinks will be cheaper, that we will have more healthy food, that it will also be cheaper for the consumer. Education for farmers will contribute to this. I believe that he will also pay more attention to small farmers, who are very large in our country and we cannot and must not destroy them if we expect and want to have the countryside inhabited and that we will also maintain hamlets and small farms in the hilly Lower Region and in the Styrian work, Zasavje and so on. I think he knows the management of the department and this can help in solving, as has been said, bad heritage in this area. In doing so, I would just like to say that this heritage has, in fact, been generated since the very beginning of its own state agricultural policy after independence. And in the beginning, it all showed that we were going to put small farms together into big farms. Finally, it turned out that this will not work, that it simply does not go, that Slovenia is not one to develop it in this way and that it will also have to help so-called small farmers. If we do this, namely, for subsidies and grants received by large farmers, I say that they would have a much greater effect if they were given a much larger number of small farmers who could have helped themselves at a time when they were so on the ground. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, I also believe that the funds to be received by farmers will go to the purchase of counter-fowl networks rather than to the compensation for the flow, to provide, for example, irrigation systems, instead of paying for the effects of drought and so on, for crop insurance, instead of compensation, for the cold and so on. If she starts here with common sense, as it is called, to solve the accumulated problems, I believe we will come forward. In doing so, I would like to express my deep confidence in the candidate that he will address these accumulated problems, that the time until the end of his term of office, if any, is too short to be consistently demonstrated, so I firmly believe that his knowledge will come and that his ability to express himself will only occur in the next term, when he will probably be able to repeat this function as a good agricultural minister and then, of course, show what he knows and what can be done in this area. I myself will be very happy and happy to support the candidate for Minister of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I know the candidate for Minister of Agriculture Dejan Židan as a top international agricultural expert, who has also gained a lot of managerial experience because he has been the head of or the head of one of the best companies in Pomurje, namely Panvit, who comes from Pomurje. So everything's not as bad in Pomour as we like to show. We also have top-notch experts in Pomour. Even as we come from the fact that Pomurje is still a grain of Slovenia, I hope to say that it is self-evident that the expert of this stock comes from this region. From his presentations, it was noted that he was particularly sensitive to agricultural policy, that he knew exactly all segments of the small, medium and large farmer and the policy of agricultural cooperatives, he was aware of the policy of the agricultural industry, he was inclined to argue and he wanted to have them in the debate, he was inclined to compromise which, of course, was necessary with the multitude of agricultural interlocutors he would meet with every day. On the basis of his vision of objectives and the agricultural policy he will lead, it will depend to a large extent on what our country will look like. Whether it will be arranged and will provide an opportunity and an opportunity for those who have only a few hectares of land to be able to switch to vegetables, flowers or the like, or whether we will have the landscape abandoned and the population only in cities. But today, when I listen to the presentations, the views and the debates, I am appalled. It was all said negative. How many unresolved problems we have in agriculture, how our agricultural policy has been missed in recent times, how everything is bad and without vision and goals, what everything and who is unhappy with agricultural policy, how we did not in time draw on the resources available in Europe for the development of agriculture, how we do not care enough in Slovenia for agriculture, working land, with us 800 square metres per population, in Germany, for example, 2,400. One of the speakers said explicitly: "We have done nothing in the field of agriculture. Everything's bad, and we didn't have any goals. Where are they, and what have previous governments done in this area? Where are they and what have the customers done, in which the domains have been agricultural resources all the time?" Dear Minister, if he is appointed, he can begin - please listen well - with the vision and goals he mentioned in his presentation, where you have prepared his starting position. Only from there can agricultural policy be seriously built. I wish him plenty of success! I will vote for him because, of course, I trust him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dearly-respected Prime Minister of the Government, who probably listens to us somewhere, hello! Much has already been said today about why we are talking about the new agricultural minister, why the previous agricultural minister has resigned. However, in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are pleased that today's speech by the Prime Minister mentioned the efforts of our opposition party to call on the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister from 3 June 2009, that the process of returning the Bulmastifs has been disputed by the Minister of Agriculture, that only the interests of the owner and not the public interest have been pursued in the process, which is the safety of life and the inviolability of the bodies of people. In the process of return, we felt pressure in particular in our parliamentary group not to deal with the matter. This was especially felt by the minister, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, as well as by the staff of his cabinet and indirectly by many others. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, it pains us that despite the reports of your service on the decommissioning of a "bulmastif file", claims of the former minister's objective and subjective guilt continue to circulate in the public. As a result of this insinuation by the President of the Government that the new Minister of Agriculture will carry out disciplinary sanctions, we are not convinced that you will not burden the new Minister with matters that you have already taken on your shoulders. Your address today sounded like the final address of the Bulmastif affair. However, it is right for the public to know the circumstances of the tragedy, even so that such similar tragedies will never occur again. Dear Prime Minister, we are also concerned that you have had all the papers on your desk a few days after the tragedy, but only in the last days before the decision on the new Minister has you clearly examined and made a decision. It does not seem right to us that you have delayed it for so long by acknowledging the truth about the dispute over the process of returning the Bulmastifs, transferring it to the shoulders of ministerial candidates and leaving a strategically important agricultural ministry so long in disgruntled. The issue of dangerous bullmastif dogs with our disappointment at legal proceedings, and so on, should be a rich experience for the candidate for the new minister, how it is not done, and sometimes it is good to listen to a member of the opposition Slovenian People's Party. The proposed candidate highlighted some of the tasks which are very late in solving the agricultural problem. I am very positive about these tasks. And because I want agriculture and farmers to do well as soon as possible, because I think the candidate is professionally subdued, and because the President of the Government has finally listened to my warning that there should be someone in this government from the Moroccan end, and the candidate for a minister coming from this part of Slovenia, I will also support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately there is none here. The search for the Minister of Agriculture was quite awkward at the time, sometimes quite scandalous, very long as on the market. Individual candidates rejected bids and this meant, or in some way, a pre-disclosure for anyone who accepted this offer as a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture. We have two people in Koroška who would accept every candidacy, even the President of the Government. I'm afraid you didn't get that offer. Today a lot of nice words have been said here about the candidate for Minister of Agriculture. I agree. Personalities, values are also important here. I have recently asked the previous Minister a question that he did not know how to answer, and I have asked him to answer my question in writing. But I never got that written answer. It was a matter of Rožanc or Žačen na Koroškem, in Montenegro, where there are problems in the purchase of forest surfaces, essentially buying up their own forest area. Do not answer the Member's question two, he is an arrogant minister for three months. I hope this doesn't happen now. When I asked the Minister, for example, about Sonja Bukovec's role in the Barsos or trade in Roman spas, I did not get an answer from the Minister, but I received an answer from Mrs Bukovec himself. That's a little weird, of course. It is clear that the area of forestry by this Minister will be again neglected. I reviewed the magnetogram and its initial implementation. Look, the forestry minister, who will also be the Minister of Forestry, not just for agriculture and nutrition, has given the forestry candidate all three clues. First: "The forests in Slovenia represent priceless wealth." That's right. "They also allow us to gain new jobs through third-axle programmes." And: "The forests enable us to respond effectively in the fight against climate change. This is an area that must be further developed." In short, three leads from forestry. No visions, no upgrades, no added value, what Slovenia should do with this extraordinary wealth that we have: we close the mines, we have no oil, we have no gold digger and Slovenia remain forests and, as Mr. Pahor said, he correctly found out that today from Koroška they drive wood across the border, the Austrians process wood and eventually sell it as furniture back to Slovenia. Of course, that's very bad. We have not heard any visions of hill and mountain farms. In the previous mandate, we adopted an amendment to the Forest Act, which allows mountain farmers without forests to rent or rent or concession forest surfaces to survive on these farms. Unfortunately, the previous minister did not adopt the necessary sub-laws in order for this to happen. We don't have a single case where a mountain or mountain farmer without a forest could rent forest areas to survive there, of course, the obstacles are GG. What's going on in GG? These have become Taiwanese companies, where they have a very diversified structure that deals not only with forests, but with construction, filling, water, tourism and the like, and it would be good to get once to the table of concession contracts between the country and those of GG to see what is written there. For Koroška, Dr. Franz Sušnik said many decades ago that the factory emptyes the Koroska farm, the farms on the slopes of Pece and Uršlje. That was true, but today the empty Caroose Farms are inadequate agricultural policy, as the problem is that farmers going into the valley no longer have anything to do in the valley because unemployment is so great. A Korean farmer along the border, and a high mountain farmer, he was always a keeper of the Slovenian Empire. Unfortunately, today we hear nothing about the importance of Slovenian farmer at some partisan fights or other anniversary celebrations. What did the Slovenian farmer mean during the national liberation struggle? And we hear very little about what a Slovenian farmer means today while maintaining a cultural landscape and settlement along the border. I expect the new Minister of Agriculture to deal more with agricultural problems, with agricultural policy problems for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer and less with dogs. If he wants to be a successful minister, he's better off getting advice from Iztok Jarc than from Mr. Pogačnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. One of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party said that the candidate for Minister Dejan Židan had inherited a bad legacy. I could return the question to the Member, and what legacy did our government, which took place in November 2008, inherit? From the 20 years since 1990, this resort has dominated most of this time one of the so - called springs. During all 18 years, ministers and ministers were both members of the Slovenian Christian Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party. So I can say that the legacy in this area was not, I don't know, how rich. It is also true that in these 18 years, Minister Osterc, as well as Minister Pogačnik, was Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, but almost all of these 20 years this resort was under the auspices of Slovenian clients. So much for this legacy and how it was. Then we saw how much concern the Slovenian People's Party had devoted to the Bulmastif affair in this mandate. If this concern of the Slovenian People's Party were truly sincere, it would have started earlier, during the time of their government. As far as I know, that first horrifying attack was on these dogs on March 15, 2006. And in the previous government, almost three years at the Ministry of Minister Lukačičeva and Minister Jarc, and they could have already made this affair more difficult, and the Ministry and the profession were not actually successful and the epilogue has stalled today, and it is true that the President of the Government today has burdened these matters so that he can really devote himself to the sector and agriculture, forestry and nutrition. I am pleased that this area has been taken over by an expert and manager, almost an ideal combination for the leadership of a minister, although I think political experience is also important. I listened to the presentation of the candidate for Minister Dejan Židan when he presented his programme within our party, and I was very surprised at his knowledge and I think he will lead this area well. However, I would appeal to one area which also touches this ministry, although it does not fall within the sole competence of this ministry, but is one of the planners in the room. In fact, we're talking about municipal spatial plans. Of 210 municipalities, there are only 30 municipalities with new municipal spatial plans, and I have found on one of the websites of Slovene municipalities that there are only 7. Let me say that the adoption of the municipal spatial plan in the municipality of Idrija has been taking place for five years, thanks also to the departments of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Culture and others which are necessary in this process and who do not give their opinions and guidelines in a timely manner. So, let's say we missed a whole term of the previous government, four years, and even this year we did not come to the municipal spatial plan, because these procedures are so unreasonablely long-standing, that I would appeal to the Minister of the Jews to address this issue with all my attention, because I can say that the previous governments were not in favour of this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The position of the Slovenian National Party as regards the candidate Mr Mag. Diana jedan already told our president. I would now present to the public my personal opinion on his views. On the committee itself, we have already discussed his views and views, and I have already said that, with regard to those eight points that he has presented, he will, in his own way, dig up the content, which I understand, but I would still say that there are some things that would be good if the candidate were here now to answer, but the matter is that we are now discussing without him, but he will probably listen to our debate and he will take note of it. In his presentation, we missed quite a few comprehensive explanations, points of view. If I can just give them a few. The issue of promoting rural development and ensuring the conditions for maintaining rural agricultural activities has been somewhat said, very cheaply, more or less at the declaration level, the principle level which we have already heard here in the National Assembly in several discussions, the fact that the candidate has not detailed a concrete view of the problem of the candidate, as he sees a solution to the rural problem, although he is very well aware of it, is not the least due to the environment where he has had daily contact with this problem, with farmers in areas where agriculture is actually carried out under very difficult conditions. People live in very difficult situations. Although he touched on social policy in agriculture between his eight points, it seems to me that this is not the right approach. Now it's like putting out a fire. Thus, instead of one specific objective of rural resolution and small farmers in all sectors of agri-food production, we have begun to tackle this problem in the social field. Mr Židan is well aware of the situation there in my area, which is in Goričkem, a hilly area, with difficult conditions of food production, and also livestock farming and well knows the tradition, culture, mentality of those farmers who are in some way offended, offended. They do not want social assistance, as do some groups of the population, who enjoy doing nothing. They're working people, their grandparents, their dads, and they want to work and they want to be paid fair for their work. And they don't want 200 euros a month to survive. So, at this point, I think that any development of a social programme for small farmers is not a solution. Small farmers need a sustainable solution, so to speak, to provide conditions for a person worth living. And let me tell you, Mr Židan sees, in the immediate vicinity of Austria, that even small farmers can survive, of course, with another agricultural policy. There was also little mention of promoting agricultural food processing activities in order to provide conditions for increasing the capacity of self-sustainment. I will not start here now with percentages and data that respected colleagues and colleagues all know well and you have already mentioned them several times today, this is the fall of Slovenian self-sustainment, food, somewhere on average to 40%, I think it is even less, in certain sectors such as greenery and herbs are even below 10%. So here's a bunch of things that one candidate, I don't know, can at least be presented to the committee and the public interested. Furthermore, the regulation of the conditions and conditions of management in the forestry sector, where matters are directly absurd. We boast of the enormous growth of our country with the forest, 70% at the same time importing wood, and Slovenia's wood processing industry is failing. Although the candidate himself admitted that he was not an expert in forestry, forestry, which he was not to blame for. He will probably have to deal with this sector or this area very actively, for here we see our country’s great potential. At the same time, I told him on the board that things were complex. The growth of agricultural areas and, on the other hand, the non-availability of forest capacity are, therefore, matters that must be dealt with thoroughly. It was also under-represented, in the candidate's views, for example, that the issues relating to winemaking, fisheries, fisheries, as well as the fact that I did not see concrete views and views regarding the critical situation in very specific sectors were raised. So, for example, pigs and cattle, and the related milk processing industry. The issue of price policy, buying-in prices, I think, is also open, which is actually the cause of the decline, especially of small agricultural economies. And that's actually the cancer of our agriculture. With regard to the price policy in his presentation, the candidate did not state any of his own views, specific ones; in some ways, he succinctly avoided this topic, because it is very critical and requires clear answers which he cannot now give. I understand that he has a chance, he has a chance, he has 100 days, he deserves every government, every minister, and we will monitor his work in this area as well. There was absolutely nothing concrete about the fact that the rapid red tape in the agricultural ministry, the necessity of human rights rationalisation and the simultaneous increase in the efficiency of those who are expected to remain in public, agricultural public services. My president has already spoken about numbers and other debaters have already mentioned numbers over 1,000 and so on. We all know something's wrong here. It seems to me that in practice, with every government and every new minister, the human resources ministerial sector has only been strengthened, almost no one has left. If this continues, we will have more bureaucrats at the agricultural ministry than farmers. This is an interesting issue in all of this rationalisation, which we are referring to as a girl in all areas and on rationalisation in public administration, in fact we are going in the opposite direction. But I don't want to continue to discuss this, because there's something I'd like to say. Even if he wants to debirocratise these public services, I do not know how he will or would carry out this debirocraticisation of agriculture and the ministry in practice. The Minister's indigence is well known. They go somewhere to the secretaries, to the heads of the Directorates, and down the pyramid, its direct impact ends somewhere. There's one, as I say, a group of bureaucrats who've been sitting there since before. It's a group that's impossible to break. It is said that the Minister will also, I am not saying that he does not have the will to have the right picture of how he will do it in practice, can himself a grave spear. Because if I say it through Hamlet, fighting the sea, it's almost a lost war. So it needs actually broader political support if it wants to build in one of those areas, a prehypically bureaucratic sector, order. Nothing has been said from the standpoint of the Law of the Fund of Agricultural Lands. He succinctly avoided it, a fellow Member has already mentioned it. It's a problem, it's a big problem, because there's been a lot of irregularities here. The cause of this law or fund itself was even police persecution, suspicion, some procedures, listening to the land trade, and I don't know anything else, the accusations of certain political parties who so far had a way of taking over this department and so on and so forth, that they won't go back into those waters to make me look offensive and hate speech to perform because it's not my characteristic, and I don't want that, but sometimes things turn out to be a little critical. Because in this House now it seems that we will have to look after what we say after a new one, because the notions of hate speech, of impatient speech, are very different here. When I came to politics and to Parliament, I imagined this right to critical views, sometimes even sharp ones. I didn't expect us to send kisses here and laugh at each other, because this qualitatively would not mean any progress. So, as I have already said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will decide on our conscience based on how much information someone has about the candidate. I've got some, as I've already said, I'm missing a lot of them and I'll probably be the one--as we'll agree, one "for", one "against", one "will abstain--who will abstain. It means no harm to anyone, no good to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I think Dean Jedhan is a good candidate. Above all, it seems positive to me that a person in such a successful position, in running a successful business, that is, a successful manager, wants to take over the agricultural ministry or accept the challenges currently open to this ministry, and of course there are many. As far as the candidate is concerned, we've heard quite a few readings on his account, which he immediately denied. Now he will also have the opportunity to prove it, that is, when he is chosen, if he is chosen to reject these eyewitnesses and prove that his purpose is completely different. The fact is also this, and it may be positive that the public has been better informed about the problems, that Members and Members will also pay more attention to what is going on with the small farmer, so we will monitor in more detail what measures the new Minister will take in this area and, in this regard, critically assess his work. I think that there is an opportunity for a good minister to prove that his ability, i.e. running a successful company, can also be transferred to the management of a very difficult ministerial base, which in the past has had quite a few problems, particularly in the implementation of agricultural policy. After all, the situation of Slovenian farmers is the result of the history of agricultural policy in Slovenia. Personally, I would like to highlight three key areas, because I think they are very important for people living in rural areas, dealing with agriculture and feeling the consequences very drastic. The first is farming in water protection areas. I come from Ptuj myself, in the area where people grow in water protection areas, they have a huge problem with that. These farmers have put great effort and effort into trying to overcome what is being adopted by the regulation. In a way, we've already wanted to help them with the previous minister, make the regulation a little bit, but that's not enough. If we want to implement a regulation that should not be allowed to grow in water protection areas, we need to present what the alternative with which the Slovenian farmer, who had land in such an area, should also be involved. The state must take this seriously, present alternatives - whether they are compensations or substitutes and, of course, approach the farmer in this way and address this issue. The second, very important thing is, in my opinion, the promotion of Slovenian food not only within our country, i.e. "Buy Slovenian", but also a common single performance in foreign markets. It is very important for us to start promoting the quality of food we process in Slovenia, to also start promoting the quality of producers, that is to say our farmers, and to take part together in domestic and foreign markets. In the past, the problem was that the state of public money could not finance such a law that would allow it, i.e. a common promotion, so much depended on how much the private sector was willing to give or invest in such a story. And it is precisely because I think it is important that the candidate for a minister comes from these waters, that is, from the food industry's production sector, which is aware of how important it is for our country to approach it in this way, to understand the problem better and to help us get to a common performance, a promotion. And third, and also very important, problems with change of destination. While we know that we do not have enough agricultural processing areas, that we can no longer afford to change our destination to building land and to build where we have Class I agricultural land. On the other hand, there is a problem that we have areas where there is a better, greater development, and because we cannot change destination, that is not possible. So that you can think in this direction about what to do, or, of course, compare if you want to change your destination to be able to build there, you need to find suitable replacement land. There are many lands in Slovenia that are growing, and this is due to poor agricultural policy. Whatever the case, this is why we need to approach it so that it does not happen. Some experts believe that there are land that could be reprocessed or exploited into production areas. Of course, it is important for us to consider also the possibility that the right to payment or the right to change destination is paid and that this money is then also intended for the recovery of new land, so that the cultivated land is regulated. So, a lot of challenges for the new minister. I hope that all this effort he has put into the existing situation will be used and put into a new position when he becomes a minister and that the results will be visible soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Respectable. I am truly sorry that the candidate for a minister will not be able to respond to the many things spoken here today, particularly in a constructive spirit. We're very united here today. We are united in the fact that Slovenian agriculture is on the dog and that it needs effective, fast and, of course, decisive measures. We can also be united in sharing responsibilities with one another and others. Of course, a number of advices or views, individual Members' visions, have also been reported today to address this problem, but this will help the candidate for the Bora Minister little. For many of the principles of counsel have been given, but no concrete action has been taken. For if a minister wants to implement an agricultural policy, the arsenal must have concrete measures that take them as soon as possible, the better. Maybe I'll give one myself. I was stabbed by the candidate for Minister's position, which was clearly expressed and which is ambiguous. I'd like him to explain it, because it's very important to my support for him, but he won't be able to. He declared: "I do not agree to do spatial acts on stock. So that agricultural land would just turn into a building to stock." Yes, Your Honor, how do you do spatial acts if it's in stock? The spatial act is some kind of vision of the spatial development of a local community or even a long-term state. Earlier, fellow Members Bevk had said that in the municipality of Idrija, and this is not a lonely case, there have been many such cases, for five years now, the adoption of a spatial act, in almost all municipalities. Yes, how can the space acts take place if it's in stock? How can space planners there predict viable land for a strategic supply? It's no different than the supply. Because when space acts are being prepared, there are no concrete investors, because someone, no one will wait five years for the whole procedure to start building. Investors come after the foundation has been created and therefore the municipal spatial planners do so on stock, and so the position of the minister can be dangerous because it will work as it has done so far, but the priorities are not. Therefore, I specifically suggest that, in cooperation with local communities, the agricultural ministry define those strategic agricultural complexes that are long-termly interesting for agricultural production and that they be classified as sacred and also identify those areas where it is possible, under certain conditions, to interfere with the change of destination and thus allow some development ambitions for local communities. Also, you know that in some congregations there are no trade zones that are empty, and in other congregations there will be none until they are. Yes, Your Honor, the economy does not just look across Slovenia where it could be, but decides on the basis of many other criteria where it will be built and where it will be applied in a business sense. I would expect a little less stiffness, to look at it, because if such stiffness were to be in the future, we would wait a long time and these procedures for adopting the UN will be a long one. We have an economic logistics centre in Posavje, Fenix, where it is envisaged by the State Spatial Plan to build agricultural land on stock so far, and how else. How can one approach a particular investor and offer him land if he does not even know what he can build, under what conditions he can build, and if he can even build? For at a time when this thing is in preparation, when the State Spatial Plan is not adopted, no one can say anything about what and how it will be. Only when such a thing begins to be prepared. Therefore, one such attitude, if I have understood it correctly, I have read it from his statements, can also be dangerous. I hope so, because it comes from economic circles, that he did not literally mean what his statement meant. That's one thing. The other thing is, I am extremely saddened by the consequences of these previous agricultural policies. I'm a winegrower myself. I've got about 1,200 canes. And I must tell you, the left of me, above me, and beneath me, in these years, the reeds cut. And this area will heal uncontrollably. That's one thing. The other thing is, in the valley under my vineyard is Arn's village, it's a recognised fruit garden. When I talk to these people, I've been told that there is only one family, so far there are quite a few who are engaged in fruit farming, only one family, where young people have decided to continue in the agricultural direction. So everyone else simply calculated that in this agriculture, fruit farming is not viable. These are things that are extremely caring and which are the result. This is not a measure that can be changed. This is because people do not see themselves in this business in the future, but not in the young at all. And that, Your Honor, is what you're worried about. If this minister brings a piece of the solution, of course, it will be of great benefit to everyone in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Mr. Marian Krizman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mag. In fact, Židan will still have enough time to implement everything he has envisioned in the agriculture sector, in view of the Ministry of Agriculture, and in my opinion he has set these goals well. It is very important that he has grown in these circles, it is very important that he has worked in a company where he has worked as the president of the administration so far, and that he has somehow built himself up. So great, like someone said before, in agriculture we're going to have a man who can lead as a manager. I think that's the advantage. The fact that he has not been involved in any policy so far can also be an advantage because he is accessible to all and is also unburdened with such matters. I would only point out something if you allow me, which was discussed by the Committee on Agriculture, where Mr Židan presented himself, and allow me only to read this indent, because it is very important for a later clarification of his views on this issue. It is often the case that individual municipalities force the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to change the destination of agricultural land to building land, even though certain areas have not yet been established in the adopted social plans in certain municipalities. This means that the municipalities re-enter the area of agricultural land, although they still have unexploited building plots, which are still agricultural in nature. Such measures would, of course, later ask the applicant the above-mentioned questions, deal with this issue. The question was more than in place, because at the moment this is the most pressing question I believe about agricultural land, because we have managed so many municipalities in this small country to pretend that each municipality is married to its policy, each mayor wants to turn as many of the land as possible into walled land, to apply his policy, of course, even if by force and if not as well as good as it would be for later generations to come. Here's where we're gonna have to make one order, here's where things got a little out of hand. Long-term plans, plans, spatial plans, and so on, have become somehow or more out of the way. In some municipalities, even with mandatory interpretations of the rapid procedure, they change plans and quickly build what is to be built, and this is especially popular before the elections. Just like someone said about the joke, it's like asphalting corn. I'm coming from Slovenian Istria. It used to be, maybe it will be a vegetable garden again. It used to be a vegetable garden for Vienna, for Trieste, today it's for us, for Slovenia. We also have a very large amount of Slovenian Istrian vegetables in Ljubljana. I am sure that the Minister will find his time, I will invite him to come among us to the Slovenian Istria to see how our countryside has progressed in recent years, in my opinion. However, there are still many things to be done, especially in the area of agriculture, because some people have decided to develop more intensively at home, agriculture, others have decided to do much in the field of tourism. And since tourism is slowly moving from concrete hotels to rural areas, where tourists want peace and a pleasant holiday, of course this is also related to food. Here we all see one opportunity for employment, one opportunity to accelerate the development of organic agriculture, and if you also want to develop the landscape and eventually also to develop the infrastructure that is necessary or essential for this type of tourism to develop more rapidly. From this tourism we will have many farmers, we will have a lot of tourist workers, and we will all have a lot of this. I asked a brief question on the occasion of the coming Minister of the Jews, and I was satisfied with his answer, because even in this area, although it is not a very, very large area, he looks very positive and with affection, so I am sure that he will have understanding here too. Otherwise, today, I will gladly vote for Mr Jew, confirm and I am sure that, as I said at the outset, he will show all his qualities and abilities. Mr Žnidaršič also announced his second term, and I hope that he will be truly successful in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, Minister and Minister! So it has been said that we are united, that agriculture today is in very poor condition. What my colleague said before me is a little different from this general position and I am glad that Istria is better. There is certainly no place in Slovenian Gorica and Halozah. The responsibility for agriculture being at such a low level, however, some would like to attribute it to the Slovenian People's Party, which for only eight years managed the agricultural sector in 65 years of history. So, the responsibility for whoever destroyed agriculture is not, there is no responsibility and no one is responsible. Yesterday, the Left Prominence celebrated the 30th anniversary of the death of dictator Josip Broz and 65 years of this, dear colleague and colleague, which killed the Slovenian agriculture with a knife in the back, when the collapse of the Slovenian farmer and Slovenian agriculture began. Just as the land began to be taken from the farmer, and the land that was taken and given to the so - called socialist fists is growing today. And of course, all of this, two ministers of the Slovenian People's Party were unable to correct. Just remember, at the time of the Tandem Smurf – But, when Booth, together with Potočnik, today in Brussels, negotiated for Slovenian agriculture a very good starting point. Not only that, at that time, the European Community's agricultural resources have also been used to the greatest or farthest extent in all areas. It's an exact thing. And, of course, after so many years, you do and you stay alive, and then no one answers and assumes any responsibility, as has already been said today, that we also expect, not only objective but also subjective responsibilities, and if necessary, and there will certainly be criminal charges against those who have done wrong, even in the case of Bulmastifs. Today, someone even told the previous government and former ministers and ministers that it was their fault. However, Lukačičeva and Jarc kept them in shelters, i.e. in custody. They didn't give them back. And the former minister who resigned - this was also stated by the President of the Government, but now other moves have to be made - simply guilty and responsible for allowing these dogs to return. With Mr Pahor, with the President of the Government, it has proved several times that he is firmly behind these ministers first, and then stops or blacklists a firm, but he has previously stood firm for defending his minister or Golobič, who lied to the Slovenian public and so on. Of course, I expect the Minister to do much more in the bureaucracy that has broken down in the last two years so that the ant is no longer coming through the agricultural ministerial door, or at all. Thus, the Agency for Agricultural Markets does not have any invitations to tender which should be or should be tendered for and for which it appears that they are intended for certain individuals. I expect that the Minister, whom we have already warned in the Slovenian People's Party, will also do more, although of course he will come as the director of an economic organisation, that is, which is done under the company law. I believe that he does not know and will be taught how cooperatives or cooperatives work, which are established on the basis of the Cooperatives Act and will, of course, do more, so that the cooperatives can participate in the European calls so that they can participate in other issues of the exit from the crisis. Indeed, the cooperatives were not present, not for State aid, nor for the reduction of working time and so on. In short, all of this will have to be done. Minister, we've been waiting, we've been waiting six months for a village invitation and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u65	The word is "ma'am mag." Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members. Madam Minister, Mr. Minister and the rest of you are present. I'll support the appointment of the Mags. Actual Jewish Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The candidate shall have adequate education and expertise and experience to enable the Ministry to lead appropriately. What he will do for the public good, what is required of every minister, cannot be concluded from the data presented so far. The ministry that the candidate is supposed to take over is relatively difficult. There are many tasks and open problems. Whether the candidate will take part in these tasks will prove to be in the performance of ministerial duties. But I believe it will. The President of the Government has the power to propose, but of course he also bears responsibility for his choice. I have no reason not to believe that the candidate for minister is from a real test. I will therefore support the candidate, and I am confident that today he will receive sufficient support from Members to take over the ministerial function. As with the other ministers we have confirmed, my support is not unconditional this time as well. I expect the candidate to act in the public interest to implement the coalition programme and the Social Democrats' programme in the field of agricultural policy, so I will closely monitor his work. In the past, ministers, after appointment in Parliament, have forgotten their oath to work in the public interest. They began to work for their own benefit, for the benefit of their friends and acquaintances. In the area that I am most closely monitoring, this is in health care, some ministers have even encouraged behaviour contrary to public interest. As a result of the past, some under-responsible ministers are today in Slovenia in so many areas, so often the country does not act as it should. The tasks presented by the candidate as priority are good. It intends to complete the agricultural policy strategy and set priorities. Slovenia needs a strong rural development strategy focusing on a strong rural development strategy that will focus on the development of rural economic activities and the integration of farms into non-agricultural employment opportunities. It intends to reduce administrative barriers to agriculture and food production. He wants to ensure that food production is safe and healthy. To this end, it seeks to ensure an adequate system of traceability and control. He intends to make a plan that will make it easier for smaller food growers to live on. It wants to increase the efficiency of public services in agriculture, increase the level of European money use and improve the rural situation. Better to protect agricultural land, increase self-sustainment and the like. I expect that self-sustainment will be one of Slovenia's strategic goals. I also expect him to monitor the implementation of the recently adopted Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund, as he has promised, in the event that the law does not really protect sufficient public interest, as some believe, but that he will take care of its changes. Nearly half of Slovenia's population lives in rural areas. Farmers, semi-farmers and other rural people expect more incentives and resources, as well as a development strategy that will enable rural development as well as the conservation of agricultural land. Agriculture is increasingly responsible for the protection of the clean environment and for the prudent use of energy. The tasks of the Ministry, for which the candidate is competing, are therefore very responsible. The candidate's promise was great these days, so there's a lot of expectations. I want the candidate to keep his promise. I expect him to perform his ministerial duties well and in accordance with the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting goes to the minister and minister who joined us in the hall! Colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I must say that I will vote in favour of the election of Mr Magi. Jewish Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the Republic of Slovenia. Through my presentation of the views of the Group, I have raised a number of questions that I would like to resolve, so I will not repeat them, but I have three or four additional questions or I would like to draw attention to them. I would like to say that agriculture is a very important economic sector for me. I've been doing this activity myself, and I know it's hard, garage work. In all the agricultural sectors, the agro-economists calculated the loss, not just last year, even in the preceding year, so that the new minister will have a lot of work to do. Farmers are literally waiting for as many things to change in this area as possible. In presenting the views of our Group, I have mentioned that a strategy needs to be drawn up; more or less, we are all talking about it. We need to make it clear whether we want 200 farms or farms in Slovenia, or whether we want small farms to be properly and adequately managed. Here I would like to point out that if the strategy is to have 200 farms or 200 farms in Slovenia, then we can have that good land processed and elsewhere Slovenia will grow. If we think that we will deal with this issue in a cheaper way, we may be wrong about the incursion of Slovenia, perhaps with some municipal companies, then ten times the subsidy will not be sufficient. The next question that I have already mentioned in Parliament or in this Chamber is related to the wine law. In 2006, we passed or adopted some of the wine laws that you were in that hall at the time. 14 wine-growing areas were their own time. The new law created nine wine-growing environments, including seven former ones in the ninth century. Among them was the wine-growing environment of the Ljutomersko-Ormoško Mountains. Vinegrowers want their vineyards back, or vine growers want a new vineyard with the name Jerusalem’s wine-growing environment. I expect the new minister to listen to this. A very interesting question and point of view, I am sure, is also on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. From this context, it could be quickly assessed whether it supports family farms or, of course, it is thinking about shutting down this fund in the future, since it has performed most of its functions. Of course, it is also very important to see whether the building land will actually become owned or managed by the congregations. I won't be able to talk about the Parliamentary House anymore. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. He's not here. Mr. Matevž Frangež - he is not here either. Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Nice greetings from my colleague and colleagues, Minister and Minister. It is nice that after two hours the government is present, because I was convinced that the candidate for a minister already has no backstopping and support in the government, and it seems to me that after this agony, when a month and a half led the party was unable to find a candidate for a minister that was actually found in Prekmurje, not Prekmurc, our neighbour, Štajerec, who will be the scapegoat of the coalition agricultural policy. I am almost certain that after two years they will blame him for an even bigger crisis, even worse the position of a farmer, because the Slovenian farmer literally dies and you force him to make reservations like the Indians in America. This does not reduce the quality of the new minister. All I am trying to do is plead for my independence from the coalition policy in the agricultural field and for my independence from bureaucracy within the agricultural ministry. For under the ministers of the People's Party and beneath us they set up forest economies and agrocombinates and food and trade. That's not how red tape worked for a farmer and doesn't want to work for a farmer. They've been ministers of internal bureaucracy so far. That's why there's so much going on in agriculture. See, at the presentation, Mr Minister stressed the importance of polling, European - that 95% of Slovenians and 90% of Europeans believe agriculture is important and that it affects their lives and that is a fact. Unfortunately, for two years, this coalition has been ruled by the government and for this coalition and agriculture, and especially by the farmer of Slovenia, it is not important because in these two years farmers have come into such a miserable economic situation. Last year, crop prices dropped by 100%. The apple table was half the price. Farmers did not cover any costs. With loss! It's the same with wheat. It's the same with cattle. Don't tell me I'm talking to you. When I was a young engineer, I spent two years sorting 4,000 broilers for Ptuj poultry for extra income. At that time, something was earned there, and today those tycoons are buying the evening and so on. Mr President of the Government, in an explanation where he did not deal with the agricultural sector, found that the interest of the person was in the interest of the animals. But he found out by the time he was two months late. This was clear to anyone about the bulmastif when the affair occurred when we filed the interpolation. That's when Mr. Pahor didn't find out. And so for this coalition there is also no interest of the farmer in the interests of the tycoons and those in the processing industry and trade. This coalition and the ideology of this coalition are such that so far it has been necessary to exhaust the farmer. She followed the Roman rule on how to save power: people bread and games. Farmers must produce bread almost free, otherwise they are rich in processing and merchants, but food is still cheap. In these times, when the country is in debt to disability, I see in today's newspapers that Mayor Jankovic is throwing a luxury celebration on Saturday. The most expensive in 30 years for which a great deal of money will be spent! Because you're buying elections, buying a referendum, ladies and gentlemen. Now you can see why you gave Jankovic such a law to power directly from the budget. This luxury, these games are paid by people, budget and taxpayers. Such a grand celebration in this time of crisis! Yeah, where we came from! And because of this, the Minister will not be able to work, because what is in the budget, what comes from Europe, will be taken and brought into these waters so that they can organize the games and farmers will die and perish. These games, this rule of "crew and games", were typical of the last decadent period of ancient Rome. And unfortunately, we're in this parallel that you're going to waste the country with this decadence, with this waste at the expense of farmers and workers' stings. With regard to the agricultural sector, Mr Pahor asked himself earlier why there is no added value in wood, since we are the third-largest forest country in Europe. Is that a question to be asked? This is due to a 65-year-old policy in agriculture where the farmer was pushed in the previous system and the forest economy is exposed to the Udba. The highest representatives of the Udba were constantly at the top. And there was no natural accumulation. Farmers, foresters were working hard, they got nothing. Otherwise the situation would be the same as in Austria, they would build a manufacturing industry on sound foundations, and they would produce wood at home and be added value here, and that would be a reserve of this country. This is your fault, gentlemen, and this is a catastrophic situation that we inherited, and unfortunately it is not possible for both the agricultural ministry and the economics of this bureaucracy, which has been paid through such a policy, to change nothing. I therefore call on the Minister to change the way people who have worked for such a policy have been shaken, that added value has gone elsewhere. Mr candidate spoke about the need to increase the efficiency of public services in agriculture. I agree with that. Only the advisory services have become to the farmer of exploitation. They are now working for the added money, for the extra payment, for public funds projects in agriculture. No, it's their job and farmers shouldn't have to pay! Then they don't get it because they're going mostly to those tycoons in agriculture. A real minister, also a candidate, has to overcome the separation between primary production and the food production industry. Where does he see this divorce? Unfortunately, there has been no divorce so far, but it needs to be established. For the primary production, the farmers were under the cartel, the authority of production and trade. However, no one has taken account in this authority of the farmer, and this separation is a need to establish and primary production is the added value to be respected, which is important for 95% of Slovenians and 90% of Europeans. And respect what people instinctively feel is that it is the Slovenian farmer who has preserved the Slovenia which has also allowed us to survive as a nation at this time and you have no right to destroy it at this time. You don't. I therefore once again call on the candidate to give priority to the farmer to the tycoons who have left the forest holdings and the agrocombinants who today buy newspaper companies, banks and I do not know what. How'd they get the accumulation? It's from the dwarf farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Mr Vito Rozjej has the word - he is not there. Mr. Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u72	It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. I will support Minister Dejan Židan's candidacy, but, of course, as well as other speakers, I will raise certain questions, dilemmas. Many of these have already been answered by the distinguished candidate for Minister in previous discussions and discussions on the home committee. Many interlocutors highlighted the problem of self-sustainment, how to protect the Slovenian farmer. At this point, however, any minister faces a very difficult and complex work: protecting our agricultural products and, of course, indirectly the Slovenian farmer. No minister can definitively resolve this issue. Not because it's complicated because we're part of a global trading organisation that sets the rules of the game. These rules of the game are, in my opinion, not only mine, but also some economists, written to protect the interests of the capital, the multinational, in this field of food production. In Slovenia today we are meeting with imports of food actually produced at dumped prices, not only because of subsidies, but also because we have subsidies, especially because these producers use methods and techniques to get as low a price as possible. Even on the other side of the world, the product coming to Slovenia is cheaper than the product of a Slovenian farmer. How is that possible? Perhaps it is only in this way that the resources of the underdeveloped countries are being used, that the labour force is not being paid and, of course, we cannot compete under such conditions. No one can change these rules like some kind of, I could say, legal unfair competition. And if this is not resolved at global level, even if I do not know what measures of the home countries, this matter cannot change. However, it is important to be loud and also to note and be loud about these unfair situations in international trade. Self-sustainment. There was much to be said about this. How will we do this to make Slovenia more independent of international exchange, but this problem will be particularly pressing if we ever get close to the Greek script and hope that we will never be able to do so. Then the problem of self - care becomes vital to our people. We also hear that the burning problem in Slovenia is the construction of agricultural land, and several times the problem is, of course, the cultivation of processing areas, which will also require policy and resources to preserve these agricultural areas and forests. We have heard that the future minister, if elected, is likely to be a good expert in agricultural policy and in particular in the processing industry. As my colleagues have warned me, I do not know if the information is correct, is the head, the director of the Panvita processing industry management, if any, but should also point to a certain conflict of interest. I would be more pleased if I were the director of some agricultural cooperative, which would make it easier to listen to the interests of producers. These producers, even though some of us know each other, also get some resources from a country that does not belong to them, but that is underfed financially, do not get what they invest in their work, especially small farmers or farmers in peripheral areas. In short, there is always a conflict of interest and I want the future minister to really focus on primary production, i.e. people, the direct ones, the first article in the chain. About the affair that was initially a lot of talk. I don't think he's gonna be dealing with what the former minister might have done. That's why I don't want to come forward either, because it's not his area, it's a matter of the Justice Minister, the Investigative and Supervisory Institutions. However, I was among those who were skeptical that everything had been properly carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture in the Bulmastif affair. Fourteen days ago, there was complete confidence in the previous minister that everything was fine. When I warned myself a few times, I received even certain criticisms, and that is what is being said today. Well, I hope it's not because someone doesn't get ahead of themselves and expose these things, but because things are really going to come out, and that nothing is going to go under the carpet, as they say. I'm glad things have happened, things are getting epilogues, but if it's not some sort of blind maneuver again, things are actually going to shut up and shut up. As a matter of fact, I wouldn't talk about it. I want to give the future minister a very happy hand and, as it is said, listen mainly to those who are the first member of the agricultural production chain.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Thank you for the word, Mr President. The Minister, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, is warmly welcomed. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has actually been able to find, convince, and win over, after two months, the Minister of Agriculture. I am even more pleased that in fact he is a minister who comes from Styria, who is not a person of the minister who would teach in colleges, like everyone else, and that he actually comes out of practice and that he will be able to regulate between farmers, large farmers and small farmers. In fact, he will be able to regulate agricultural operators and balance them properly with the Slovenian Agriculture Ministry. We are all aware that after 2013, there will be no more subsidies in agriculture. I hope that also the candidate for a minister, Mr Židan, is thinking about what his vision for farmers, for producers of our lives, will be and what will then be, for food producers, which we all need from day to day. It is true that at present a lot of food is imported from cheaper production, from other countries and that in fact Slovenian farmers eat the song very thinly. But it is true that it must not forget farmers, farmers who are in the minority, in smaller sizes of squares or hectares. Such farmers are mainly in the Slovenian Gorica and Haloza. You need to know that in last year's agricultural year, the price of the product fell to 100%, the prices of the final consumers, in shops, remained the same. I hope that the candidate for a minister, Mr Židan, will be able to step on the fingers of those who are among the producers, the farmer and the final consumer, who are wholesalers and cooperatives. For they are the only factor that can appreciate the lives of us, citizens and citizens. Because these are the ones who can replace the subsidies after 2013. I would be very happy if the Grosses actually subsidized agriculture, because they have, believe me, more than 30 percent of the margin, and we pay citizens and citizens. We must not forget here, once again, the small farmer, the small farmer, the small person who owns a small farm. This part of Slovenia must also be processed. And believe me, these farms are also quite a number. Remember when we talked about pensions, even these farmers are many, over 2,800, who have pensions of 220 euros. And if we take their subsidies after 2013 - how will these people live? That is why it is important when Mr Juden becomes Minister so that he does not forget these people. A vision of the future is also very important by 2013, because we need to be aware that we need to prepare these small farms to live, produce without subsidies, because that will be no more - and what will we do then? At that time we will have abandoned fields, abandoned meadows, damaged forests, and then added values will be even less than they are currently in agriculture. I believe that he will listen to all farmers, all food producers, to be able to motivate, to stimulate these farms, which are small farms, not only large, and that he will be able to find a common consensus with all farmers in Slovenia. I hope he will be able to listen to that part of "Slovenia beyond the Trojans" as we like to say, "Stajerski", and Koroška, White Krajina and Prekmurje, that he will also be able to listen. If there is no even distribution of funds throughout Slovenia, it will also give a great voice to the establishment of the autonomous province of Styria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister and Minister. After a long time, we have reached a suitable candidate for the Minister of Agriculture. This time has certainly been lost for agriculture, because agriculture is in a significant crisis, either as a result of the general economic crisis or as a result of the crisis of previous times, somehow inherited from the previous country. We certainly wish the new Minister a lot of work success. He somehow pointed out his working zeal at the hearing on the Committee on Agriculture, because he was preparing a very limited time, he could not say everything as we expected. Let us give time and in these two years following, the minister certainly has the opportunity to prove himself. However, I cannot help but say that this process of appointing a minister has dragged on for so long. In some ways, it could be said that during this period the tendering conditions for the Ministry have changed because some candidates have already rejected the offer in the preceding period, namely the tendering conditions in the sense that the predecessor’s character, namely former Minister Pogačnik, should certainly be preserved. And so one of them, among other things, writes from the candidates for the minister. "Your unequivocal desire to preserve Dr. Pogačnik's integrity in the Bulmastif case," and then so on "I reject as a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture." So there were no reasons that they were related to some of our colleagues, because it would not bother anyone if he was an expert, he was an expert and should prove himself. But when the Prime Minister himself later admitted Pogačnik's guilt, the situation changed so much that we finally got the candidate. Well, I can certainly express a profound protest that because of some past events that need to be placed under the carpet in some way, the whole area suffers. I am certainly expressing a great protest about today's presentation of the candidate by the President of the Government, colleagues have already said, those who evaluated the time, 9 minutes just about the previous minister and I could not shake the impression that the aim of the Prime Minister today was to wash the previous Minister and so quickly say that we now have a candidate to confirm. And there's something else I've already pointed out or asked at the hearing on the Agriculture Committee. An example of price building has been drawn for a long time. This is a European problem, but it is even more potential in Slovenia. Let me explain what this is all about. In the chain, the farmer, the processor, the shop, the buyer, the shop cuts itself an unreasonablely large share primarily at the expense of the farmer, i.e. the farmer, and at the expense of the buyer. The farmer gets too little and the buyer pays too much, the food-processing plant just comes from day to day and trade with too high margins has a negative impact on the market. Why is this Slovenia overpowered? Because despite the decline in purchasing power, trade centres are still being built, and perhaps as in socialism, the popular "electricity in each of you" will now be the word "supermarket in each of you". And of course, because it costs to build a supermarket, then it's not enough customers, and all the infrastructure in the parking lot and so on, they all kind of compensate for these differences between the purchase price and the sale price of food. In addition, trade dictates the pace in this chain also because it buys some goods with large stock, then sell quickly, which remains to be discarded. This is how some crops say that up to 20% of the products are destroyed. And then what's the point of a subsidy to end up in a dump over the product? I personally claim that the winner, the real recipient of the subsidy, is a trade. Because a farmer without a subsidy cannot live because trade and the entire chain have pushed him so far that he cannot survive without a subsidy. What's gonna happen after 2013, I don't know. In any case, I expect the Minister to be more protective of trade marks or domestic production, as this would raise interest in customers and increase the share of self-sustainment, which in some areas is already at an alarming low level, worrying about a low percentage. That the average Slovenian farm measures 6 and a half hectares, it is not necessarily an obstacle if something else is produced on these six hectares. It can't be six hectares of milk-meat production, but it can be veggie farming, it can be small animals. Here he waits for the minister to direct the conversion of farms and additional activities to farms, and then the six-and-a-half-a-half-a-haer farm will survive, although of course it is also necessary to support the general trend that has been going on for several years with regard to the abandonment of small farms, so that the farms can join together when the larger farmer buys it back. Agriculture is certainly an important sector. Not so much after income, because there is very little contribution to the budget, it takes more out of it than inside it does, at least in the European case. 3% of the European population spends 40% of the European budget and then returns only 15%. It's a very good economy. But there is something that all European countries are aware of: agriculture takes care of a regulated, populated landscape. If they don't produce something economic there, the landscape is arranged. It is not susceptible to growth, watercourses are regulated, and villains are all the things farmers have to deal with in their work. Finally, I would like to stress once again that I wish the Minister the best possible work, that sufficient support should be given to him by the coalition, because it is her job if she has decided to rule. I will probably abstain from voting on my own, as on the committee. But it is not said that I do not want to cooperate well with the new minister. But I have a little fear, and I hope I won't be as disappointed as I was with the previous one. After my initial admission to the Ministry, the presentation of work and so on and so on, I was more disappointed every day in two years, and in particular the reaction to the events to the ceremony, i.e. February 2nd. That twirl has crossed the line of every good taste. But don't make this a bad trip to a new minister who's got a big job ahead of him. His success can be the joy and satisfaction of our farmers, as well as of all of us. His good work. It will not be easy to reflect, the consequences will be felt by all of us, and they can have a beneficial effect on all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the Minister and the ministers. Really interesting afternoon in Parliament, which confirms the thesis that in Slovenia we all understand football, politics and agriculture. I have heard many interesting discussions today. Some, I have to say, I'm admiring it. I will touch those with a positive message, which to a young person who has knowledge, desire, will, and above all courage and determination to take a journey, want all the good, congratulations, help and cooperate with. Of course, there was no shortage of bad guys who wanted to, as I had heard many times that the subsidies after 2013. For God's sake, people, why, because there is no such thing as easy survival of European agriculture and land management without subsidies! In Slovenian farms, many, especially in those areas with more difficult production conditions, account for more than 50% of income. I am also pleased that the Minister who said good-bye has also made a major contribution to making the subsidy campaigns better, more current, in the years when the systems were being distributed computer and other. Today we don't hear anything about it anymore because it's all running, it's all working. On 15 May, the campaign will be concluded, and somewhere between 70 and 75,000 beneficiaries of these subsidies will submit applications and will also receive a well-deserved and necessary payment. Why? Because European society, as well as Slovenia, recognises these people as performing for the environment, for the country extremely needed, important work and rewards them for it. The second chapter is the price of agricultural crops. Today, those who would like to communicate one, and in practice still buy cheap Spanish, Italian and other overseas products that have been defended by immature, green, chemical and technology have survived a few days, or even a few weeks, to Slovenian shelves, they may look beautiful and good in color and eyes, and that is all. All of these have the opportunity to provide healthy, quality Slovenian food to domestic, Slovenian producers, and these are enough, we just don't want to give them fair prices. Meat from mountain mountains is sold at a large center at the same price as Argentine or other cattle. And it is up to us consumers to appreciate their work, to appreciate the importance of quality food for our health and condition, and that we are willing to deduct more for quality Slovenian products. And that's what this is all about. We hear many times that food is expensive, and let us ask ourselves if it is true. I will repeat the sentence: ten eggs, a litre of milk and a kilogram of potatoes can be obtained at the price of one beer in one of the neighbouring parliamentary venues. It survives, but the bars are still full, the rounds fall one by one, and no one says it's expensive. But when it comes to milk, when it comes to eggs or agricultural crops, it is all too expensive - because there is too little knowledge and knowledge of what it takes to have and invest in something growing after planting crops in autumn. There are quite a few problems in this area. I will be happy to support him myself and help him in his work as a Member. However, I would also like to draw attention to the important area of insurance. Agriculture is carrying out a risky activity that is increasingly less profitable in the light of climate change and exceptional weather events. And that's where the insurance companies have to come in. Of course, it is not the task of insurance companies to cover the sector and collect profits where profits cannot be missed, these are car and other compulsory insurance. The benefit from insurance must be covered and allocated as a comprehensive project also in the area of agricultural insurance. The next important area I would like to draw attention to is wood and Slovenian forests. Here I would like to draw attention to the almost warm brochure I am showing you, which is entitled "Let's Control Climate Change, Use Wood". An exceptional work, which was translated from the European space into Slovenian space and distributed free of charge in the load of 6,000 copies. The credit for funding is due to Mr Jelk Kacin, the European Member of Parliament, who has made it possible to translate. It's to figure out what wood can do and what it means. Take a look at Slovenian ads, Honka houses, Scandinavian pine trees, Siberian cedars, African tics and more. In our forests, a step away from Parliament, and in Tivoli on Rožnik, of course, there is a high quality wood growing, only it needs to be given more work, more energy to invest in the wood production industry and then, of course, it will be easier and better. There are also many Members and Members who can do so. Look at the legislation. Each small mountain village had its own saw, its own mill, and its supply of sand and construction materials. Where did we come today? These facilities are impossible to place in a space because they are increasingly protected in this system than is a protected person. There's another challenge. Of course, since we have talked a lot about animals today, and especially about bad nature, I would also like to point out that good. Slovenian livestock farming has a remarkable animal fund in many areas, it has a good professional, agricultural, livestock and veterinary background, from which, at least after basic education, the candidate comes. This must be appreciated, respected and developed, and an appropriate relationship between animals should be cultivated. Animals are rarely guilty of much and it is our fault, the owners. And these stories are mainly about more knowledge, more education, responsible ownership, and when systems fail, control too. I excited a part of the Slovenian public, including the professional, with the information that almost every third of Slovenia's quadruple, especially in urban centres, is unregistered, unvaccinated, inspections are insufficient, because inspectors are simply under-inspectors and therefore the supervisory function needs to be expanded, even in the direction of the red tape and possibly the interstate inspectors. Time is running out, and I wish the Minister well, and congratulations on the brave decision and thanks. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Please, procedurally, Mr. Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Thank you, sir, the President. The minister's candidate is there if he's not locked in the room, he's got so many instructions today that he's escaped us. I suggest we stop giving him advice. For five hours we've only been given instructions on what to do, and I think it's irrelevant to discuss it. I will support him, and I hope he will accept this initiative of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u81	I'm afraid I'm going to have to reject your proposal. Actually, there's only one debater left. But I have to say from my experience that these advices are still nothing. What else will follow him when he's elected! Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Thanks for the heads-up. I didn't hear the call to have a word. In today's day, when we are really trying to get to the moment when the National Assembly will also decide to accept the proposal of the President of the Government and to appoint a mag. On the other hand, dejana jedan, as the new agricultural minister, would still be worth noting some of the facts, as well as some of the distorted ones that we have been able to hear again here today. It should be possible only on this observation given by the SDS Group to the candidate if it would be very bad if the municipalities were preparing spatial acts in a way that would define land for construction on stock. The candidate provided an answer to a question, or somehow a notice, in a debate on the Committee on Agriculture that a lot of the surfaces of such areas have been defined for 10, 20 years and nothing has happened on these surfaces in these 20 years. It is about making more careful use of all the surfaces we have, and in the new spatial acts this will also have to be taken into account. I would like to draw my attention to the fact that in Parliament we have adopted a decree on a spatial development strategy when a law on space regulation has been adopted, and this paper on a spatial development strategy also sets out which are the best agricultural land, which are those lands which have limited farming opportunities and, of course, may also be multi-purpose land use. See, it is the government in the previous mandate that proposes to amend this law and proposes a law on the regulation of space which provides for the abolition of the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? I'm asking those of you who made that decision at the time. Why has this spatial development strategy been abolished by the Spatial Planning Act? Only because this has actually released interference in all lands without any controlled way, and only so that spatial acts can be prepared in a way that no one actually protected with any legal basis of any surface or, above all, agricultural surfaces. And this has also greatly encouraged this and is encouraging that today the municipalities are planning on areas that would otherwise not have been intended to respect and try to exercise in their respective spheres of responsibility by individual ministries and governments. Why, then, did agricultural land change to such an extent? Why did so much agricultural land - Mr Jerovšek, who spoke about how everything was wrong 65 years ago, but why did so many agricultural land that was protected in those 65 years turn into a wally, so that it was still agricultural, but no one was farming on them? Why has the denationalisation process brought a huge amount of agricultural land back to those who are not engaged in agriculture at all? Why? These are the issues that are now topical so that we can talk about whether we will have farms and family farms in Slovenia, which will have enough area available. It is very difficult, in fact, when we allocate agricultural land to those who do not process it at all or deal with it. And if there was also a comparison of Mr Jerovsk, how good was it when the kingdom was once in this territory, but ask the people, the petty taxes were then paid by the farmers, and you will find that they were extremely burdened. Now I also ask the previous political authority why small farmers have been taxed, why have agricultural land owners not receiving subsidies for these lands been taxed, and why do they still have to write complaints today that this tax is not charged to them? And why did this reduce the tax burden? Those who receive EUR 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 000 subsidies have been reduced tax burdens, those who have not received any subsidies have been taxed! Why? These are the questions I'd like someone to answer to today. In particular, Mr Jerovšek has talked a lot about how everything is wrong and how the candidate should not listen to the current current coalition in the solutions. The solutions that we have go in the direction of maintaining the rural settlement and, above all, making it planned and planned, not scrupulous. And these are important differences between this policy, which we have been able to follow up to this day or until the previous mandate and which we want to change. As regards the payments themselves, the direct payments received by farmers for the activity they are carrying out. In the previous term, they waited four years to receive payment for something that belonged to them after at least two years - if we comply with European legislation. Why did they wait four years? Let this answer be given to me by Jerovšek, and then it will be understood whether today’s minister should listen to his former authority or to that. A very simple answer, very clear, which people also know and feel in everyday life! This is the only answer I would like to have, because payments in this mandate run beyond a substantial short period of time and run in a way that actually allows farmers to get money when they need it most. And these are the measures that will also have to be implemented and implemented in the future. Last but not least, even when we considered the Law on the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund, which was re- tabled by the People's Party, it was stated in the explanatory memorandum that, also because of the adoption of the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund, which allows for greater control of the Government, which allows for greater control of the Court of Auditors and all the bodies that monitor the operation of this Fund, it wants to prevent this. And that was also one of those important reasons why Minister Pogačnik had to resign. So we want to establish control over the sale of agricultural land and we want to set up a land agricultural policy that will, above all, allow for the development of agriculture. These are the measures we have already taken in this mandate. We are still waiting for the agricultural land law and we will also be able to face it - whether capital interest prevails or the interest in agricultural development prevails. All of these are activities that arise or have already arisen in this mandate and are truly essential for the further development of agriculture. And I'm sure he'll be a magician. Dejan Židan continued this path, not least because you certainly do not agree that we do not have agricultural companies in Slovenia. The right has been working ever since independence to destroy agricultural companies in Slovenia. Please, why?Oh, my God! The most educated people in the field of agriculture are in these companies and this was meant to be destroyed, but despite the fact that 30,000 people were also employed in these companies - it was not important just to divide the land, even those not engaged in agriculture, and that was the goal. We do not really approve of all these decisions, we want to prevent them and, of course, we also want to develop agricultural enterprises, small agricultural economies and also those farms that can already survive due to sufficient economic activity and sufficiently large areas on the market, which is, of course, inexhaustible. And all of this, I am sure, will also be achieved to a large extent in this mandate, and that is why we will also support the new proposed candidate for minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I don't see any incentive for that. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The name of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food is mag. Diane Jedhan. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing he's a mag. Dejan Židan is appointed Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Let's wait for the new minister to come to the hall. [[...]] I congratulate the Minister on his appointment and wish him a successful discharge of his duties. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u84	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Does the minister want to speak in front of the National Assembly? Please, Minister, for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Dear Members and Members. Thank you for the support I received today. I do not only understand this support as a personal support, but in particular to the sector which produces in the production of the chain agriculture, small farm, medium farm, large farm, agricultural holdings and agro-food industry, which in Slovenia produces food that we can be proud of. This food is safe, healthy, above average quality, delicious and has a tradition. As Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I will take the view that anyone who operates in this chain or works on a farm or as a worker in the agro-food industry will be proud to be engaged in an activity that is strategically important for Slovenia as well as for the whole of Europe. This activity, too, is food production, which includes agriculture and production and processing, is currently in crisis. With the collective strength of all the participants - as well as, I am counting on the advice I will receive from the National Assembly - I will take this advice very seriously in my work - I believe that we will also overcome this crisis in a way that will make food production in Slovenia even more important over time than it is now. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-05-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the Assembly. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
