ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Miran Potč, mag. Stefan Tisel, France Tsukati from 16.30 to 18.30 and Matjaž Zanoškar. I invited representatives of the Council of State to the 2nd item of the agenda, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, and the candidate of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Dejana Jedhan to the 3rd item of the agenda, as well as representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 26 April 2010. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed, as part of the material on the proposal for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, that the Council extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. You received the proposal by letter of 29. 4. 2010 Does the representative of the Government want to speak as a proponent of enlargement? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[It's 70 votes.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The electoral extension will be considered as the 3rd item of the agenda on Wednesday 5 May 2010. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have adopted by reference, and a follow-up. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[It was 73 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. I'm moving on to one. Period of the day - This is on the eve of a proposal for a decree on the distribution of the legislative referendum on the law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a decree was submitted by a group of 86 Members and Members, with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Bojan Kontić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, ministers, secretary-general, colleagues and colleagues. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires the National Assembly to sign a legislative referendum at the request of at least a third of its Members. The National Assembly is tied to the outcome of the referendum. Article 25 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative provides that one year after the decision of the referendum has been announced, the National Assembly shall not adopt a law that is substantively contrary to the decision of the electorate. Under the request for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 86 signatures are signed by Members and Members. In this way, the conditions for the call for a referendum are more than met. In this way, the signatories and the signatories agree with the President and the Presidents of the parliamentary parties who have unanimously decided to call a legislative referendum in the event of the adoption of the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement in the National Assembly. On the basis of this agreement, the signatories and the signatories to the request for a consultative referendum have withdrawn from this requirement. Such a high level of consensus reached in the National Assembly certainly expresses the awareness of the importance of the decision taken by the National Assembly at the time of the approval of the Act. Despite the substantive differences, even with regard to the usefulness and harmfulness of this agreement, we are united at least in the need for a final decision to be taken by the electorate and the electorate. Although some feel that this is a transfer of responsibility to people, they have contributed signatures under the call for a referendum. We also contributed to the signatures by those who believe that we have already fulfilled our responsibility in favour of Slovenia by voting on the agreement signed by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor. The arguments "for" convinced us, and with the request for a referendum we do not want to give up responsibility and place it on people's shoulders. Those of us who voted in favour, we have therefore shown our decision very clearly and we expect the people at the referendum to attach themselves to us. We support the Arbitration Agreement Act, which we agree with the agreement, because we do not renounce sovereignty or autonomy in any way. The rights to lay down the rules of the game are not passed on to the third, but we have reserved this right for ourselves and have also enforced it. The Agreement requires arbitrators to respect international law, justice, good neighbourly relations and relevant circumstances and the solution must be fair to both countries. Respect for the situation on 25 June 1991 for any unilateral document after that date shall have no legal effect, shall not bind any party to the dispute and shall in no way prejudice the judgment. And the reason that is also very important: it is clear from the opinion of the Constitutional Court that the proposal does not conflict with the Constitution. In this respect, it is worth noting that the agreement does not provide for the arbitral tribunal to determine whether Slovenia has contact with the open sea. The agreement speaks of the arbitral tribunal establishing the contact of Slovenia with the high seas. The fact that, in qualitative terms, this arbitration agreement is a surplus of all the possible agreements that we have reached bilaterally or considered to have reached with Croatia supports the decision taken by the National Assembly or was an important reason for us to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement. Today's adoption of the resolution on the call for a referendum brings about an important period where we will answer the questions and dilemmas raised by those who will decide in the end by the proponents and opponents of the agreement. Article 33 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative provides for the date of the referendum. In accordance with the provisions of this Article, the signatories are proposed on 6 June 2010. Let me finally summarize the text that we wrote in the explanation. Having regard to the agreement of the Presidents of all parliamentary parties on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum adopted at the meeting of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor on 26 March 2010, the signatories estimate that it is such an important issue that the implementation of the law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should also be assessed by the voters and voters in the Republic of Slovenia. We propose that the National Assembly today adopt a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum with the question: "Are you in favour of implementing the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 19 April 2010? The vote in the referendum should take place on Sunday, 6 June 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office of Parliament. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a subsequent legislative referendum was made by a government coalition, or more specifically by the President of the Government, after considering and withdrawing from the proposal for a preliminary referendum on an arbitration agreement. In the meantime, there has been an unfortunate ratification of the arbitration agreement in the National Assembly, which has only made the case more complicated. The arbitration agreement was ratified in a constitutionally disputed manner in the National Assembly. In our opinion, in an unconstitutional way. The National Assembly decided on the entry of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union or on the transfer of Romanian and Bulgarian sovereignty to the European Union or its authorities by a two-thirds or constitutional majority. Our borders and the state sovereignty of Slovenia have been decided by a simple majority. At the same time, you have also determined that each Member shall have a maximum of one minute to discuss. As Dr. Miro Cerar said, it is a large stain on the body of Slovenian democracy. And it is a completely formal question whether we should even call a referendum on a law that has been passed by an insufficient majority, i.e. in an unconstitutional way. But obviously in this situation, the referendum is the only way we can try to prevent the great damage that could arise through the implementation of the arbitration agreement, so we have also contributed signatures to this referendum requirement. During the term of office of the former, our governments, and before that, the fundamental principle of negotiating between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia was that each agreement requires at least two-thirds of the support in advance in both parliaments or between political parties in both countries. This principle was based on the experience of the failed attempt to ratify the Drnovšek-Racan agreement in the Croatian Parliament. Even once, without two-thirds support in one or another country, it would be possible to agree on such an agreement or otherwise, but because of this negative experience in ratifying the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, of course we avoided it in both countries. The current Slovenian government, however, repeats the mistake of the former Croatian Prime Minister Ivica Račana, who has not coordinated the agreement with all parliamentary parties in the Parliament and has therefore never been ratified. Following a principle agreement at Bled in the summer of 2007, in order to try to harmonise the arbitration agreement for the Hague court or for any other acceptable form of resolution of the border issue with the help of a third party, we set up Slovenian works of mixed border commissions and for a legal framework. Nine members participated on a proposal from the opposition at the time. All views were aligned with all parliamentary parties. In this mandate, we have learned from the media about the signing or intention of the Pahor-Kosor Agreement, first of all from foreign countries. We also learned from foreign media about the draft agreement Pahor-Kosor, only then did the text come to the National Assembly. No one from the opposition was invited to prepare him. Even experts preparing the Drnovšek-Račan agreement did not participate in the preparation of this arbitration agreement. Only a few experts from international law from Slovenia participated, mostly those who wrote in the introduction of the Slovenian Maritime Code a decade ago that Slovenia is a territorially disadvantaged country. That the government itself does not believe in a good outcome of arbitration, although it constantly speaks differently, but in particular does not believe in the result that would preserve the territorial exit to the open sea, the two direct evidence is contained in the text itself. Firstly, the arbitration agreement to be sent to the referendum today requires the Court to first establish the border between the countries on land and on the sea, in accordance with international law. Only then does the arbitration agreement require the court to determine the contact of Slovenia with international waters. Whoever has not read this part of the agreement should read it again. If the Slovenian government believed that our border would end in the international sea, point B of this agreement would not be necessary at all. Point B of this Agreement makes sense only if it is assumed that the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, established under international law, will not end in the open sea. It is only in this case that there is a need to establish contact with the high seas or the need to determine some service route from the Slovenian territorial waters across the Croatian sea into international waters. Once again, if the Slovenian government believed that arbitration would ensure that Slovenia maintained territorial contact with international waters, only point A in this agreement would be sufficient, but not point B. Point B is only meaningful if it did not believe that arbitration would set a limit so that it would end in international waters. The second reason or other obvious evidence that the Government itself does not believe in a good outcome of this agreement is the fact that, according to some information, the Slovenian side has proposed an extremely long assessment period. We all remember that Commissioner Rehn's proposal last year has determined that the arbitral tribunal should decide within one year of the ratification of the agreement, that is, before deciding on Croatia's entry into the European Union. This timeline was beneficial for Slovenia. The present, by a simple majority of the ratified arbitration agreement in the National Assembly, moves the decision to an indefinite future. In fact, the agreement even provides for the work of the court to start only after the Croatian signing of the accession treaty. If the government believed that the arbitration agreement was good for Slovenia, then the final decision would have been sought as soon as possible and not only at a time when its mandate was long overdue. We are now ahead of the final stage of this procedure, and the resolution on the call for a referendum has to be adopted and the arbitration agreement has to be rejected, because this agreement is bad for Slovenia and is bad for Croatia and for the European Union. For Slovenia, this agreement is weak because, for the first time, it threatens the maritime status of the Slovenian State as it takes the right to use already declared sovereign belts in the Adriatic. Five years ago, the National Assembly passed the Law on the Announcement of Sovereign Belts in the Adriatic Sea. By this arbitration agreement, Slovenia renounces this sovereign right. This agreement is bad for Slovenia because it threatens the territorial link between the Republic of Slovenia and the international waters of the Mediterranean. This agreement threatens the economic interest of Luke Koper and Slovenia. The agreement threatens Slovenian sovereignty and exposes it to disproportionate risks at a time when Slovenia's international position is objectively the strongest in history. And fifthly, this agreement is bad for Slovenia because it disputed Slovenia. Now we are not in a border dispute with Croatia, which would be normal, because we have different views, we are in a dispute with each other, and the Croatian Parliament has ratified this agreement with enormous unity and will obviously be transferred to the next generation as if we were old enough. For Croatia, the arbitration agreement is bad because its confirmation at the referendum would certainly further complicate Croatia's entry into the European Union. At best, entry would be delayed until the court's decision, at worst in the indefinite future. Here, too, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made the same mistake as the Slovenian government at the time of the signing of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. It did not require assurances of sufficient political support for the agreement in Slovenia. An additional error has been made by the Republic of Croatia by adopting a unilateral declaration stating that the agreement cannot be interpreted in any way by the Republic of Slovenia having the right to territorial exit to the international sea. Of course, the error of the Croatian government here is smaller than that of the Slovenian government, and last but not least is the fact that only 7 members of the Croatian Parliament voted against the arbitration agreement. Ratification of this agreement would complicate Croatia's entry into the European Union, but Croatia has taken this decision in a uniform manner and will at least not argue about the consequences. And for the third time, the arbitration agreement is bad for the European Union because its possible verification or ratification would complicate the enlargement process in the Western Balkans, which is clearly clear to anyone who can calculate five steps forward. Apparently, Slovenians will decide their own boundaries for the second time in history on plebiscite. We were the first to make that decision, or some of our cousins decided on the northern border 90 years ago. That's when we lost 5,000 votes on the plebiscite. We lost 11% of the population and some vital parts of the territory also because some of the then Slovenian politicians in Ljubljana looked at Koroška through the prism of their own political and personal interests. Today history repeats itself sadly. The government is counting on people to vote in favour of an arbitration agreement, that there will be peace because they are at the door of a holiday on the Adriatic coast or because of weekends in Croatia. Neither of them nor the other rejection of the arbitration agreement will take or threaten them, and I believe that the Slovenians are greater patriots than some of the politicians of the government coalition. Today, on the Committee on Foreign Policy, we have heard the President, who, among the arguments in support of the arbitration agreement, listed the fear of cutting tires and nationalist failures on both sides. How little has changed in Ljubljana in the last 1990s. A few years ago, the current President of the Republic, who supports this agreement, published a textbook on international law, stating that Slovenia is a typical example of a territorially disadvantaged country. And today it supports an agreement that goes precisely this way. A few days ago, we were also able to read the opinion of author Boris Pahor, who said about this agreement: "Look at the border issue with Croatia. Here Slovenia will burn the piano again." No arbitration can of course determine that Slovenia will have an exit to the sea, that is clear, we have always had it. We can only regret that we do not have a Boris Pahor figure for the President of the country at this moment. The arbitration agreement is bad for Slovenia, it is bad for Croatia and the European Union, so it must be rejected. However, in order for this to happen, this resolution on the referendum to be adopted must be adopted, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the speaker expressed the view that the Arbitration Agreement Act was unconstitutional or unlawfully ratified in the National Assembly, I will read part of the legal opinion: "The Arbitration Agreement is a type of international treaty for which ratification is the responsibility of the National Assembly in Slovenia. However, the title and content of the arbitration agreement does not imply that part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to an international organisation, as defined in Article 3a of the Constitution. Therefore, since this international agreement does not fall within the exclusive category of international treaties covered by Article 3a of the Constitution, it should be considered, from a constitutional point of view, that an arbitration agreement is ratified by a law adopted by the National Assembly in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution by a majority of the votes of the Members present. Thus, the National Assembly may and should, if so decided, adopt an arbitration agreement only in that manner and in accordance with Articles 86 of the Constitution and 169. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." Signed by Dr. Miro Cerar. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Janji Klasinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Mr President, the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government with ministers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 36th urgent meeting today, the Committee on Foreign Policy addressed the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was forwarded by the group of Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, on 36 April this year to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and had no comments on the text of the draft decision. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Government, which supports the proposal for a decree. In the debate, Mr Anderlich and Mr Juri explained why they were not themselves among the signatories to the call for a legislative referendum. However, they said they would support the ratification law at the referendum. Anton Anderlič considered that the question was whether it was the right decision to place such a difficult issue on the voter side, since Members should take responsibility for the ratification vote. Obstruction of members of the opposition at the meeting of the National Assembly on 19. 4. 2010 when the law on ratification was adopted meant that it was adopted only by the votes of the coalition. In fact, Franco Juri considered that it was only a technical issue, since the agreement provided for ways to resolve the dispute, and therefore it was not a matter of establishing a border. Representatives of the opposition parliamentary groups reiterated that the arbitration agreement for Slovenia is harmful, that it does not contain the "ex aequo et bono" principle, the question is, what will be the result, the consequences will be long-term and visible only in the future, and this law must be rejected at the referendum. They believed that voters would vote against the law in the referendum and thus show maturity, thus defending the sovereignty of the territory of Slovenia. They considered that the arbitration agreement was a poor solution, that it was a better status quo and that negotiations on resolving the border issue should start from the beginning. They said that the Constitutional Court had already considered that it was necessary to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in advance and that a two-thirds majority would be required to adopt the law. Representatives of the coalition parliamentary groups, however, considered that the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement should be supported at the referendum, while agreeing that 86 signatures at the request of the legislative referendum at first sight show great uniformity of political parties and that there is in fact great disunity. They agreed that this was a very complex issue, so it is very important to present the arguments at the time of the pre-referendum campaign, while efforts must be made to prevent populism and to hold the referendum accountable must be taken over by the whole policy, both the coalition and the opposition. They considered the agreement to be the best possible solution to the multi-annual border dispute, which takes account of Slovenian vital interests. They pointed out that point B of the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Arbitration Agreement clearly states that the arbitral tribunal determines the contact of Slovenia with the high seas and that the agreement also contains a descriptive principle of fairness. They pointed out that the President of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs had participated in the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy and had informed the Parliament and Members of the contents of the text throughout the drafting of the arbitration agreement. After the discussion, the Committee voted on all parts of the draft resolution together and adopted it with 10 votes in favour and not one vote in favour. As no amendment was adopted to the motion for a decree at the meeting of the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to introduce the opinion. Borut Pahor, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Dear Mr. President, the High House! Before we focus on the reasons why it is good for us to go together with our people to the referendum and together decide on this capital political issue - not least, the border is one of the vital elements of sovereignty - let me say some of the introductory words concerning the agreement itself, without repeating what I have already said when we ratified the agreement. First of all, let's not forget the next one. There has been a lot of talk here about the mistakes that have been made during the negotiations and with the agreement itself. To avoid looking for diplomatic words, the biggest mistake that Slovenia can make in 2010 is to reject a good arbitration agreement with neighbouring Croatia, to further regulate relations with this eastern neighbour, to strengthen its international reputation and prestige, to risk political conflicts that are unpredictable to issues that also concern security in the future. The main mistake we would have made if we had not ratified this agreement is to remain in the state it is. Today we have heard from some, and we will still be able to start from the beginning so that a better solution can be achieved. Today, 19 years after both countries declared independence, we had no better solution. Today, however, Slovenian people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the opportunity to decide, by their conscience and judgment, whether I am the chief negotiator, and therefore take full responsibility, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with my closest colleagues in the Cabinet, with experts, the President of the Republic, ministers and members of Parliament, in particular coalition members, to agree on an agreement in order to protect the vital interests of the Republic of Slovenia. That's a key question. Does he protect them? Yeah. Protect them. After 19 years, when we had no agreement to deal with this vital issue between the two countries, we now have a proposal for this agreement, which protects these vital interests in the manner set out in the content of the arbitration agreement imposing an arbitration agreement on land and sea borders under international law, taking into account the vital interests and all relevant circumstances, to determine the final course of the border on land and on the sea between the countries and thereby to remove the most important and difficult issue left between the countries after the independence of 25 June. A catastrophic error would be if Slovenia decided not to accept this agreement but to reject it. First of all, I say this with a heavy heart, because, last time in the last few months, I have spoken to the President of the Government, with whom we have built a very strong bridge of trust, I have spoken to her colleagues, whom we have had to go through a hard test of the credibility of the words spoken. If we refuse this agreement to the Slovenians, the Croats will not complain much. Croatia would never have signed this agreement if the red light had not been on fire before the entry into the European Union. Also Slovenians that Croats would now have no bad feelings, you know, that we Slovenians are the only ones who have been forced by some historical circumstances to gain some of their special benefits. We Slovenians have also paid the price of entry into the European Union. In 1997, we amended the Constitution by a two-thirds majority to meet the so-called Spanish compromise, which was a translation of the Italian special requirements for the return of real estate in nature. The Czechs, Poles and some other nations and countries that have joined the European Union have done the same. And that there will be no misunderstandings, I am a little bit more at home in this regard, because this is my area of expertise, you will not believe, from the beginning when countries started to participate only in the coal and steel community and then expanded the European Community, and practically also the great countries that entered, say Great Britain or other, forced them to do some things they would never do, even as regards bilateral relations between them, if these countries had no interest in entering the European Community. If Slovenia does not approve the arbitration agreement, Croatia will not worry much. The concerns she has on her side will be resolved, and this is that she had to agree to the provision in Article 3, so that Slovenia will have contact with the open sea by decision of the arbitral tribunal, a thing that Croatia does not recognise today in Slovenia. In order not to have any misunderstandings, I will return to that later when Slovenian ships sail to the open sea, Croatia does not consider that they are sailing through the territorial waters of Slovenia to the open borders, but through diplomatic notes received by the Slovenian Government, they interpret this as a service right or their consent to the fact that, without reservations from the economic interests of Slovenia, they can carry out maritime transport to the open sea - so that there will be no misunderstandings. Another time. Croatia will therefore not mourn our decision not to make an agreement. Finally, as Croatia correctly assessed under me, I must say, to the brave leadership of the Prime Minister, that joining the European Union for Croatia is so important that it will adopt the second Rehn proposal, which at first was totally unacceptable to her. And one of the important political leaders in this country, not coalition, was, when the first Rehn proposal was published, saying something important, "not perfect, but nothing in life is perfect, so it is possible to live." The second proposal of Rehn was exactly what we wanted. The main mistake that would have been made in addition to the fact that Croatia, which I consider not only to be a neighbouring country, but I would like to consider it a friendly country with which we have a comprehensively developed relationship, is that it is faster than the desire of any country to have friends, not opponents, in the neighborhood, to preserve the situation as it is. I will ask the Minister of the Interior, when she has the opportunity to do so, to clarify the history of control over the Bay of Piran after 25 June 1991. It is not necessary to do so at an open meeting of the National Assembly, nor at an open meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, but it is right for Members and Members to know what was going on with the control of the Gulf of Piran at that time. Whenever a Slovenian police boat, even when I ordered it and took responsibility for it during my term, ordered it to cross the middle line, the Croatian side protested that a Slovenian police boat had entered Croatian territorial waters. If we stay in the situation we are in, for example, the border crossing in Sečovje will remain where it is. In 1993, the Croatian Prime Minister at Drnovskov's note said that it was a temporary facility serving in particular the tourist season to facilitate the transition of tourists and that the principle that the border was not set would be taken into account. This border crossing is over there. And in the documentation that Croatia has sent to the European Commission, it has stated in one of the documents that this is a permanent international transition of the relevant category, which will remain so. If we do not change things with this agreement, and with this agreement we will change these things, of course, then it will remain as it is. The border is thus expected to take place in the middle of the Gulf of Piran after the Croatian interpretation. Three municipalities on the left side of Draganje will be managed by Croatian local and state authorities. On Hotiza, the situation will be as it is. And it's not what it's supposed to be, in the circumstances we witnessed on June 25, 1991. Not to mention. Before I say why this agreement is good, however, I must ask those who are major opponents of this agreement, and they will address it, and this is a legitimate right for our people not to support it, to answer a few questions. First: If the agreement is rejected and the will of the people is taken into account, will Slovenia block Croatia's negotiations with the European Commission? Prejudice, as soon as the arbitration agreement does not enter into force, will not be abolished. Will Slovenia block Croatia at the end of negotiations with the European Commission? When you answer that question, I want you to tell us what the consistency and price of this decision will be. Another time. When you talk about the alternatives that we supposedly had, not only did these alternatives not come to an end as ours and it was an arbitration agreement not only signed but also ratified in both high houses, I would like to say that Haag decides, at least so we can understand from his case-laws, so that it can be determined in similar cases, such as the Slovenian central line for the basis, and then with small derogations, if it also takes into account the principle of 'ex aeque et bono', it has only been taken into account twice, and in international law has only been taken into account twice, concessions for a kilometer I or a kilometer there or a meter there, we cannot say that. The President correctly predicted this; we cannot accurately predict the decision of the court. If we reject the agreement, they say we'll start from the beginning. From what beginning? Since 25 June 1991, I suppose. We Slovenians started from the beginning and had some initiatives. President Drnovšek has arrived at the longest. However, the matter did not end in the Croatian Parliament and it did not end, ladies and gentlemen, because Croatia understood that President Račan initialled something that interfered with the territorial territory of the Republic of Croatia. It passed a two-thirds law, which now required the Croatian Parliament to adopt an arbitration agreement by the same majority so that this would never happen again. So let there be no ambiguity as to what Croatia thinks it is. However, as President of the Slovenian Government, I must also say that there is no ambiguity as to what we think is ours. That is why we have also sought the content of such an agreement as you have before you. So why is arbitration better than The Hague? Because it allows for greater flexibility with regard to the procedure and rules under which the arbitrators decide and we will have our own lawyer in this court. I did not conclude this agreement in order to achieve peace, because peace would be more important to me than fair borders. For me, these are two equivalent goals. Without a fair border, there is no peace among the nations. Even if Croatia, because of its interest in joining the European Union, had agreed that the border was with the river and would have entered the European Union, this speed would not have been a fair border and would sooner or later have raised a neighbouring nation against such a solution. We are therefore looking for a line that will be fair and that will ensure peace among the nations. We usually talk about fair borders when both nations agree equally with each other and do not agree that this is the limit they want. We are working to get things back on the day of their independence. We don't have that condition right now. If we don't reach an arbitration agreement, we'll stay on top of it. And let me tell you, because this again concerns an area that I know a little better for myself, for longer than we will delay with a solution, we will have to witness to the so-called final status, because there will be no new solutions to the old problems, it will require that those that have occurred over time apply. This means the middle of the Bay of Piran, Plonia, Hotiza ect, ect, ect. There was a lot of talk here when we talked about honesty and dishonesty, about the ability of negotiators for an arbitration agreement, that there was a vital vital issue, and about the vital issue being discussed in the agreement, about vital interest, about the relevant circumstances, what else was it like to translate the "ex aequo et bono" principle, and without having to say again, because, last but not least, I am Patrick's suggestion, because he is an international maritime lawyer and not me, he brought this position to the round table of client presidents, and what guarantee gives us the "ex aequo et bono" principle to get in touch with the open sea, who can give us this guarantee?Oh, my God! Now we've got her. Article 3 states that Slovenia has contact with the arbitral tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenia with international waters. And we, Croatia and the international community know what that means. Someone said that Croatia's unilateral statement substantially changes these things. Nothing changes them. I'd change them if I changed the content of the agreement, but it's not. Was that a threat? Oh, of course she was. Have we been thorny about the success of this agreement in the last month of the negotiations? Oh, of course we were. For 18 years, the ongoing history of negotiations has told us that we are less likely to succeed than we are to succeed. But we took advantage of the small window of opportunity that has given us this historic responsibility and privilege to conclude an agreement, and this agreement that gives Slovenia contact with the open sea. The continuation of the status quo would therefore, ladies and gentlemen, make Slovenia and Croatia definitively distant from the solution, their border issue. Border issues, leaving others less important, but they were in this part of Europe, we do not belong to the Balkans, but we are on its side, a sufficient reason not only for incidents. When was the Slovenian special unit in Hotiza? In the last century? No, no, no. A few years ago. The problem is, it's not just an accident. The problem is that it is not only a possibility of minor or larger conflicts. The problem is that this can seriously damage some interpersonal trust between two nations, among people living together in the neighborhood. Since we are both on the verge of a completely unregulated area, there is peace and security for now, but certainly not prosperity that would ensure the sustainability of this peace and security, because the borders are not defined, ladies and gentlemen. Then it means establishing a border between the two countries that are in the sensitive area of South-Eastern Europe, something that is more important only for Slovenia and Croatia and for the region, but is important for the whole of Europe and for the entire international community. When the arbitrators set a limit, they will take into account all relevant circumstances. It is not true that they will only respect international law. The Hague Agreement, however, is based on international law. Someone will say, because we have set up a mixed commission to reach the principle of righteousness. So you're here? No, no, no. Of course not. Finally, even Croatia might be willing to agree to the principle of justice, only this boat sailed. I had different ideas in January. And I was so damn lucky, which is usually on the brave side, that in June it all turned out good and good. As far as ex aequo et bono is concerned. The International Court of Justice in The Hague has never ruled on this principle since its establishment in 1945. But once again, because there will be a lot of debate about this, the arbitration agreement essentially translates the principle of fairness through the consideration of vital interests and through the relevant circumstances, and not least in article 3 with the open sea. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years Slovenia has missed out on the opportunity to take as a country that has taken a major step forward from independence - and those who have been at the forefront of the quest for democracy are going through our great recognition, and those who have been at the forefront of the effort to enter the European Union and NATO are going through our great recognition. Only those who have tried to resolve the last of the big questions can be acknowledged that we have not missed the vital interests of Slovenia because of our failure to reach a solution at all costs, but we have realized them, such as the heirs of democracy and independence, ours, if I may use the English term, colleague Pukšič, our 'fathers', at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s. By adopting an arbitration agreement, Slovenia will protect its vital interests, improve its multilateralism - I am sure that this is already happening - relations with neighbouring Croatia, will strengthen its influence in the region, economic, political, and will gain the reputation of a country that solves the most difficult problems in a calm manner. It will become a country that will once again be an example to those in and around the region. And what I have to say in the end - so much immodest can already be afforded - this agreement was reached at a time when Slovenia was facing the greatest economic and social crisis and when it had to be properly assessed that only the solution to this issue meant, and that is, as soon as possible and better, that Slovenia could fully devote itself to its economic recovery and that this economic recovery would be sustainable and that, because we will have all other issues resolved, it could push us into the club of the most developed countries in Europe for a long time. We have an opportunity that is rarely offered, but people will decide on it, we are already voting for an agreement that brings a fair solution to the border between the two countries, which solves an old problem that solves unanswered questions, what is the alternative to being rejected, thus raising the image, status, influence of Slovenia in the region and beyond, and which will make the Slovenians an example to the many people once again of how big problems need to be solved in order to look into the future with confidence and not with fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, honourable President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, distinguished Secretary-General of the Government, colleague and colleague. After almost two decades of uncertainty in the uncertainty of the southern border line, on 6 June 2010 will certainly be entered into the history of Slovenians with a large beginning. The electorate and the electorate will then vote for one of the most important national decisions, according to the nature of which it is right and fair that it is taken directly by the electoral body of the independent and independent Republic. Members of the DeSUS supported the ratification of the arbitration agreement unanimously without doubting its bright future for the Slovenian territory. In the hope that this will also be the decision of most voters and voters, we are Members of the DeSUS co-signatory of the referendum request. It is clear to us that the border dispute that arose shortly after the emergence of the two new young countries after the collapse of the formerly common country and despite the great efforts made at bilateral level to resolve the border issue at certain points will not be resolved without the assistance of the third country. It is also important to recognise that in the broad range of interests of both countries and the benefits of their citizens and good neighbourly relations, which are a prerequisite for achieving universal co-existence in the wider and wider international community, all open border issues must be resolved definitively. This, we hope, is, or will be, clear to the voters and voters when they decide on the fate of the already ratified arbitration agreement at the referendum. It is important that people will know that they will not decide on the border flow, but will determine whether or not to decide on the border by means of an arbitration tribunal. Our cross-border national interest is clearly outlined in the arbitration agreement when it comes to judging the outcome of a given date and that date for us a clearly defined formal and actual exercise of territorial authority. Nothing more and nothing less can be expected to be awarded to us by the Tribunal of Experts, which we will leave to them for too long an insurmountable issue, which, as we all know, damages the fertility of social and economic relations between countries. Further moving away from constructively solving problems with border lines and maintaining a leaked state, which is a very thin line to the already experienced and sensitive provocations, incidents and various other tensions and blockades, is an extremely irresponsible conduct and a permanent obstacle to peaceful and quality coexistence between the two neighbouring countries. The Communication and Leadership for the Referendum Campaign and the starting point for the voters and voters to take a decision on the fate of the current agreement will be final. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the path of an arbitration agreement at national level ends with the expressed human will at the proposed subsequent legislative referendum. The question for voters and voters will be clearly raised. We agree with that, too. The proposal for a decree is therefore fully acceptable. However, we are also aware that the campaign will constitute a sharp fight between all of us, who, by signing, have expressed almost one hundred percent unity in support of referendum decision-making. But the intentions of taking hold of him and expecting the outcome of both hunts are each on its own side of the deep canyon. Finally, in the DeSUS Group, we hope that the referendum outcome will turn on the green light for the final relaunch of the arbitration agreement, which is the product of good decisions and for the good of our own and the neighbouring country, and finally, in the eyes of the wider international community, confidence in stability, the developments in this part of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Have a nice hello to you all. Today must be an important day, a historic day. And it will be June 6th. And that reminds me of that historic day of 10. Ten. 1920, when we lost Koroška. Now we will lose a large part of Slovenia. Much bigger than we lost him back then in Koroška. Even then, Ljubljana’s politicians have led to this, and even today, Ljubljana’s politicians will bring it all together. After all, when I listened to the Prime Minister, it seemed to me that Mrs Kosoreva was writing his speech and that she had given him those points. For, as has been evident, Mr Pahor is significantly more afraid of what will happen to Croatia than what will happen to Slovenia. So I would suggest to him that it be an ombudsman and not do it here. No, not the Croatian Prime Minister, because the Croatian Prime Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u13	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u14	must be very consistent and defend the interests of his country. [[...]] But you can go for the Croatian ombudsman, Mr. Prime Minister. I think that in this way, as we are here solving such a vital issue of the existence of the Slovenian state, we are going to go into the stupid variants that have essentially grown on some comsomolian thinking of the Kumrov students who are walking through a self-government agreement. Why? We're talking about an arbitration agreement. A big nonsense for anyone who knows Slovenian. There can be no arbitration agreement. It could be an arbitration agreement. Therefore, the Croatian official texts will always, without exception, follow the arbitration agreement. We're talking about an arbitration agreement, but it's not. Because the fact is that this is a poor knowledge of Slovenian syntax, Slovenian language. If we looked at the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, we would get an explanation of the word "o" for an "agreement on something". If we look at the Slovenian spelling under the word "arbitrary" only states the judge, the verdict and apparently the strike association is the arbitration agreement absurd. But of course, the Slovenian government, including our Constitutional Court, does not even know the Slovenian language, how it could then be ordered to know the law and international law and international diplomacy, where every word, every comma, every emphasis on the word is extremely important. We treat our country like a pig with fur. We kick her, we walk on her, we spit on her, and we don't care about everything. Perhaps it would be really good if we went back to Croatia, including those of our so-called international and maritime lawyers who had graduated or listened to in various Rudolphs, because for them too, Mr Rudolf said that we would never have passed his exam again. He said very vaguely, but very cruel and very real. And there's something missing. History. We don't know her, we don't know her, gentlemen. The government doesn't care about history. No one gets circumcised for what ever happened, how it happened, and why something happened. After all, the whole pack of our politicians, our wise men, our lawyers don't understand these connections, these verbal connections, and when we talk about the arbitration agreement, I've tracked down a single record of a single journalist in all of Slovenia's space media, and that was Mr. Jakopek in Del. One, one, one. This should be rewarded and set aside for the person sitting there in the SAZU, at least he will not do any harm to the Slovenian language. Mr Prime Minister said that the agreement would protect vital interests, although he said Slovenia, I am sure that it would protect Croatia's vital interests, because it will assign them something that Croatia never had. The fact is that all the borders in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and later in, say, democratic Yugoslavia, in the DFJ, FLRJ and later the SFRJ were only administrative, never regulated by any international, inter-State, inter-public agreement. It's not like that. The only legally relevant fact that has a weight in international policy and international law is the border area that the Slovenian countries had during the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, namely, these were Crohnian countries, which means they had state status. Croatia did not have this status because in the Greek part it was practically one subordinate local factor. This was also the case with King Alexander, who said this in the Belgrade Constitutional Assembly at the time of the establishment of the common countries. He acknowledged the entry into the common country to the Slovenians, but not to the Croats, because Croatia was only a bitter part of Serbia's war prey, only our lawyers, although our politicians do not know, read; they may read, no, Alan Ford is already too heavy. I can also say that the Constitutional Court has no particular idea if it does not correct this in the referendum question: are you in favour of implementing the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement and so on? Croats strictly write, once again, arbitration agreements, there are no mistakes, except sometimes when it comes to descriptive matters in some texts, in what kind of media, they write an arbitration agreement, but there is one essential difference that our gentlemen don't know, "the arbitration agreement" begins with a large opening, "the arbitration agreement", when they write in a conversational language with a small opening, but for such finance in Slovenia - let it be, it doesn't matter, as it is not an important Slovenian border, as it is not an important Slovenian victim, as it is not an important Slovenian blood. Only that Croatia will be pleased that Europe will applaud us, that it will pat us on the shoulders and nothing else. And Europe knows this well, because such servants as it has in the Slovenian government do not have them anywhere. Not a single country in Europe, except in the European Community, is functioning as volatilely as it is - because I do not know what kind of case I would give. I'm looking around the animal world - I can't find, maybe I could go to single cells, there to parameters, or "Euglena viridis," for example, maybe because of my variable shape, such a case would be appropriate. There is also talk of a date of 25. 6. 1991, however, if I had not said this at a closed session of the Committee on International Relations, even the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not know this, Slovenia had taken over 25. 6. 1991, but Croatia doesn't. It is said that everything we have negotiated with Croatia is not valid because we have not negotiated with Belgrade. Because Croatia was 25. 6. Part of the SFRJ and became independent only 8. Ten. 1991. This speaks Croatian, not just the media, everyone knows this in Croatia. We don't know anything. We don't have any deal from that time. The Croats "fucked us"; I mean, not me, but you are a lot of people! But that's how it is in our country. It doesn't matter. Excuses and excuses will be sought for our mistakes and for the well-being of anyone. And one more thing. The Prime Minister was talking about the Bay of Piran. The question of the Bay of Piran was answered by wise men who had long thought about these matters in Croatia in 1991. One of them was Dr. Peter Vukic, who did this brilliantly. And through intelligence, they started asking the question of the Bay of Piranhas. We should never ask this question, for the Bay of Piran was undoubtedly Slovenian, always. Even if we look at military maps, we can see that despite all the changes, even the Savudrian Cape in Slovenian waters and in Slovenian territory were still in the last military divisions of the Adriatic Sea. If we took the military division, we would see where the military division was in the SFRJ and that the whole Istria was included in the Slovenian military territory, but that is not important to our gentlemen. The important thing is that our neighbors will be happy to clap and laugh at us, just as they've been laughing at us all along. I would like us to have a government like that of Croatia, because their government, despite all the terrible weaknesses, and I will not go into an economic situation, but, as far as the protection of our own country is concerned, it is possible for us to set an example. Such "sellers" of their own national interests, such "price merchants" are not found in the world. And now they're going to impose an arbitration agreement on us, where the arbitrators will decide what happens. We'll be quiet. And given the knowledge our gentlemen have and how teams are preparing to write an accompanying memo, we can be sure that we have lost everything, even more than we have lost all along. Croatia, said Mr. Prime Minister, protested when our patrol or boat, that tire probably went towards the Croatian coast, in so far as it went two metres across that middle line, because usually the cops don't hope at all, they protested that it was a violation of territorial waters. When the Croatian police, armed, came to Piran, got off their boats, went for coffee in Piran, drove back, our people looked away. The police probably hid down there because they were scared, or maybe they were already wearing Croatian uniforms and shouting, "Hi, guys!" That's possible, too. In view of the way our country is going, it was probably more true than anyone who would have gone after the end. Mr Prime Minister said that Slovenia also risks security conflicts. Does this mean that the Croats will attack us?Oh, my God! Yeah, what are they gonna do?Oh, my God! In the middle of Europe, with a desire to join the European Union, they will prepare their troops and break into Slovenia with those tanks that we were "squeaking" at the time. And what's next, or are the fighting gases going to go down?Oh, my God! They still have them so you won't think they're out of stock, even from the Yugoslav Army. For a.55 millimeter. Your intelligence service should know that, but I don't think she knows that, and she doesn't know much. At the same time, when I say this, I hope that your government will not have me locked up again, that Mrs Kresalov will not "flight" with any horde of armed police officers and take me away again because of my opinion I am expressing here. I hope so, Mr. Prime Minister. Don't you agree that Mrs. Kresalova would come? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Yeah, well, then maybe she'll send someone. I don't think she's got the shindig to come here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u17	I don't think he's afraid of you, Comrade Jelinčič. Don't worry, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Mr President of the National Assembly, I must answer the Prime Minister. I think it's almost my duty, unless you confess to me, then I'll take your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u19	The Prime Minister should be silent right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u20	And until when should I remain silent, Mr. President of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Prime Minister, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Probably best by the end of this term, right? Slovenia is ahead of the crossroads. And we're going to do this intersection on June 6. That's when we have to end this arbitration agreement. The fact is that in the face of incompetent Slovenian politicians, with incompetent Slovenian lawyers, we will lose even more than we have lost to date in the absence of history and lack of patriotism, national bullets and the desire to preserve the Slovenian people. The preparation of a group that will participate, let's say, in some way preparing this memo, is already showing up in some strange light, in some strange desire to include perhaps one or two other thinkers, but just for a sample, just so that someone can say, "Well, since this one was also there, nothing has been done." Nothing checks out who it is who would be for the country, but it's given to these groups of people who act and act as they're told. That is how our governments, who like the European Union, will like it. The European Union needs Croatia, Slovenia has less coastline and everything else, and it is also a little harder to buy in Slovenia. In Croatia, however, they have already collected everything and must now perform these nonsensees, which the Slovenians are going to do as soon as possible. But the Slovenians are going to kneel anyway, like they're still kneeling. Since 1992, we've only been kneeling, just nodding - without a spine. Nomads! Typical. Typical! One would wonder why it happened and how it was possible. Maybe we should read Cankar again when he says in his work that the whip's back is used and desired. Someone can be used to whip and get up and choose freedom. But if the whip is willing, it belongs to pathology, but pathology is today "in" in Slovenia. The bigger the pathology, the better. And if government circles and economic circles are involved, then so-called intellectual circles in different pathologies are even worse than I have just mentioned, then that's it. Maybe it starts with a whipping, but it continues with the bolmastifi. I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u23	My friend Jelinczych. I warn you to remain on the subject, this is the decision to call for a referendum on an arbitration agreement. Please remain within the limits of the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u24	I hope, Mr President, that you will give me this discussion in a minute. We're back there. Also, Mr President of the National Assembly, who is a master, the doctor once again said "the arbitration agreement". But I did explain to him that this is an absurd word connection. But that doesn't mean anything. The main thing is that the government has said, that's how it has to be, and that's how it's going to be. The solution is to reject all of this together at this referendum. The Constitutional Court just said so because it had to say so. It didn't understand, probably not even a question. Probably, not only did he not understand the question, he probably didn't even know which country it was. Maybe they thought it was good for us, not for Croats. That's the way it is. I think it'll be another 50 years. At that time and until then, Slovenians will probably, with the help of Slovenian governments, if we don't, throw them away, and even if we don't do something to correct all the mistakes they've made since 1992. In fact, the beginning of the collapse is Demos' government and then all the way forward. Gambling, like Igokotke, was preparing the collapse of Slovenia, but now we are there to fail practically definitively. Therefore, we will support this matter here, which some call the ratification of the arbitration agreement, despite the senseless, foolish and so on. But the fact is that we will vote against it in the referendum. I only hope that the Slovenian people have already developed so much patriotism that they will know that in 1991 some of us did not go with weapons to fight for those who were at one time or another to cooperate or anything else with the attackers so that those people would sell us again. Slovenia has lost almost two thirds of its territory in its history. Let's do something to get something of ours back, not "count" what some of us stole or didn't have to steal. What the Slovenian, Ljubljana politicians "scankali" did to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Respectable. It seems as if we are starting to discuss again all the issues that are supposed to be disputed at the time of the adoption of the law on ratification of the agreement establishing the border with Croatia and the rest, which is governed by the arbitration agreement. It was suggested that there would be an agreement between the political parties and the presidents and the president of the party of parliamentary parties, and they agreed on what the timetable should be. Surprisingly, Members and Members were so united in this agreement that we were not all able to do what Members had to do, i.e. ratify, adopt a law on ratification, adopt an arbitration agreement and then give it to voters and voters after careful consideration. It seems like today we are doing what we are supposed to do for us, because after 18 years we have not been able to resolve border issues with Croatia and some other issues, that we cannot now do it ourselves, so politics, and therefore we are putting on the electorate the responsibility that we have to take on ourselves. It is not disputed to us that the law is as it is, and the arbitration agreement is merely a procedure by which we are to establish a border, to establish contact with the open sea, to the exit to the open sea and to whom we are to be replaced. For us, this is quite clear in the agreement, and that is why all members of the Liberal Democracy have also supported the law in the wake of the opposition's obstruction. Today, it would be right to discuss the decision to call for a referendum that the arguments "for" and "against" are on the table, no, the content of the agreement itself, because it is no longer possible to discuss this, because the law has been adopted. We can only put on the table the arguments why it is right and good, which is advocated by the Government, coalition and part of the professional public, as well as by other interested public, to bring this part of the procedure to an end and that, unless otherwise, people decide in the referendum whether they accept this method, this process of setting borders and resolving open issues with the neighbour of Croatia. There is certainly no question today whether we are setting a limit to the top of the Savudrija Peninsula, whether we are dealing with issues relating to the status around Hotiza, whether we are dealing with the issue of the exit to the open sea or anything else. No! No! We're not doing this today! Today, it is simply necessary to say why someone is in favour of solving open questions after many years and why someone is not. It is more obvious that there should be an adjective in the sleeve to ensure, not by the Briony, not by the Bled, but by some magical formula, not by the Hague court, not by something else, which is better for Slovenia and when it will be applied. It would be right to do so when the proposal is clear when we have brought the procedure to the stage so that we can enter into an agreement so that procedures can be put in place to determine the arbitrators, when we can come in the day with our arguments, with documentation and, of course, in particular, to include in the work all those who, in Slovenia, can and of course, also hire someone from the outside who could have this determination to regulate the border and in a fair manner, in a way that must respect the agreement of both, which is in some way always a compromise. And that's what a decision to call for a referendum would actually need. I did not sign this request for a referendum alone, so that there would be no mistake. I am not opposed to deciding on this at the referendum, but I am sure that it is unnecessary to place the responsibility of voters and electorates, because I have to underline again, we do not set a limit on this, we do not ask any prejudices, but we want to settle a question. Today, too, the position of the Club is in such a way that the majority will support the call for a referendum, which is logical because it was such an agreement, despite the agreement that was played out. But I think that, above all, there is a year and more to come, since we have been discussing this issue, we are trying to rid ourselves of some of the illusions that it is possible, through an interpretation that occurs both in the National Assembly and in the public, what are you going to spend on this, and that we are going to go to a qualitative debate and try to discuss with citizens and citizens whether it is wrong to settle this issue, and in this way. If the debate goes only on this level for the last time, clearly, it was on the committee in the debate, but I think we have discussed this content several times in the National Assembly. I guess it's our desire to come to an argument too much and somehow it'll be hard to run into fertile soil. I just believe in the end that this will not be a referendum on support or non-support to the government. Here it is, once again, to determine the procedure for dealing with an open issue. And if you do not trust yourself and together all of us in the National Assembly, that we are empowered to be responsible for doing so at this stage, then it is up to voters and voters to decide, but it would be appropriate to put all the arguments on the table, because these sixty-six signatures under the request of the referendum come from completely different starting points. And this is not what is normal when it comes to plebiscite, when it comes to some issues that are supposed to be decided by "yes" or "no", but it is only when the arbitral tribunal begins to work, only when all the arguments are on the table, only when the documentation that we have large and Croats and where else we will probably get it will be examined by those who will be appointed to this arbitral institution, only then will it be possible to say that we are going in some direction of resolving borders and other open questions. Until then, we are only discussing the procedure. As we say, we want this referendum to take place in a kind of patient dialogue and to come to the fore with arguments, not that someone is less fond of him because he has tried something in the past, but failed, but now he does not allow anyone who currently has the authority to settle this issue, which has already been open for a time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you for saying so, Mr President of the National Assembly. Let me just start by saying that I agree with those who recommend us to read Cankar. I agree that Cankar needs to be read more and more, because he's getting more and more up to date. But in a group of social Democrats, we also read Prešern and Prešeren said, "But the shoes belong to the Copernicus." So let me just say that when there was doubt as to whether the title of this arbitration agreement was correct or not, let me say that the institutions of the European Union obviously also did not have a lot of qualified legal professionals, international lawyers, because this agreement is already referred to as "arbitration agreement" in the original. In short, it is not only an arbitration agreement, that arbitration will be, but it is also a matter of determining all the substantive issues to be decided by the arbitration tribunal. Therefore, the title of this Agreement is also quite correct. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the resolution on the call for a legislative referendum. We will support it because we respect the agreement reached by the President of the Government with the President and the President of the parliamentary parties, because we believe that it is right that the arbitration agreement and the procedure for resolving the nearly two decades-long border dispute with the neighbouring country be directly pronounced by the electorate and the electorate, and because we also want to see whether our citizens and citizens want to come to an end in due course of time to this problem, which is in a number of ways burdensome and difficult to establish and maintain normal, friendly, good-neighbourly and constructive relations with neighbouring Croatia, for which both countries are objectively interested. In doing so, we are sad or at least surprised that opposition groups did not want to participate in the meeting of the National Assembly when the latter ratified the arbitration agreement without them. Obviously they did not want to take responsibility for their decision, but now we continue to listen to the observation that it is unacceptable to take all the responsibility for the decision to elect and electorate, rather than allowing the policy to carry out its task and to exercise the powers it has received from the last general elections. That's not even what this is about. Nor is it about how much time was available for the general debate at the meeting of the National Assembly. It is simply that the opposition would in any case find an excuse to obstruct the meeting of the National Assembly, at which it would otherwise be required to show its own state-of-the-art attitude and to express itself directly either "for" or "against" and to take the appropriate responsibility for such a decision. Although we are now defining ourselves to the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum, today's meeting has already begun with some repeating their substantive views, if they are based on actual or untrue and distorted arguments. That is why I will also make a number of arguments on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats myself. In no way do we renounce our own sovereignty or autonomy. The Constitutional Court held that the agreement was not contrary to the Constitution and the Basic Constitutional Charter. The fact that the agreement provides that the arbitral tribunal must establish contact with the high seas means that the contact already exists. It is only necessary to determine exactly where it is or exactly where it is. The judgment of the arbitral tribunal will constitute a definitive solution to the dispute. The arbitration agreement is a compromise, every third country's decision poses some risks, but in our case this risk is reasonable. The Agreement requires arbitrators to respect international law, justice, good neighbourly relations and relevant circumstances and the solution must be fair to both countries. The Arbitration Agreement ensures the fulfilment of the strategic interests of Slovenia. The Arbitration Agreement has brought about a significant improvement in relations between countries. The lives of people at the border and those living from the sea will undoubtedly be easier. The agreement is a good legal framework for a solution and, of course, the final solution will require much more responsible work, and we will have to do this work ourselves, in Slovenia, so to speak, to prepare a truly well-founded and reasoned memorandum. Arbitration constitutes a means of peaceful resolution of disputes, which is in accordance with Article 33 of the United Nations Charter. The agreement mentions justice in several places, only before the arbitral tribunal will Slovenia be able to base historical circumstances, while such arguments before the Interstate Court in The Hague would already be condemned for failure. The arbitration agreement protects the vital interests of the Slovenian State, ensures contact with the open sea, provides a solution to the border issue and will also allow Croatia to enter the EU and help stabilise the entire region, which is also in our interest. It is a constructive compromise that will prevent the continuation of the conflict, which has taken credibility and international respect for both countries. Respect for the situation is required on 25 June 1991. The adoption of an arbitration agreement is also good because of the broader context of the overall improvement of relations between countries in both political and economic terms and due to good neighbourly relations as a whole, and in particular in the border area. Arrangements for smooth sailing to Luka Koper, its smooth operation and development can be made much easier in legally regulated and good neighbourly relations. Regulated and good-neighbourly relations between countries have a positive impact on stability in the region and can serve as a model for regulating open issues among other countries in the region. The international community and prominent personalities, the European Union countries, the senior officials of the European Union, the United States of America and also the Holy See, welcomed or welcomed the agreement to resolve the dispute before the arbitral tribunal as a major achievement and as a step forward in good-neighbourly relations, which are one of the fundamental principles of the European Union's functioning. Let me pull it up. Anyone who wishes to seek or hear arguments in favour of the application of the arbitration agreement will find or at least want to hear the latter. However, he will certainly not resort to quotations that are generally taken out of the context of the positions of the professional public and of individual experts. Unfortunately, this referendum will also have an uneven and divided Slovenian policy. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want and will do everything we can to ensure that, in the referendum campaign, at least the part of the Slovenian policy that we represent, the electorate and the electorate will present all relevant arguments and objective facts, fair and credible, without creating and distorting facts and without a figurine in his pocket, without political and populist receptions. Although these are very difficult content, even very difficult professionally, we are confident that our electorates and voters will be able to distinguish what is important, what is essential and what is not, and will accordingly decide on the referendum. So, the Social Democrats support this resolution on the call for a referendum. But what did he call Cankar? He said, "The country that God created you has blessed you with both hands and said happy people will live here." Let's add to this: "There will be happy and wise people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Today we are deciding on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. It is up to us because neither the internal policy nor the professional capacity nor the potential have been used, nor have we been sufficiently or sufficiently involved in the preparation of and the basis for this step. Both of them ignored and underestimated Dr. Türk and Kučan, with the generous support of both current and former president of the country. Probably conscious. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that any government, including Pahoreva, should combine all the ends of domestic policy in such long-term and fateful decisions and try to obtain the highest possible political and other consensus. We know that perfection would not be possible, but it could certainly achieve much more than that half-life that we are witnessing now that the coalition of arbitration agreements uncritically supports and that the opposition unitedly and argumentably opposes it. For the opposition, the referendum rejection of the arbitration agreement is the last chance, the last attempt to prevent harmful consequences for Slovenia, and to stop, with a voice "against", a plot in the Gulf of Piran, which will cut off Luka Koper and the rest of the coast from being directly connected with international waters, is said to be the open sea. For the coalition, however, the referendum is only a means of overcoming responsibility on the shoulders of citizens. The opposition was excluded from consultations on regulating relations with Croatia in this mandate. Pahor's government is an act, a so-called arbitration agreement, hidden even after it was published by Croatian and Slovenian media. After our insistence, we had only a closed, secret meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy and a meeting of the National Assembly, where we read from the letter of the Croatian President how Croatia interprets the agreement. But our top political representatives didn't know or wanted to know anything that was very interesting. All relevant content, opinions, opinions and other matters to this point, for Slovenia's key foreign and internal policy act, we first learned from either foreign and a little later on from the domestic press or from statements made by foreign politicians. The President of the Government of Pahor was moving, and Minister Zbogar was careful not to miss any more dispatches anyway. He must have learned how to handle such things in Washington. Croatia played its own game. Kosoreva linked Croatian politics, hid nothing from her, regularly met with all parliamentary parties, knitting and drinking tactics and content, and at every decisive stage of the procedure she was able to find a supplement to demand and achieve more than agreed. And she played Pahor every single time. The signing in Stockholm was followed by a letter from Kosorjeva, which became the main topic of the debate in the Slovenian Parliament as well. At the time of the adoption of the arbitration agreement in the assembly, however, the assembly adopted a special statement which leaves no doubt as to how Croatia represents the regulation of the border issue at sea. At that time, we or the government, the Prime Minister, have not prepared anything: an explanatory letter, not an interpretative act or an explanation. The Croatian government has also ensured that Croatian policy has reached a high level of consensus, as the agreement with the addition, with a special declaration, has been adopted with more than two thirds of the parliamentary Members. Even our Prime Minister of the Government has been involved in the developments in Croatia and has persuaded SDP Milanović, who, in fact, no one knows why, has been nodding his nose over the arbitration agreement, for God's sake, only to support this arbitration agreement in parliament. Something that was clear in advance that would happen, that the Croatian SDP would do, needed Pahor's "photo". Croatia, which will certainly win, has secured the decision with a high two-thirds threshold for decision-making in the assembly and in the Croatian referendum is not necessary, they do not have it. They saved time and money and preserved the unity of the nation. Don't I know that's weird? You, the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, who is absent, Mr Minister, the Council of Ministers and the Coalition, know now how Croatia has done this and what has happened to us! Croatia, which has about 1,000 kilometres of coastline and whose border arrangements in the Gulf of Piransk are more prestigious and emotional issues than anything else, has done everything to protect its interests. Slovenia, which is a border regime of vital importance in the Gulf of Piran, gambled everything in this mandate. "So what?" I'd say someone who was in this room a little earlier, and I'd probably just be sighing, not just, "What a fantastic day!"but probably even, "What a fantastic term!" Let's see what happened to us at that time. The President of the Republic, Dr. Türk, who has made sure that the most important embassies in Brussels, London, Washington, Berlin, Vienna, Moscow, The Hague, Copenhagen, Kiev, Bratislava and elsewhere remained unoccupied for a long time. In these global political capitals, we did not have ambassadors, but we did not have only business executives. At a crucial time in key global metropolises, we did not have a diplomatic army to defend and fight for Slovenian interests. This is probably due to political prestige, as Janša's government has proposed candidates for new ambassadors. For the President of all citizens, the most important thing was who would propose and how he would propose ambassadors or candidates for ambassadors, the country's needs were second-rate. From a few months to more than one year, our diplomacy was headed in a time of upheaval. In addition to the maritime disadvantaged country, we have again become a diplomatically disadvantaged country, thanks to the President. In the most important countries, we had no one to represent our interests in a meaningful manner. During this time, thousands of international events that have not heard our views, not our justice, not our truth, not our demands and proposals; they are Croatian. And it is difficult to expect someone who has created the conditions for shortening their homeland, then to support solutions that would allow Slovenia to export or go to the open sea. However, the current government of Pahor is the first since independence, which has agreed on the real possibility of maritime-territorial amputation of Slovenia. All her predecessors fought for free access to the open sea. Just remember the "dimnik", the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, the removal of Zrč, the insistence on the day of independence, the results of the Badinter Commission, the Brionic Declaration on the principle of external justice and so on. The Pahor's government is the first to deviate on the basis of the principles of its predecessors. And what else has she succeeded in subverting or destroying Pahor’s government? Instead of continuing the process of creating conditions for a just solution that would give Slovenia direct access to the open sea and with which Slovenia was able to achieve a situation in which Croatia was the one that was arrogant, inconvenient and hindered the solution, the Pahorje government put everything on its head with one move. Instead of previous conditional consents to some pre-accession chapters, the Pahor government suddenly declared the blockade for no reason. Unnecessary and reckless exacerbation that has put Slovenia in the position of a blackmailing state that is hampering its neighbour's entry into European and international ties. You may wonder whether this was an overestimation or an outpouring of the Prime Minister on the spot. The answer is incomprehensible. It wasn't there. As suddenly as the blockade happened, so did the blockade. All of a sudden, a second extreme came to the attention of Prime Minister Pahor during last year's holidays. When the Slovenian government suddenly made all reservations for Croatia and when practically there were no restrictions on Croatia, neither opening nor closing the chapters. Even after the disclosure and enlightenment of President Pahor's government, coalition MPs turned the board upside down. No more concerns, no more delays, but they were more than justified. The President of the Government of Pahor, relying on the support of the current and former President of the Republic, for their political influence and support for the media, has pledged to deal with the most important national issue of the internal political importance. It's completely different from what Janša's government did. The domestic opposition was completely excluded. The President of the Government of Pahor did not exactly invite any domestic political party to the talks, only to visit, as he visited the Croatian SDP. At home he did not want two-thirds support in the National Assembly, but he fought for such a decision in the Croatian Parliament; at home he eliminated the wider consensus, could not be justified or felt any, or constitutional or political need for such a step. If Pahor's government were convinced of the correctness and credibility of its decisions and had good arguments for its decisions, it would also lead to procedures in the domestic political field by leading to the greatest national political consensus, since good political solutions are not easy to block or reject - not domestically, not externally. A responsible political party would be obliged to support a quality proposal. Perhaps a smaller political group could afford such a discourse, but certainly not the largest: not because of prestige, but even less because of the fate of the decision. However, if the strength of government arguments is weak, political evasiveness is understandable, the search for a broader political consensus is undesirable and difficult and the fear of a two-thirds vote is justified. Ignoring the legal profession which opposes the agreement and which is in the vast majority has reached a climax. The puffed-up "I'm right and not them" statements just follow the sudden revelation of Prime Minister Pahor last summer. Accepting the consequences that arbitration may bring is also not something that interests Pahor. Either way, this will take over the people by making a decision at the referendum. Therefore, Pahor’s laying down responsibility for others is also understandable. The President of the Government wants to lose his mark despite his poor work. And that's why there's been a government question at the Constitutional Court. But the question of what? Not the entire arbitration agreement, as we would expect, but only one, this is the third point of the arbitration agreement and its compliance with Article 4 of the Constitution in conjunction with the second chapter, the Basic Constitutional Charter, by reducing the demands and needs of Slovenia to "junction", which means the following - to draw the borders of the Slovenian Sea under the rules of international law, will form a sea cage in which Slovenia will be captured. And such a "junction" if I try to show it more plasticly and with freedom it also has birds trapped in a cage. But there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no We are all in a difficult position, including the Constitutional Court. That is also why such caution and the suggestion of the Constitutional Court. Regardless of how we judge and assess their decision, something is clear: they estimate that the arbitral decision is likely to be such that it requires a change of constitution and that constitutional judges recommend that the constitution be amended in advance before the arbitration begins. Thus, the highest judicial institution is also aware of the consequences of the stormy and unimaginable decisions of Pahor. These will be very painful for Slovenia. The arbitration agreement does not take into account the principle of external justice, which would at all allow for an equity exit to the open sea, but does not take into account the circumstances on the day of independence and so on. The consequences of the arbitration are also noted by 90% of the legal profession and therefore they oppose the arbitration agreement, and a large part of the former Constitutional Judges oppose it. In the view of the Constitutional Court, it will therefore be necessary to amend the Constitution, preferably preventively, just in case. It is already clear to every average citizen what this means. And one more thing, once again, we will have to vote on Slovenian territory with two thirds of all Members - once we change the constitution. Unfortunately, this will be when it is too late and the failure of Pahor's political suit will no longer be rectified. The Constitutional Judges told us very directly what the agreement would not bring or what it would take. Perhaps it is also clear to the President of the Government, although for the sake of the money he speaks otherwise. But we don't deserve Slovenians like that. We have already paid enough tax on the northern and western borders, there is no need to pay it now at the southern border, not because of any criminal external decision, but because of the mistakes of our own government. The other decisions of the Pahor coalition are not accidental. The Court of Arbitration will not act until after Croatia's entry into the European Union, which means that the decision will be put far into the future, in the following mandates, as will these government suites. The clock proposed by Pahor’s team clearly shows that it is aware of the consequences of its work and does not want to take any responsibility for it. The debate in the National Assembly was also limited. For a fundamental and fatal decision, the coalition has allocated only one minute to each Member for discussion, which is only half of the time the Member has available to explain his vote and only one fifth of the time available for discussion at any point in the agenda. The serious debate was prevented and we also obstructed the debate on the arbitration agreement. Pahor's government and coalition are afraid of the debate, they don't want it, so they're obstructing the debate in every way possible. It is likely that opponents of the arbitration agreement will similarly take part in the referendum campaign. The government rushes where it's not necessary. The arbitration agreement can be set aside by all those decisions that the Slovenians separate, a series such as deleted, homosexual adoption of children, increases in court salaries, human resources cleansing and political settings in the supervisory board, the abolition of free lunches for students, spending, clientistic decisions, political coverage of Kresal, Golobič, Zalar, Križanič and other passengers. And the government is late where urgent and effective measures are needed: economic and tax reforms, de-de-barcation, incentives and economic development measures, the so-called exit strategy, calls for European funds, regional policy, investments and so on. In this area, we are waiting for the results of Angela Merkl and others in the European Union. And along with the government talks about how actions that are not and are not from anywhere have been taken and started to produce results. Something about this was also said in the introduction by the President of the Government, and this is probably the wrong world. The problem also arises in the referendum campaign. Under the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, accounts should be opened 45 days before the referendum. This can no longer be done. And we are also wondering how we are going to proceed with these procedures, whether we are going to break the laws or, in fact, that is only an additional obstacle to the opposition in carrying out the referendum campaign. It is said that she will have to go on a campaign without money, without funds, and the government will do so in a different way. I think that very much attention should also be given to this area and to the chapters on the referendum campaign, which is governed by the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. We will support the call for a referendum in order to explain why it is necessary to vote against and vote against it because the arbitration agreement does not allow for a direct territorial exit to the open sea. Croatia, as I have already said, adopted a special declaration at the time of ratification stating: Nothing in the agreement on arbitration between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be considered to be Croatia's landing at the request of Slovenia after territorial contact with the open sea. Another time. The Arbitration Agreement requires judges to draw the border between Slovenia and Croatia first under international law and then to determine the contact and not the territorial exit to the open sea. Third time. The arbitration agreement will thus, at best, enable Slovenia to serve or unharmed transition from the divided Piran Bay through the Croatian territorial sea to international waters. Fourth time. The Arbitration Agreement provides that the Judges shall begin to establish the border only after the Croatian signature of the Accession Treaty with the European Union, which means that the consequences of the Agreement will only be demonstrated within the mandate of the next Government and after Croatia's entry into the European Union. The Arbitration Agreement does not respect the principle of external justice, which was agreed between all parliamentary parties in Slovenia in 2007. This principle would allow judges to take into account primarily the historical circumstances that left more than 120,000 Slovenians in Italy after World War II. There, too, Trst and Gorica remained, while Croatia regained its entire national territory and much of Istria, which has never been its own in history. Six. The arbitration agreement threatens Slovenia's national interest in the part where it is based on the strategic importance of the port of Koper, which enables Slovenia and other countries in Central Europe to cooperate intensively. It's a week. The Slovenian Government, which signed the agreement without coordinating and informing the professional public and the opposition, then confirmed it to the Member for just a minute in the debate by a simple majority of votes, divided us and disputed by an arbitration agreement. Instead of having to face the opposition of the neighbouring country in a uniform manner, we are fighting each other and at the same time we are forced to choose only between more or less bad decisions. Eight. The implementation of the arbitration agreement with the majority support in the referendum can objectively lead to a blockade on the ratification of Croatia's accession treaty with the European Union, as the overwhelming majority of Slovenian elections and voters support the demand for an indisputable and fair definition of our southern border before Croatia's entry into the European Union. Nine. It is not true that national borders with Croatia's entry into the European Union will lose their importance. With the country's entry into the European Union, only customs control will be lifted and the border will remain under control until Croatia enters the Schengen system. Then it will have to wait very long, most likely until all the Western Balkan countries enter the European Union. Ten years. Rejecting the arbitration agreement at the referendum will not make Slovenia's negotiating position worse, but will, on the contrary, strengthen it. In the near past, the European Union has already survived more important rejection referendums for it. But she's always found new and more acceptable solutions. Eleventh time. At the referendum we will decide on the issue of our southern and maritime borders, Slovenian territory and the Slovenian sea. This decision will be more important than usual political decisions and more important than elections every four years. The confirmation of the arbitration agreement at the referendum would permanently close Slovenia's territorial access to the open sea. We could never change it again. That is why we will definitely take part in the referendum and also vote against it. Of course, in the event that the arbitration agreement is adopted, however, it would indicate that if you read the first piece of Gregorčič's song "The Captured Bird's Complaint", which says, "Oh, the earth, the vast earth is beautiful, you were all my property. Now the tight cage locks me up when I'm trapped in a miserable trap." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Ministers, Honourable Colleagues and Fellows. At today's extraordinary session, at which we will confirm the Decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on an arbitration agreement, there is a great unity between Members and Members, since, under the request for a referendum, sixty Members and Members have signed themselves, although some are opposed to the arbitration agreement itself. In this unity, we show a responsible attitude towards the Institute of the Legislative Referendum, which we rarely witness to. And in the view of the Group of Members, it is only right that citizens and citizens of Slovenia decide on such important matters as an arbitration agreement. In the coalition contract, the Coalition has set itself a task to work towards resolving outstanding issues with Croatia as soon as possible, and we are following this task. We have written that we will come from cultivating trust and good-neighbourly relations in solving real problems. We are also on the right track in this task, as the Government has shown confidence and is taking steps towards improving good neighbourly relations. We also stated in the Coalition Treaty that the starting point for resolving open border issues on land and sea will be put on a state-of-the-art basis on 25 June 1991. That's what we've achieved. And we have also written that we will encourage the start of the work of the mixed diplomatic commission, which is to make proposals to both governments for content and decision-making in the final regulation of the border on land and at sea, taking due account of the principle of justice. This justice is now recorded and described under special circumstances in the agreement itself. Indeed, we are and are still committed to consistency and perseverance in the conduct of foreign policy and the exercise of interests based on respect for sovereign equality of countries and international law. We are also committed to a peaceful settlement of disputes, which can only be achieved through dialogue, dialogue and once again dialogue, which must be reasonable and just for both sides, and in particular that there is no agreement under the table. In fact, she stated in her programme that she would also consistently advocate that relations with neighbours should determine three factors. These are: respect for fundamental standards of cooperation in international relations, where countries respect each other as equal members of the international community, where they recognise each other's sovereign rights and cooperate in different areas and where mutual problems resolve patiently and in dialogue; concern for the problems faced by people in the border area and sensitivity to their interests. Slovenia is and must require all its neighbours to act justly and duly. In this regard, Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, has a particularly important responsibility, since by accepting new members, in this case Croatia, it creates a strengthening of integration. Indeed, it has always stressed that the construction of the image of relations with Croatia did not correspond to reality. We stand firm in the view that, in some cases, failure to resolve open problems was still due to mistrust between the countries which became everyday after the failure to accept the Drnovšek-Racan agreement. As I mentioned earlier, in Really, we believe that we are slowly going beyond this and that we are opening a new chapter in our relations with Croatia, where there will be more space for cooperation between young people on both sides of the border, more common environmental and economic projects and projects in the field of science. This lack of confidence, systematically disseminated by Croatian and Slovenian actors, must also be overcome by a decision at the arbitration agreement referendum. The Arbitration Agreement significantly improves the starting points and all the arrangements previously adopted in the context of the intervention of the third arbitrator, including the 2007 Blej Agreement at the time of the Janša Government, which envisaged the resolution of the dispute at the Interstate Court in The Hague. The agreement at the time was and is indeed unacceptable for the party, and in particular part of the agreement on the Interstate Court in The Hague. In order to discuss this at Bled, we can understand from the meeting of Pahor-Sanader in Mokricah, when Prime Minister Sanader was confident and advocated the Haag scenario. From the so-called monument to the resolution of the Slovenian-Croatian border, which SDS leader Janez Janša published on SDS’s website, we were able to understand the right agreement on The Hague scenario. This agreement or agreement, if implemented, could in fact threaten Slovenia's vital interests, as it would be difficult to record the application of the principle of justice in the Hague scenario. Such practice proves that it would be unlikely that the Court in The Hague would actually decide on the principle of external justice. Apparently, it didn't matter to John Janša at the time. Today, however, this principle, which is legally defined in Article 4 of the Agreement, neither sees nor wants to see. At Janša's monument, which, according to our colleague Iv Vaigle of Zares, was an attempt to justify the indisputable fact that no progress had been made in resolving the issues with Croatia in the last four years, when Prime Minister Janez Janša and Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel had been quoted in 2007 as referring to Sanader and the official Zagreb at the meeting of Pahor-Sanader, when Croatia rejected a constructive solution to the problem without intervention by the European Union. This was indeed unacceptable for the party and it should be unacceptable, not least for SDS leader Janez Janša, if of course we understand what he is saying today. That the agreement is in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and with the Basic Constitutional Charter, the Constitutional Court confirmed and recorded in its opinion. Attempts to re-evaluate or interpret this opinion are extremely unworthy and have been heard in this room today. That's why it's better to stick to the facts. And the fact is that the conclusion of the border dispute is in the interest of all, in the interests of both countries, in the interests of their citizens and citizens, economies, the expansion of our markets, stability in the region, peace and cooperation, the quality of life of people at the border and, of course, in the interest of the credibility and reputation of Slovenia in Europe and in relation to the entire Western Balkans. Anyone who does not wish to do so will find and will come up with a thousand and one reason to vote against the arbitration agreement at the referendum. At the same time, ask yourself the question: What future does the two countries in the region want? Do we not want to create effective, modern, transport routes between countries? In the context of the global crisis, do we not want to achieve greater and richer tourist meals on both sides of the border? With the blockades, one after the other, do we want to stop negotiations with which the free movement of goods, people and services would apply to both countries? Is it closer for us to decide whether to "don't buy Slovenian" or "don't buy Croatian"? This is not the case in the European Union and there are many advantages for Slovenian citizens and citizens, for the Slovenian economy resulting from Croatia's full membership in the European Union and from respect for European legislation and common standards. At the invitation of this referendum, we must also point out the fact that citizens and citizens will not decide on the passage of an interstate border on land or on the sea, not on the flow or the marking of a border, which, despite the fundamental constitutional instruments, has been interpreted so differently for nineteen years. Citizens and citizens will decide, in particular, on the initiation of an arbitration procedure with an international body whose composition has been determined equally, in the terms and conditions that we have finally entered into an arbitration agreement after long negotiations during the European Union's mediation and after an unfortunate one-year standstill which has harmed everyone. The Zares Group supported and ratified the arbitration agreement and thus contributed to the cessation of long-standing tensions and the sowing of hatred, which in both countries benefit only partial interests and internal political accounting of some. However, we need to know that we are still at the beginning of the journey. A path that will be long and will not end with the approval of an arbitration agreement at the referendum. That is why we are already calling on all citizens and citizens of Slovenia to participate in the referendum and to end the long-standing tensions between countries that are most damaging to citizens and citizens of both countries by their vote for the arbitration agreement. Imagine a good relationship between neighbors. Imagine developing a country that you see in a few years, and ask yourself how we can achieve greater prosperity in the region. We really think with a vote in favour of an arbitration agreement. And that's it. How can one claim that the debate on the arbitration agreement has been prevented? We'll talk about it for almost nine hours today. And that's right. That's what we think in the client really. Just, please, stop talking about obstructing the debate. The one who said that before me spoke for 30 minutes about everything possible and not just about the arbitration agreement. Well, maybe that's what it was like to talk about anything and not just an arbitration agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The territorial borders are one of the constructive elements of an independent and independent country. They are the fundamental substance of the state's sovereignty. This was also realized by the founder and was therefore determined by the national boundaries which he could set at the time of the adoption of the Basic Constitutional Charter in the second section. In doing so, he set only the national land border with Croatia as a border between the republics within the former Yugoslavia. It was not possible to determine the boundary at sea because it did not exist and does not exist today. The decision of the arbitral tribunal to be adopted on the basis of an arbitration agreement is likely to supplement the Basic Constitutional Charter by establishing a maritime border. Until the Constitutional Court delivered its opinion on an arbitration agreement, it was considered that the essential difference between the maritime and land borders between countries was that the maritime area under the sovereignty of one State or another had never been determined between them in the way that it applied to land. In its opinion on the Arbitration Agreement, the Constitutional Court has upgraded the position so far on the basis of which, according to the principle of "Uti posidetis", the land border is constitutionally protected where the border between the republics was established within the framework of the former Yugoslavia. The border at sea is the line to which Slovenia exercised effective authority to the open sea prior to its independence. With that view, the Constitutional Court has therefore put its position, "on the head", and also the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to which the Government considers that the arbitration agreement is not inconsistent with the Basic Constitutional Charter, i.e. the Constitution, since the boundary at sea has never been established. It also derogated, therefore, from the position adopted by the Constitutional Court in its assessment of the constitutionality of the so-called Spanish compromise, when it was also an abstract situation which could have arisen if Slovenia had to amend its legislation after ratification, which, according to the Constitutional Court, would have been inconsistent with Article 68 of the Constitution. The judgment of the arbitral tribunal will therefore be able to derogate from the borderline between Slovenia and Croatia, as set out in the Basic Constitutional Charter and with it constitutionally due to the principle of 'uti Posedetis' as well as to international legal protection. The arbitration agreement shall be a procedural document. As such, it merely prescribes how and how the court will decide on the content and poses an excessive risk to Slovenia. One of the fundamental shortcomings of this agreement, in our view, is that Slovenia has no guarantee that it will have a territorial contact with international waters in the future or that we will access international waters through the Slovenian territorial sea and not through the Croatian sea at some, according to the local word, service. The provisions on how long the arbitration will last, and in particular the fact that all the deadlines in the agreement begin to run after the accession treaty has been signed by Croatia, cancel the important negotiating advantages and, above all, the fact that we are a full member of the European Union, and that is what Croatia wants to become. Believe that when Croatia is in the European Union, no one in international politics will be interested in what is happening in the border dispute between the two Balkan states, and only then will the story of our rights be lost forever. I certainly don't understand where we're in such a hurry, even at the cost of damaging vital strategic interests. First of all, it is necessary for the international public to explain at all the core of the dispute and the reasons why certain rights and territories that international law cannot solve are historically ours. It is the landing for a resolution under international law, which is explicitly stated in point 3.A, that is the realization of the wish of the opposite party. Last but not least, Slovenia, historically speaking, has always had territorial access to the open sea. According to our assessment, the arbitration agreement does not guarantee this. If I recall, a good year ago, we have already given up since by adopting the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the protection of Slovenian interests, it showed that we Slovenians have finally begun to realize that we must defend what is ours with determination and confidence. If I had known that we would be discussing in this Chamber in a year about when to go to a referendum and confirm or reject an arbitration agreement, I would be deeply concerned. How easy it is for Slovenians to barter with their own territory. It's like we haven't fought hard for centuries or centuries. Awful. The proposed arbitration agreement is weak and harmful for Slovenia and should therefore be rejected at the referendum. Slovenia does not provide an adequate and fair solution and thus threatens the vital Slovenian national interests, which means, among other things, that we will most likely lose the sea, the territorial contact of Slovenia with international waters, the status of the maritime state and could also list. In the Slovenian People's Party, we truly regret that we place the burden on citizens and citizens of such complex but important issues as border decision-making. But the well-respected government and members of the coalition, you haven't offered us any other options. The arbitration agreement is a whole product of some individuals in the government. In its creation, the entire legal profession, the interested professional public and the rest of the policy were ignored. That is why we will, of course, support the proposed resolution on the call for a referendum in the Slovenian People's Party. For we were the first political party to have announced such a referendum in the event of an inadequate solution. At least we are pleased that, at this point, the policy has gathered so much power that the arbitration agreement is being sent by consensus to the people. Even though it's late, it's not too late. At the referendum, people have the opportunity to reject the arbitration agreement and to prove that no one has the right to make a choice on his own to the detriment of Slovenian territory and the sea. Slovenia has been harmed too many times in its history. Therefore, we will not allow this to happen again in the Slovenian People's Party. And we are firmly against the arbitration agreement. We hope and wish that voters and voters in the referendum will decide as is the case for our country, our territorial integrity and sovereignty, and especially for future generations of Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Before I give the floor to the first debater, I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Samuel Žbogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. After this discussion, I think it is right to answer some of the questions or comment on some of the arguments that have been discussed. First, the government’s decision or proposal for a referendum took precedence over responsibility, the government or the coalition either failed to accept its own responsibility. For the first time, I would like to recall that the Government did not insist on the referendum that the Government has assumed its responsibility and adopted the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement. That the coalition in the National Assembly had adopted the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement and that we had come to a debate on the referendum only when the opposition insisted that the referendum would be, when the signatures had already been collected, and in that case, the Government or the President of the Government thought that it was better to go to the referendum together than separately, that at least as regards the referendum's invitation, we should show unity. So much for the referendum. Then, with regard to the arbitration agreement and why the arbitration agreement is good for Slovenia in all that has already been said. Firstly, I think it is necessary to conclude that once we know that we cannot agree on something bilaterally, what I think we have realized, at least at this point in time, that we cannot agree on a border issue with Croatia, and to avoid war as a second option, of course, we are left with only the third aid. And that's what we're doing. And since the arbitration agreement brings this lasting solution to the border dispute in a fair manner, I think the arbitration agreement is good. The arbitration agreement is good because it terminates the harmful status quo on the ground. This status quo, which has been constantly being repaired by Croatia over the past 19 years, is what we are all talking about. And this agreement with a single article removes all these changes in the last 19 years and restores the situation to 25 June 1991. Next, I think the agreement is good because Slovenia ensures that the open sea is kept in contact and ensures the development of the port of Koper. I'd say that's because there was a speech here. The agreement does not refer to the right of contact, the agreement does not mean that the court should decide whether Slovenia has the right to contact the open sea. Nor did the Court have the question proposed to us by an international lawyer who advised the previous government to ask the court whether Slovenia has a territorial exit to the open sea. The agreement speaks of Slovenia having a contact that the court must only determine. And that's why I think he's good. The word is taken from the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, which will be sufficient for the court, I think, a reason to direct it in the right direction. Also in judicial and judicial and contractual practice, this "junction" provides for territorial contact between two watercourses or two borders at sea. And that's why we have cases that I'd like to make. Why is the agreement good? Since the Court will judge on the basis of all relevant circumstances of geographical, historical and other circumstances. I agree with Mr Tank, who says that for Croatia this is a prestigious question, that for Slovenia this is a life issue. It's a matter of vital importance. Therefore, you will probably agree that it is a great success for Slovenia to give direction to the court to take into account these life interests of the countries for which we have all found together that they relate mainly to Slovenia. The agreement is certainly good because it strengthens cooperation with neighbouring Croatia in all areas or allows once we remove this heavy burden from the table when we resolve the border issue, it allows for the development of relations with the Republic of Croatia in all other areas. And these are relations that are important for the inhabitants on both sides of the border and are important for the development of Slovenia. Why is he good? Because it's probably our last chance to keep in touch with the high seas. The agreement speaks of contact with the high seas and the question is whether we can ever reach such an agreement again. Slovenia is a member of the European Union and Croatia wants to become a member of the European Union, and this agreement would not be without these two facts. Those who negotiated the agreement under the Hague agreement know exactly that Croatia did not agree to any of the matters at that time. She didn't even land on June 25th and the status quo at sea. But all she talked about was the status quo on the ground or on the territory, because it was their only place where the boundaries were valid. By no means did she agree to the principle of righteousness, and not to the internal one, nor to the external one, nor to the forum, nor to anything else. I think that the only fact that Slovenia is a member and Croatia wants to become a member of the European Union as a first priority has led to this agreement. And I think this is the last chance that this contact can be maintained or then recorded in a bilateral agreement. Above all, I think this agreement is important because it strengthens peace and co-existence along the border and because it is a reasonable agreement and because it is good for people at the border, for people on both sides of the border and for Slovenia and for Croatia. That's what I'd like to do at this point and then maybe later on some other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Janja Klasinc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today in this National Assembly we are discussing the issue of an arbitration agreement for the third time. Third time at a meeting of the National Assembly. We did this once behind closed doors at an extraordinary session, we did it twice in open sessions. At all stages of the formation of this Agreement, the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is the parent body of this National Assembly, discussed this issue seven times with today's meeting. The Foreign Minister was present at all the meetings. At three meetings, the President of the Government was with us at all three meetings of the National Assembly, and he was also the President of the Government at three meetings of the Foreign Policy Committee. And then we hear the evidence that continues to appear today from the opposition that this coalition was restricting the debate. Yeah, sorry, but if there's not enough ten-hour meetings to exchange views on our views and try to find a common language, then I really don't know what it would take. But of course, the rabbit is probably stuck in the other bush. The opposition claims that it was different under the previous government that the current opposition, the current coalition, was more involved. When? How? Maybe in closed sessions, in informal meetings? Let's just look at one fact. The Flemish Agreement was agreed on 26 August 2007. Before that, the authorities responsible for the debate on such issues in this National Assembly have never discussed such issues, either by the Committee on Foreign Policy or by the Committee on European Affairs. Do you know when they first discussed the Bled Agreement? On 17 April 2008, eight months after the Bled agreement, the President of the Government briefed the MPs, Janez Janša, on what he was talking about and what further steps could be taken. If you think that this is a regular communication of the opposition and the end of the coalition, then I really don't know what to think. Comrade Žerjav just said, "Where are we in a hurry?" I don't understand. Do you think nineteen years is a short time to answer one question? Are we really in a hurry to resolve the question after nineteen years? Otherwise, the President of the Government himself made clear what further delay would mean. It can happen to us that the facts will be revealed. And here I admit that Croatia has actually been more skilled in the last nineteen years in some of its expansions to our territory, but what if the situation remains serious? What's the hurry? If we want to realize our vital interests, we're in a hurry. The truth about all these comments is, of course, that the opposition does not have the right arguments. Why do I say that? Because today, in all the introductions of the opposition parliamentary parties, I have not heard any real arguments as to what could be done. See, claims that Luka Koper will be blocked, claims that we will lose Slovenian territory through this arbitration agreement. This is a complete misdirection to the public. Both States parties to this Agreement have not yet appointed judges, arbitrators. We don't even know who's gonna make that decision. Our opposition already knows how these x people will decide. That doesn't make any sense. Let's go to Croatia. You keep saying how the agreement is in favour of Croatia and how it was accepted by a two-thirds majority in Parliament. We are well aware of the difficulties in this acceptance and conviction if Croatia did not stand before it has to enter the European Union and that this agreement is one of the conditions for it to become a full-fledged member of the European Union, of course we would not do so. And so there was an agreement with the opposition, which is obviously more constructive in the Croatian Parliament than in our Parliament. In fact, experts, both Croatian and other foreign experts in international law, find that this agreement is quite favoured by Slovenia. And let's not forget, at the last meeting of the National Assembly, when we discussed this, I warned that the most visible Croatian international lawyers, Dr. Rudolf, Dr. Ibler, Dr. Vidac, had signed a petition against this arbitration agreement arguing that it was too written in favour of Slovenia. And not only do they find this, but they also identify other international lawyers, our foreign ministry - of course, this memorandum and other preparation for arbitration not only works with domestic experts, but also with foreign experts. And speaking of experts, which of the international lawyers is against it? Just Dr. Pavlich. Just Dr. Pavlich. Everyone else, I respect, some of the opponents of this agreement are visible legal names, but not in the field of international law. While international lawyers, Dr. Türk, Dr. Škrk, Dr. Sancin, are also our domestic international lawyers, who are also established in Europe and ultimately Minister Vlačič is among them, they say that this agreement is favourable for Slovenia. We have concerns not only about lawyers who are not experts in international law, but also about some other intellectuals. Among them are some of my good friends, some of my friends, some of whom I appreciate. But I'm sorry, when I don't care what I know when my kidneys hurt, I go to the urologist's doctor, I don't go to the optics, the eye specialist. I'm going to see a specialist, and that's why I believe specialists more, that's called international lawyers than some general lawyers. I would also like to say that I am in favour of an arbitration agreement because it undoubtedly determines the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. He's not asking whether we have the right or we don't have the right. We have a right, I'll determine where this contact is going to be. Then my second reason for supporting it is that this principle of justice, which is very controversial in international law, is not only that it is not often established, it has only been twice, but it has another problem. That it may be established only if it is agreed upon by both parties in a dispute. This is of interest to me when Slovenia could achieve that Croatia would also agree to this principle of justice. This principle of fairness is described in this Agreement. In short, Slovenia will be able to apply its historical, social, economic and all other circumstances with this agreement, of course Croatia. And I think that this lack of confidence in these arguments, which is waging in the opposition, is actually a mistrust in our right. While in the coalition we are convinced that the Slovenians are right and that we will win. That is why I absolutely support this arbitration agreement and also the referendum, because in the coming month people will have the opportunity to hear all the arguments for and against and to make a smart decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the agenda, we have a decree on the legislative referendum, where citizens are to decide on the fate of the arbitration agreement. So far, we have talked a little bit about this decision, a little bit about the referendum, but a lot about the agreement itself. So let me begin by giving at least a few opening words to the referendum itself. I am among those few Members who have not signed these initiatives, because I do not think that this topic and decision on such an agreement is part of the referendum. For a month we will be witnesses to controversy, including hot, emotionally charged discussions about whether the so-called arbitration agreement is real or not. Slovenia will polarise, opinions will radicalise. We can expect him not to overcome race, not to overcome strong arguments or professional arguments, but to be overcome again by a campaign of such or other emotions. Whenever there is a debate on the border after nineteen years of this unresolved issue, it is irrational and the arguments that result either from international law or from political logic or from European practice are suppressed. They remain in the background somewhere, but there are arguments that have little in common with rationality. Therefore, we can now expect a tense month, which I hope will remain within the framework of civilized dialectic despite the hot topic and where we will not hear again the various accusations of treason or the sale of national interests. Some of these words have already been uttered in some of the introductions in the National Assembly. I think that if we're going to the referendum, we should put a dot on the i and bet to say bob. This means that we must avoid misinformation first. There's a lot of misinformation. I have already listened today to the long introduction of an esteemed colleague, Mr Tank, a representative of the SDS, for example, some such misinformation. One of these was when he said [[I'm literally quoting]] : "The further partialization of the Piran Bay will interfere with free navigation from Luka Koper to the open sea." This is one of those completely wrong information. An unprecedented sightseeing of the map and basic geography tells us that the Bay of Piran is far from the waterways that lead from Luka Koper to the open sea. So, the so-called "further partialisation of the Piran Bay" has nothing to do with this, of course. It's not about the partialization of the Piran Bay, it's probably about setting a limit. The current state, status quo, means that pirate fishermen today don't know where they can fish, where they can fish. All they know is that if they go south of the central border of the Gulf of Piran, it's a risky act, because there's usually a patrol boat from the Uma police station. That's why they're avoiding it. And that's the de facto state. De jure, in our opinion, no, but de facto so. The second question is, can we, in the current state and current status quo, have the sea to the so-called point 5, that is, to the open sea junction? Can we implement, implement what we have written down, think that in 2005 or before in a law setting out the ecological fishing zone of the Republic of Slovenia, somewhere up to the height of the Vrsar? Can we have that waterfront? The answer is no. Our police don't sail to point 5. Our police remain where it was agreed from the time of the previous government. And to avoid incidents, we know exactly that instructions have been given to keep our police north of the central border of the Gulf of Piran and prevent them from sailing to point 5 or to the open sea to avoid incidents. It's just the way things are. Why am I stressing this? Because we can go to the referendum and most of us can vote against the arbitration agreement. And what will that accomplish? We will achieve that everything remains as it is today, including the ramp they are lifting. According to the numerous combinations determined by the Croatian police, which raise only the inhabitants of Škril or Mlinov, or the pawn on the left bank of Dragonje, where Mr Joras also resides. As you know, the actual jurisdiction on the left bank of Dragonje has been exercised since 1991 since that date by the Croatian police. That's a fact. When we found that the resulting border or the resulting checkpoint or control line did not match the cadastral borders, we supported the issue of actual jurisdiction or jurisdiction that should be enforced in that area. How? All the ways have turned out to be barren as ineffective. Note, incidents, even a purpose that was never realized to send some police unit to the other side of Dragonje, the police themselves prevented it because they knew she had never done it, and it was impossible. So, the only way to establish the thesis on the cadastral borders is in arbitration. Only there with the documentation we have at our disposal will it be possible, if possible, to actually change something. And by arbitration alone, it will be possible to establish such a maritime boundary, which will also provide Slovenia with official and internationally recognized what Slovenia considers to be its inalienable right. This is contact with the high seas, contact with international waters. I fully agree with what the President of the Government has said today. I do not agree with just one point; when he expressed his conviction that a fair limit could be reached. Look, there's no fair borders, there's boundaries and there's no end. The borders divide, limit the sovereignty of one country, separate peoples, nations, even the same nations sometimes and even families. This is what happens in Istria, even in families. The border is never fair, but it becomes criminal when countries begin to manipulate it and not the state, but politics begins to manipulate it to ensure a better political position at home. And this has been happening for nineteen years now by Dragonja and also elsewhere between Slovenia and Croatia. We are witnessing the endless stories of misunderstandings, mistrust, and even hatred. The border, which was once an interrepublic line that meant nothing to people living along the border and living in Istria, has now become a potential border of hatred. That is why arbitration is necessary. It is necessary to stop this long story, which has already been a big one, that has over-toxified inter-neighbour relations, which poisons the political atmosphere at the border and, of course, preserves some status quo, where some may profit, but most do not. But most people don't. And who's profiting from the current situation? Look, I walk with my son every week at that border. I like it very much, especially the way that leads from our border crossing to the museum of solitaire. This is about three miles [3 km] of macadamia along the channel of St. I recommend this walk for everyone and let them look the other way. What are they gonna see? They'll see some kind of no-one's land where everything happens. And you know, that part on the left bank of Dragonje is an integral part of the Sečovlje salt landscape park. Believe it or not, the Sečovlje salts and landscape park extend beyond the current actual borders. But because there is no jurisdiction, because we cannot protect that belt, Croats do not protect it environmentally, because they do not want to get too involved, interfere in health, in microlocal health. Because it's a politically sensitive thing. That belt, in that belt today, is ruled by insubordination and therefore possible black construction, is a possible breach of legislation that would have been in force if one or another country had exercised its jurisdiction there. So it is a shame to see such wild constructions sometimes produced that have nothing to do with the landscape park. Ask who they are and who has an interest in maintaining this irregular state, this non-jurisdiction in that territory. So please, we are not talking about great principles, we are talking about specific interests, also about the private interests of some, who, of course, then proclaim great principles as the only guide. I have heard such pathetic cries and calls that I have heard for 19 years from people who probably don't feel because they're not even born there in fact and they don't feel the significance and diversity of that part of Istria, I don't believe. That's why the only way is safe. It's the deal. Slovenia and Croatia have tried several times on a bilateral path to reach a compromise, they have failed because they have always intervened either the opposition or the profession, which is highly politicised. Earlier, a colleague of Klasincheva mentioned the opposition of Mr Rudolf, Ibler, Vidas, including the Bulgarian Conferences of Croatia, the parties to the law, one part of the Umag fishermen, those who essentially constitute the party's shock force under this agreement. Well, that's very eloquent, too, you know. This says a lot about who is actually opposed to the final border agreement. Those who can do so in one way or another, or politically or financially. At the time the work of the two mixed commissions ended, the diplomatic ones determined by the government on the one hand and on the other by the Bled Agreement on the Hague Court, look at the fragment, Rudolf also left. And today there are petitions against this agreement. On the other hand, his colleague is also at the head of those who oppose this agreement. So, it means the deal's good. It's the right way, it's the middle way. Not the middle one after the Piran Bay. But it is a path that respects international law at the same time. And please, I recommend that we do not criminalise international law, because under international law there is also the Republic of Slovenia as an independent, sovereign and independent state. And thanks to one good arbitration, one good judge, Mr Badinteri, we have at international level what we have. And that's why I wouldn't violate international law. But in this agreement, it must be acknowledged that there is also an inevitable political will in international law to deal with all other circumstances. And even, of course, the arbitrators will probably find it a little strange, but if they accept it, they will have to implement this, written contact of the Slovenian sea with the open sea. So you see how many elements that speak in favour of this arbitration will have to be made clear to people what they will vote on and why, if we do not vote in favour of the arbitration agreement, we will stand where we are. Croatia will go to the European Union, because no one can imagine a new blockade, it would be pretty suicidal and, of course, everything could be relativised by coming to the European Union, but it is better that we have things set.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Minister, Mr. Vice President. On 6 June this year, the Slovenian people will write their own destiny, and at least this is the possibility that they will write it themselves, but not that it is written by a government coalition, which, like in many ways, is also at this point, I do not know why, but from some narrow interests they have done the worst that they can, of course, or what they can do in their history, however and for how long. The most important event for all generations now living will certainly be on June 6th, when we must go clearly and loudly to the referendum and round up the arbitration agreement. Those who say here today that Members will not set a limit, that the arbitration agreement does not set a limit and that we will not set a limit at the referendum are not true. You're simply deceiving the nation and not telling the truth. In short, you're just lying to him. The fact is that this arbitration agreement will set a limit. This is how our constitutional judges wrote down, and constitutional judges have written that, of course, it is original, that the border will be established in an arbitral court. However, a certain boundary in the arbitral tribunal has also been written by our Constitutional Judges that it will be necessary to amend Article 4 of the Constitution and even so far that even some have called on the National Assembly to do so even in advance, not later. Since the arbitration agreement makes commitments to countries so strong that it is simply no longer possible to decide on anything. Well, let's just look back a little history. See, at the end of World War I, the then City Council of Maribor decided to join Maribor in the Republic of Germany, Austria, that is to say the German Republic of Austria. Well, with this, Maister disagreed and gathered on November 23, 1918, disarmed the so-called green German guard. Today we would need another Maister to disarm this guard that has prepared this agreement, but we don't have the Maisters. However, we have a referendum and the Slovenian people will disarm with a referendum when they vote against this arbitration agreement, this current government guard. What will happen if the agreement is not reached? Nothing special is going to happen. We had a so-called European Constitution in Europe. Ireland did not confirm or reject it at the referendum. What happened? This constitution has changed or changed into a treaty and certain solutions to which they have been alerted, with which they have not agreed, have changed. What will happen to Croatia's entry into the European Union? Do you still remember - because I was already sitting in Parliament - when we had to accept the so-called Spanish compromise in about fifteen minutes or something? If it were not, it was threatened that negotiations for Slovenia's entry into the European Union would be halted. Even though we were in the opposition at the time, we confirmed this constitutional change, although it was some kind of "stress". Still, things kept going. In this case, the Slovenian people will simply say, as well as the Slovenian policy to Croatia and the European Union, that before the Republic of Slovenia gives a green light to Croatia's entry into the European Union, it will simply have to resolve the border with Slovenia. What does this mean, or what, do we want the Slovenians? Do Slovenians perhaps want a 1918 solution when we entered the so-called SHS, the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs with six countries: Styria, Koroško, Kranjsko, Goriška, Trieste and Istria? No, no, no. Although it was or is still the only valid border between Slovenia and Croatia with the then entry of those countries on the Mirna River. We don't want that. We didn't say that's what we wanted. But we simply want Croatia to withdraw from the occupied territories it occupied after 25 June 1991. So, until then and a while later, we ran certain checkpoints, both with Italy's T-5 and had access to the open sea with the Paris Treaty. Croatia has occupied our Slovenian territories. We don't want anything else. We will simply tell Croatia, see the green light from Slovenia to join the European Union when you withdraw to your former republican borders. And that's all. Is that too heavy? Is that too much? For the Slovenian nation, for the Slovenian land that we have always lost, both 20 at the referendum and always when others have set the border for us, i.e. some arbitrators. So we lost Primorsko, so we lost Koroška and so on. In short, with all the other countries, when the borders were established in the context of the then Yugoslavia or are thus established with Hungary under the Peace Treaty, with Austria under the Austrian State Treaty and with Italy under the 1975 Summer Agreement. Apart from Croatia, it is still from 1918, when we entered the so-called SHS country with these six countries. And the only way, so the only way, and the only solution, is from this problem, and that's why, in fact, the government coalition has decided, because it doesn't know how to swim out of a sinking ship, that it's going to go to a referendum and then it's going to be good, because we don't even blame you. [[...]] I am even pleased that between the Members and members of the government coalition, who, although with their eyes closed and their fists clenched for an arbitration agreement, voted here without opposition. And today, the Prime Minister pleads that this High Council has supported this arbitration agreement. However, he did not say that without the opposition, because she simply had no opportunity to oppose it, she expressed this in her obstruction. And that's just the worst way to protest when the opposition has to choose the method of obstruction. And I am glad that, in history, we had as important and proud people as Maister, because if these people were not, then today from the places from which I come, I would not speak in Slovenian or in our Styrian language, but would probably say "vei und zwei ist veer" as the President of the Government spoke to me here when he spoke about the floors of our 1980s and 1990s when they did not want to overlook Slovenia's vital interests and did not, of course, even consider whether he had any such vital interests ahead of him after 18 years of wanting to overlook some government coalition completely without the consensus of Slovenian politics. And if the government coalition has already overlooked these vital interests, then I am sure that the Slovenian people will not. This will give us a simple message, both to European policy and to Croatia, that we want nothing but to withdraw from them from the occupied Slovenian territories. And the Republic of Slovenia will control all those borders it controlled before 25. 6. 1991. We don't need an arbitral tribunal to do that either. It's not a big deal. The Croats should withdraw, even as recorded in the report of the Foreign Minister of Croatia, I do not know 92. or 93. that they can do so within two hours. But today they don't want to hear about it, and they don't want to hear about it. The historic task, opportunity and responsibility, because by being responsible for your country and after 14 centuries when the Slovenians exist in this territory, the Slovenian people will also show this time that they are responsible enough to correct what this government coalition has done and that they will go to the referendum and vote against the referendum against this arbitration agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable ministers. The neighbor put the border at our expense, of course. This territory has been in session for 19 years. Now we want an organ in Europe to tell us that the neighbor is really on our side and that it would be right for everyone to give in a little bit, and we must all be satisfied with that. Such logic would not satisfy any farmer in Slovenia who loves his territory, because otherwise he will lose his farm. Setting the border with Croatia is a problem that has been going on for too long. It lasts because someone made a mistake on their own, and they never took responsibility for it. Croatia wants to go to Europe, just as we wanted. Nobody's defending them. Let them go, but no Slovenian territory. They've been negotiating with us all the time with a fig in their pocket. Moreover, violence against citizens of Slovenia living at the border in the eyes of Slovenian diplomacy, who were not prepared or unable to agree and explain to their neighbours that they are in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In December, Mr Balažic, on behalf of the Government, stated that the arbitration agreement was the greatest success of diplomacy and refused to make the agreement worse for Slovenia. It was pointed out that it is not a question whether Slovenia has or does not have or will receive or will not receive an exit to the open sea. The Court will decide on the coordinates of Slovenia's physical contact with the open sea. When a politician responsible for the government's statements says that the content supporting Croatia in the talks is satisfactory, he could say that the Slovenian policy is in conflict with itself and works for the benefit of the neighbouring country of Croatia. When the ruling policy boasts that such an action has shown that they are on the line of European values and that the risk is necessary, I note that this thinking is a minority, which will prove to be in the referendum. For such risks were already too great, for every such decision we lost part of the territory. Pursuing into something that already does not give us the expected success is a bit irresponsible, but at the same time rejecting Dr Bučar's proposal, which proposed an international conference under the legacy of the former SFRJ. This proposal has been rejected as unprofessional by reasoning that in a democratic country, everyone can give their own opinion. And it sounded like that opinion was given by elementary school students and invisible deserving experts and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is argued that Slovenia is a self-evident territorial state, that Slovenian waters are connected to territorial waters. And that's what connects us to the word contact with the open sea. And that's supposed to be enough. Look, it just doesn't hold. This is misleading yourself and the entire Slovenian public. According to former President Milan Kučan, that no one should take away the rights arising from independence when we had a free way out into the open sea is to support us, but not with the content offered by the Government, because in this case it is likely that only those who are aware of this will be aware of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I myself will support the proposal for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That is why I myself have contributed a signature to the invitation to tender for this referendum. I see this referendum as an extremely important decision, which will be needed at this time, because given the number of signatures, there is no doubt today that support for this referendum will be given widely. However, when we expect people to respond to the fundamental question, of course we need to be aware that we will be able to present to them the exact content of what they will decide. And they will decide whether and in what way Slovenia and Croatia propose to regulate the issue of land border and maritime borders. So a question that they couldn't deal with together in eighteen years. I think the old human rule says it's extremely good to have a good neighbor. And the initiatives that have been given from these sides in the last period are actually going in this direction. So, building good neighbourly relations also on the most difficult issues that actually separate people living in those countries that separate both countries. What this agreement brings will surely be a time for discussion in the coming month, or in what way it will be settled, a certain solution to this issue. However, it is right here today to admit that, in fact, the solution ahead of us is the solution that has come the longest, and it is actually a continuation of what has already been done in the past. And it was found that the State itself, despite the fact that this arbitration agreement allows the two countries to still resolve this issue through mediation at some stage before the arbitrators make a final decision to take this decision to the satisfaction of both sides. But of course, experience shows that in the past it was not possible to reach this point. And the country and, of course, today's opposition SDS is talking about how the way is not right. But it is important to remember that, of course, an agreement between Sanader and Janša was reached in 2007 with the assistance of a third party, with the help of the then proposal with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I will not repeat all the good solutions in the way this arbitration agreement brings. Therefore, taking into account international law, that is to say, the essential broader elements, namely the integration of justice and the principle of good neighbourly relations in order to achieve fair and fair decisions, take into account all relevant circumstances. And, of course, it is now a difficult task for Slovenia to use all its best personnel, all its historical arguments for drawing up such starting points in the memorandum, which will, of course, provide solutions that are also foreseen in the proposal for a solution to this issue. Of course, that is why I expect from the Government indeed the choice of all competent experts and the presentation of all relevant historical and other facts that will, of course, prove what Slovenia wants to achieve in this arbitration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. On 26 April, 86 Members and Members submitted a request to the National Assembly for a call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the Law Reiterating the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 19 April 2010. The request also included a proposal for a decision on the invitation to tender for the referendum. We did so taking into account the agreement of the Presidents of all parliamentary parties in the invitation to a subsequent legislative referendum adopted at the meeting with the President of the Government on 26 March. We are of the opinion that this is such an important issue that when the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement is in force, voters and voters of the Republic of Slovenia should also be judged. Let me stress once again, as the Constitutional Court has already stated in its opinion, that the agreement is not unconstitutional because it is an act that only determines the way to solve the problem. The agreement therefore does not set a limit, but merely a way of making this border definitively determined on a peaceful path. By signing this arbitration agreement, Slovenia and Croatia have, after almost 20 years, paved the way for a definitive solution to the border issue. They decided to resolve the border dispute by means of a third and thus burden each other, allowing further deepening of good-neighbourly relations and multilateral cooperation. As I said during the ratification of the arbitration agreement on 19 April in the National Assembly, this time, in my opinion, I have really matured the time for almost twenty years under an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Arbitral Court to determine the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea and the contact of Slovenia with the open sea and not just the service route, as the President of the largest opposition party, Janez Janša, then and later confirmed several times. Furthermore, pursuant to Article 3 of the Arbitration Agreement, the arbitral tribunal must also establish a regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas. The Court of Arbitration will take into account in its decision-making: for the first time, rules and principles of international law, when it determines the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, and for the second time, international law, justice and the principle of good neighbourly relations to achieve a fair and fair decision taking into account all relevant circumstances when it determines the contact of Slovenia with the high seas. All relevant circumstances include history and historical facts and traditions. The historical fact is that cities and settlements on our side throughout history have been controlled by the Gulf of Piran because on the opposite side of the bay there were virtually no inhabited settlements. There are other historical circumstances, fishing rights, salt borders, shipping tradition, police, administrative, biological, ecological and archaeological control, centuries old name of the Gulf, borders of the church authorities and so on. All of this will be accurately described and explained in our arguments in the memorandum. With regard to the critical date, it was agreed that no unilateral document or action by any party after 25 June 1991 has legal relevance to the tasks of the arbitral tribunal and does not oblige any party and cannot prejudge the judgment in any way. Why is the arbitration agreement for Slovenia good? Firstly, because it ensures the realization of the strategic interests of Slovenia. Secondly, because it will significantly improve relations between countries. Thirdly, because he's putting the task of the arbitration tribunal in a good way. Fourthly, because he's gonna take the wind with a nuclear-hate hateful policy in both countries. And fifthly, because the lives of people along the border and those living off the sea will be easier. Therefore, I invite you to participate in the referendum on 6 June as much as possible and to vote in favour of the arbitration agreement, since it is almost 20 years before the time has come for us to definitively define the border between the countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Your Honor! Obviously, the referendum is really the only way to achieve what can be said domestically to stop horses, with respect for democratic Europe's extremely well-respected democratic resources as a referendum. In fact, today is the day when things are largely upside down. Let us take a look at some concrete examples. Earlier in the opening part, the President of the Government asked the opposition what would happen with the blockade of Croatia. He was asking us. Yes, good morning, but who is the authority, who has the power to enforce the blockade, and who is the only one who has put in place the blockade of Croatia? It's just him. This government, this coalition. And this despite the fact that the opposition, which we now so slyly ask, has warned us that the blockade, in its expression, is a concept that Europe does not accept, that the one talking about the blockade in the modern world is becoming aggressive. And now we are witness to the text of this agreement, which will obviously be decided by the people of the old principle, by the old truth: "Whoever sows the wind, reaps the wind". As the blockade was announced by this ruling coalition to divert attention from its own economic failure, Slovenia, as a hostage of such a false aggressive government policy under pressure from the international community, eventually the government bowed to an agreement such as that. What would such success be in this agreement? Look at this again from the point of view of how things turned out today. As the argument was said, again on the same side: "We once, in 1997, we also had to change the Constitution." Of course, that's true, but put it in context, but from the current position. We had to change our Constitution as that country that was approaching the European Union in order to satisfy some of the interests of one of the members of the European Union, and now, as a member of the European Union, we, as a member of the European Union, should amend the Constitution in order to satisfy the interest of that country that is yet to enter the European Union, following a warning from the Constitutional Court. And it's sold as a success. It's only the starting point, as it's always been highlighted and represented here, that it's been reversed again. Look, there's talk all the time. It's about good neighbourly relations. I respect that. I also appreciate this and personally support that all the Western Balkan countries become members of NATO if that is all they want and, of course, the European Union. That's where they belong. Croatia certainly belongs to the European Union. Respecting democratic standards. That's all it really is. Because here we have to say it's not just our interest. It is not just a warning that the Constitutional Court made very clear when it said it would be good even to change the constitution in advance. Even so far, the Constitutional Court has proposed that Slovenia should amend the Constitution in advance, in order to legally complete the threatening loss of the sea and much of its territory. Because this would no longer be in line with the Fundamental Constitutional Charter, as is still the constitutional basis of this country. However, such an agreement is not only to the detriment of Slovenia, it is also to the detriment of the European Union. For some of you have already pointed out the possibility of further conflicts, even if this arbitration agreement had been adopted. But again, interestingly, even the Prime Minister of the Government spoke from the point of view of Croatia, yes, if he negotiated more properly, perhaps the border would be on Mirna or even on the River, as he said, and then they could see it as an injustice and it would be a permanent source of conflict. But that, of course, is a Croatian aspect. But people of God, there is also a Slovenian aspect here, because Slovenia is threatening and this is very real, even after the Constitutional Court has warned it to be located as a closed state, to take away what it has throughout history. This is a direct territorial contact with the open sea, unhindered access to the open sea and thus justified faster development and better quality of life. And, of course, there is another real possibility of a permanent conflict, because Slovenians and Slovenians would see this as a great injustice if, on the basis of such an inadequate text of the arbitration agreement, there was actually a serious injustice to the country of Slovenia, and this would all the time lay down as a lasting source of conflict that would be passed on within the European Union and would, of course, ruin life for all in this part of Europe, as well as for the European Union and the great forces as a whole. If lasting peace is to be achieved, there must be a just solution, and therefore the principle of external justice as a starting point here would be so important, because the principle of "ex aequo et bono" of external justice, which we thus lack in this agreement, would mean that the historical circumstances where Slovenia has all the arguments and all the rights, can be given priority. However, if it is only a legal principle, as it is put at the forefront of this agreement, then the primary geometry and geometry will know exactly how it will end. With the middle line following the Gulf, which will be definitive and irreparable and with Slovenia's closure in its territorial territory without direct continuous uninterrupted contact with the open sea. Which means that their strategic advantages, the locations we have, the link between the Adriatic and Central Europe, could no longer be taken full advantage of. We couldn't even completely manage our own space. Remember that the present time, the current position of Slovenia, allowed us to announce our safety belts at sea a few years ago. We de facto and de jure, so in fact at this point we have the full position of the coastal state, which has territorial contact with the open sea, because we have been able to do so. Once it is decided that we do not have it, of course, these belts are no longer to be declared, and this becomes just a nice memory back. There's something else that needs to be added to the end. Today it was very interesting to listen to the argument. In a way, it would be an interesting political analysis. Because on the one hand, there were arguments. On the one hand, we have warned that 90% of the Slovenian legal profession of three or four former Presidents of the Constitutional Court, the President of the First Democratic Assembly, who is also a professor of constitutional law, some of the most prominent experts in international and maritime law, such as Professor Pavliha, oppose this agreement. Some people who have devoted their lives to Slovenia and Slovenia, as market writer Mr Pahor, also explicitly oppose this agreement. And we ran into attempts to shut our mouths, ridicule, and even intimidation. Some kind of half-life that is meant to bring him back to life in this hall. At the Committee's meeting, the first sentence of today's interview by Prof. Pavliha was read three times that the agreement was a procedural argument. But there was certainly no second sentence that I had to read every time I read and quote: "Because of my shortcomings, it means too much risk for Slovenia." This is an essential message, and this is the essence of the problem that we are facing and that Slovenia and Slovenia, citizens and citizens will have to decide directly at the referendum. That attempts have been made to close my mouth, I do not speak only in the minute that was just past the Rules of Procedure at one of the previous meetings. But also in the case that the same Professor Paulich had exposed to the public tribunal, who said that from one prominent representative of the current government, when he warned that he was opposed to a flawed, harmful arbitration agreement for Slovenia, he had been cut off: "Then be quiet." But what's wrong with you is that the constitutional profession wasn't quiet. She has spoken against this agreement. The international lawyers were not silent. Most spoke explicitly against this text. And, of course, maritime law experts have also pointed out shortcomings. And the extremely high risk that this agreement poses and that is why it is opposed to it - this is your problem. And then he even tries to resort to intimidation. I quote a statement by SD representative: "Why would Slovenians then want to prolong some agony when they cut their tires and attacked them in Croatia by various nationalist extremists from Croatia." Yes, please, it's a magnetogram of today's session. It's just a low culture. Twice. Firstly, the neighbours, who have shown exceptional capacity in the field of foreign policy, could be a great example here already because of their search for consensus and the achievement of consensus throughout the political spectrum. And with expertise, the existing authorities, unfortunately at this crucial moment, could also be an example of a departure from this consensus. And on the other hand, they could play their game brilliantly. Those who were involved in the drafting of this agreement later opposed him to the public in order to achieve some internal and, more importantly, external political effect. This game they played brilliantly. However, we have had to deal with the fact that the existing coalition of Slovenia has actually established the country as a hostage in the international community for its unilateral narrow policy, which in fact aimed at diverting attention from internal economic failure to the search for an external enemy. That is why such words to Croatia are inappropriate. Croatia is certainly a country which deserves to join the European Union and which deserves respect, even to achieve its objectives in the field of international policy. But our problem is how to make this possible without, so that because of your wrong actions, a respected coalition would suffer our country. And that's why I'm going back to the beginning and I'm done with this is the only way to go to the referendum. That is why I am also in favour of this decree to vote against the referendum and to actually strengthen the negotiating position of this and all future authorities, because it will be demonstrated to the international community that Slovenia is a country that can respect, enforce and use those democratic methods, those democratic institutions, such as, for example, a referendum that the international community respects more than we ourselves sometimes do. For that community, that country which can stand up for its own interests is taken into account in the international community. That one's been established. The latter shall then be allowed to exercise their interests to a greater extent in adopting this, but also in any other act. In fact, this is to achieve a point where this additional argument reaches back to the table for renegotiation, seeks to achieve the best possible text and, in the interim period, the current situation remains, when we also have proven, with the declared protection belt deficit and de jure, access to the open sea and thus to the strategic interests of the State of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Mrs. Klasinc, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u52	I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to replicate because today, by the SDS, Mr Janša did this first and now Mr Grims has already ripped out part of my statement on the Committee on Foreign Policy and shows that the main problem is that a tourist, as it was done to me, is being cut off by rubber. It was just one example of what was going on. And I never said it was a threat. But so far there have been incidents on both sides, by tourists and hosts. After the complete blockades of the Slovenian economy in Croatia have taken place, in the middle of the Piran Bay, police boats have sailed, the former government has sent special units leading with the Minister of Home Affairs, that is to say politically oriented police units, to the border with Croatia and that Slovenians do not want to live in such a country. And that is why it is in our interest to conclude this agreement as soon as possible, so that we can peacefully agree on a third party's decision if we have not been able to do it alone for almost 20 years. And I ask that you do not misquote me, as you do all the other things that the President of the Government and other discussers have also referred to here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Procedural proposal, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u54	I would ask you to warn the respectable Mrs. Klasinchev that there is a permissible replica when it is misquoted. In this case, however, I have literally quoted your statement from today's session, which I can repeat: "Why would Slovenians then want to prolong some agony when they cut their tires and attacked them in Croatia by various nationalist extremists from Croatia and then do the same with us?" This is today's statement you made. It's true, it's accurate, and it's recorded in a magnetogram, and everyone can be sure of that. And please don't accuse me of ripping it out of context in any way. Everyone can see for themselves. But I also have to be honest with you that I'm not surprised because I've been predicting intimidation as your method to our people six months ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. That was a typical replica of a replica I shouldn't have given you. Mr. Patrick Vlačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Thank you, Chairman. It seems important to me to tell you something about access to the open sea and about how the world's seas are actually being sailed. Allow a short history discourse. In the 12th, 13th century, two countries ruled the entire marine area because they had such a strong fleet. One was Spain, the other was Portugal. And the pope divided the whole then known land and sea, one country, one country, another country. They tried to prevent navigation because you probably remember that at the time the ships were armed with everyone else in those areas. This was the time of the free voyage. In the 16th century, the concept of free navigation won for ever. Hugo Grotius was the one who made this concept as an international lawyer at the time. This concept still applies today, the concept of free navigation. Basically, the voyage across all seas is free. This is the case for all maritime countries that navigation in all and from all maritime countries is basically free. In aviation, as well as in the maritime sector, corridors are sometimes made for sailing in order to make navigation safer. Between the Republic of Slovenia, between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy, there is a tripartite agreement on separate navigation schemes in the Gulf of Serbia. This tripartite agreement basically foresees, in two words, that it sails along the eastern coast of the Adriatic towards the northern Adriatic, wherever the ships go, and that it sails from the upper part of the Adriatic along the west coast of the Adriatic. It's for the safety of the boat, nothing special. What I want to tell you is, I just need to read the sentence again to 3B. the point provides that an arbitration agreement, i.e. for an arbitration agreement, provides that the court shall determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, shall determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. I don't know which part of this sentence is clear because some say we're going to lose contact with the open sea. But what I'm trying to say is that Slovenia will be in contact with the open sea. But no matter where this corridor will be territorial to contact the open sea. The very voyage of ships which sails in or from Koper will not necessarily follow this corridor, because we have an international agreement which, for reasons of safety, determines that ships sail differently. Even if you take your yachts for free from the Slovenian Sea to take them to international waters or to Italy or to Croatia or anywhere, you will not sail through the corridor to the open sea, but you will sail the shortest possible route. You can also sail down the corridor. You'll do it because you'd like to sail the so-called Slovenian highway to the open sea. Okay, you can be. You did it once because of your curiosity, and then you never did it again. Because it sails by the sea as far as possible or by means of separate navigation schemes. What I want to tell you is not to frighten the Slovenian public that Slovenia will be closed. Since the arbitration agreement states, it establishes contact with the high seas. And this contact is important. Not so much for sailing, it's important for bad times. He's important for bad times. It is important for bad times if there are any unforeseeable deteriorations in this part of the world. More for that than for anything else. So please don't be fooled, because you need to know a little bit about what sailing means, what sea openness means, and what concept won in history when two concepts hit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. Today, we can see that in today's debate there have also been certain facts that are somehow not quite in everyone's will in this debate room. Finally, after 20 years, the arbitration agreement leads to an open-ended solution. That is why today there is so much opposition, so much negative omen, because the matter will be resolved, perhaps also because it will be resolved in this mandate. It's a matter of reciprocity and a desire for salvation. The interests of both countries, both Slovenia and Croatia, because the Republic of Slovenia is in no way giving up sovereignty, do not give up autonomy, but because the desire and interest of both countries, both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, are to resolve matters. It is true that in some ways several facts have been covered together, which has also led to greater trust between the two governments. We begin with the President of the governments and then also at the level of the competent ministries, in particular the foreign ministry. And here it is to greet and commend that this cooperation has come to such a level that it has established trust. And that we will here, in the National Assembly, first confirm the proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on 6 June - I believe and I am convinced - that we will consider citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but also decisively after the 20s or the good 19s, to accede to the approval of the arbitration agreement. The President of the Government made it clear that the agreement was good and that Slovenia would not lose contact with the open sea. Even now, there has recently been a lot of debate in this direction that it will lose. But that's not true. As Minister Vlačič also said, paragraph 3B of the Arbitration Agreement defines very clearly how and what is going on in relation to the open sea. So, Slovenia doesn't lose anything. It is true, though, that some may also be demagogic and want to show some things in a blacker way to scare people. I come from an area where we live along the Schengen border at the border with the Republic of Croatia. In the last week, I was a representative of the local community and also a member of the National Assembly twice at two events. At the invitation of the Republic of Croatia or the local community on Tuesday, 27 April at Pantovčak at the President of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Ivo Josipovic, together with the Association of Slovenian-Croatian Friendship, Green Jury. Twenty-two years have traditionally met with two folklore groups, one from Slovenia from Vinica, one from Croatia. And it is repeatedly stressed, as they say in the history of Croatia, in history, the Slovenian and Croatian people have understood each other. They've never been on a war leg like they say that this arbitration agreement wouldn't have been resolved so that this matter wouldn't have been confirmed. Those who live, like ourselves, five hundred metres from the Schengen border, are well aware of how important this good cooperation is. Also from Metlika, where I come from, on 29 April we received a decision from the Council of Europe Commission to obtain an honorable European flag. Why? Because we have been associated with the Croatian Municipality of Grad Ozalj for 27 years, with the Italian municipality of Ronki and for 40 years with the Austrian municipality of Wagna. This is international cooperation within the European Union and beyond. I believe that the Republic of Croatia will join the European Union as soon as possible and that this cooperation will continue to be as excellent as it is. On Friday, when I was in the Castle of Ozal, at their celebrations, it was precisely the opinion and hope and desire that, on our part, even as some kind of word, we would be Members of the National Assembly, that we would be here in the National Assembly first, and then also in the referendum to vote and be considered for the good of both Slovenia and Croatia. I think that there must be no dilemma here, that there is no dilemma and that the people who listen to us, who are following us, so, at the Schengen border, there are many Slovenian-Croatian laws, Croatian-Slovenian laws, all over this area. I don't know who would object to someone in the family even if it came from the Republic of Croatia, because this cooperation is excellent. Previously, it has also been said that it was not possible because the agreement was reached just in time of the biggest economic and financial crisis. I don't know if some who are discussing how they are otherwise aware of the fact that some Slovenian companies also have important plants, their factories also in the Republic of Croatia - even in our area. Kolpa from Metlika also has an important plant in Croatia, across the border. And this cooperation is important, it's very good. And we want the agreement to further strengthen the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, strengthen good cooperation and continue this cooperation. And there's one more thing. Many, who will vote on the arbitration agreement, will think about all of this and who listens to our discussions, have only been born as long as these matters are resolved. However, he will now be an electorate and has no prejudice against Croatian neighbours. So let's be careful here. Let us step together and vote in the same way as the Republic of Slovenia first and at the same time the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Dear President, distinguished ministers. It is common for certain different opinions, including conflicts, to occur at borders. Slovenia has exemplary relations with Iceland and another country. Therefore, I think that such tensions or open questions are something completely normal as is the case between the Republic of Slovenia. And certainly, in these twenty years, there has been quite a lot of experience from these international relations, in which every so long it is also due to political needs and why oil is poured into the fire of this problem. And it is true that all Slovenians and Slovenes are tired of these questions. However, the history of solving these issues is interesting, and I must say that I have already met these issues as local politicians, because the environment from which I come is also one of these issues. I am talking about the Krško nuclear power plant, where there was also an open question from 2001 to 2003 and there was an attempt to find solutions. At that time, the issue around the border was also resolved in parallel with solving the issue. We all remember the Drnovšek agreement, Račan, which in some way predicted by a large majority of the time in Slovenia, a solution that was exemplary for neighbourly relations, where politics agreed, confirmed certain agreements and made some examples in neighbourly good relations. Unfortunately, from that package, which was an indisputable package, including those involved in the interstate contract around the nuclear power plant, this first-hand confirmed to us that it was a package, that only one agreement was made out of this package, which was then supposed to be the one against the argument that was positive for the Croatian side, the border was supposed to be positive, a little bit for Slovenia. That's when we ended that era with just one deal. I am also afraid now that we will adopt this agreement or determine a way of setting a border from which Slovenia will draw a shorter end. There are also some of these observations in the way that decisions are made. I also think that Slovenian policy should sit tight together, including last autumn, to agree on a way of working and not to come to a decision on the referendum now, and this difficult issue, professionally and politically, is being passed on to the shoulders of the Slovenian people. I myself have been monitoring and I have also observed how things have been handled in Croatia. I think it's the right way. The Prime Minister obtained a consensus on the agreement, around the starting points before she went into these arrangements. In our case, however, the matter was so regulated that practically the Prime Minister of the Government put his political career at stake, as he himself says, and took responsibility for this work and also with various manoeuvres. This referendum is also part of some of the manoeuvres in trying to cover the whole matter. I think that these warnings, which come from very distinguished citizens and citizens, have been mentioned here today, Mr Boris Pahor, Dr France Bučar, Dr Pavliha, Dr Cerar, well aware of this issue, quite a warning that Slovenian politics should stop and not go through the wall to solve this problem. This solution is now a referendum, some two-thirds political support or non-support, which has been taken into account on the other side of the border, has not been taken into account in Slovenia. That is why I now think that we are needlessly taking responsibility for elections and elections, as citizens and citizens, who, I think, also have referendums and also taking responsibility for such actions, so that they are already a little out of line. I am afraid that it is also a major problem to do this that until the final breakup it will take several years after the negotiating positions of Slovenia are out of hand. And I don't know who will then take political responsibility and what will be the function when this agreement is finally known. That is why I think it would be right for the Slovenian and Slovenian referendum to decide against this arbitration agreement and to return to decision-making where it is necessary to decide, and to find a solution that should be found in international relations, just and appropriate for our time for both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think that the referendum should vote in favour of an arbitration agreement because it is good because it solves the problem that we have been solving for 20 years and because the arbitration agreement contains all that policy has in the past required that the arbitration agreement contain. Everything else seems to me to be the struggle of some prestige between political parties today. Perhaps it is an important question who has reached such an arbitration agreement, at which time this is being adopted and why this coalition is now coming to such results. But specifically to the arguments, because I think this is the most important thing. Because it seems important to me that the people who will take this decision, which is ultimately binding also on the National Assembly, know what they will decide and that they will take this decision sovereignly. Then I will also return to the arguments that have been put forward today in the National Assembly and do not hold, frighten people and encourage people not to decide to go to the referendum at all or to make the wrong decision. The key argument to be seen is that, once again, the task of the arbitration agreement is to determine: (a) the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, (b) the contact of Slovenia with the high seas and (c) the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas. In doing so, it is very important that the law applied by the arbitral tribunal will be taken into account when deciding in this dispute, in particular as set out in two points: firstly, the rules and principles of international law when deciding on land and sea borders, secondly, the B point of contact between Slovenia and the high seas, as well as the regime where international law, justice, the principle of good-neighbourly relations will be applied to achieve a fair and fair decision, taking into account all relevant circumstances. As a key point, no unilateral document or action by any party after 25 June 1991 has legal relevance to the tasks of the arbitral tribunal and does not oblige any party and cannot prejudge the judgment in any way. These are the requirements that have been made throughout history if you have heard an argument as to why the arbitration agreement must contain, these are the arguments that are now enshrined in the arbitration agreement. Here are more than those contained in proposal Ren 1 and at that time, the one who today is most opposed to the adoption of this arbitration agreement, namely, the President of the opposition SDS, Janez Janša, was prepared to adopt Ren 1, who was worse than what we have on the table today. But today, in fact, it's unacceptable. I think that politics here often plays its part, and that is not right. This is wrong when it comes to arguments and populism in this place, at this time and on such an important issue it has no room and must not have room. Much has been said on the subject of our own sovereignty. We don't lose our sovereignty, we don't give our sovereignty to someone else, but we took this right ourselves, we set the rules of the game, and that's how we face it. It will be said today either the fifth or the tenth, or the hundredth, that the arbitral tribunal must already determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. This means that we do not give the arbitral tribunal a judgment as to whether or not Slovenia has contact with the open sea. This is a fact, we have a contact, we need to define this key point and the arguments that go against it do not hold back. The case was brought and sent to the Constitutional Court to see whether the law is in any way contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We have also received an answer here to help decide when people decide on the referendum, so it is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The key thing is that we have heard a bunch of arguments today that, of course, do not hold back. One of these is that this arbitration agreement does not contain the principle of fairness, external justice, "ex aeque et bono". But we must all be aware that today this requires the SDS, which has had the opportunity to write this principle in the Flemish Agreement and has not written it, this was the so-called principle agreement between the prime ministers, Sanader and Janša, but it was not recorded in the agreement. Nor did this agreement reach this point in order to be ratified by the National Assembly. And today, to demand something that has never been written down and agreed with the Republic of Croatia is irresponsible and, above all, misleading when we appear before the arguments of the Slovenian public. It is true, however, that at that time "ex aequo et bono" would be necessary if we went to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as also advocated by SDS President Janez Janša, and we did not do so, thank God, we decided on an arbitral tribunal where all other relevant historical circumstances will be important, and where we will be able to prove with the arguments we have in the Memorandum, it is also written in an arbitration agreement, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs team and all those who will help. Very briefly. It seems irresponsible to me today that someone in this Chamber claims that Slovenia will lose its sea, lose its Slovenian territory, threaten Slovenia's rights to the maritime state, threaten Slovenian water access to the Mediterranean and so on. This is irresponsible and this is not true, this is a lie that is encouraged only by people to vote against the arbitration agreement. I think there's at least so much to be responsible and to be operated on with arguments. Minister Vlačič told you what the arguments for contact with the open sea are, the arbitration agreement sets out, it is said, Slovenia has this contact. This is not important when sailing ships, however, because sailing is carried out elsewhere. So everything else is an argument for the intimidation of voters and voters and an incentive to reject this arbitration agreement. One last thing. Status quo, the status we have today, the state of the country, I don't think it's good. We've been solving this problem for 20 years. We have the opportunity to save him in a referendum, to save him in such a way that Slovenia will have one of the things that will save the border in order to gain its rights. As a result, I will be very happy to vote in favour of the arbitration agreement at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, President. Mr Levanic said that politics played its role after we received "Rehn 1" and "Rehn 2". I must say that I am new in politics, but that I see here very much how politics plays its part. It's amazing how things turn out, what they really are and what they're saying. I was there in June when Rehn presented his own, this is Rehn's second proposal. I know we were ready to talk about "Rehn 2." Before that, we had a P.O.P. where we talked about this. A Croatian colleague came and said that "Rehn2" was completely unacceptable to them, nor was it a basis for discussion. And he left the talks. Sanader also had a pamphlet in Brussels, a speech in which he attacked Slovenia that they would not give an inch of their territory, and it was over. That was "Rehn 2." The only change in this agreement since "Rehn 2" is the timeline. This is the only compromise we have made to postpone the entry into force of the arbitration agreement for six months. If it enters into force and enters into force in June of this Agreement, it will be six months before Croatia signs. And that's all. And at that time, we can prepare and translate everything we need for the memorandum so that no time is lost. But I want to say how amazing it has been since June, when the agreement that was in our favor on the table and when Croatia tripped through the door left the negotiations that this is totally unacceptable to them, but now it is said that this is an agreement for Croatia, for which two-thirds of the support was made, two-thirds of which is, of course, because it is written in the constitution, but for us this is a bad agreement, although it was a good agreement for us in June. This is truly incredible, and I hope that people in these four weeks, which will be debated, will go through this ideological or whatever it is, political debate, and will try to listen and read the agreement and listen to arguments or confront arguments. And this is where we get to ex aeque et bono. The International Court of Justice in The Hague, of course, is an institution, a large institution that has its own institution and can only operate under the statute. There is also one provision in the Statute "ex aeque et bono" and if you want a court to decide any kind of justice, you must refer to one provision of this Statute. And that's why we were talking about "ex aeque et bono". When you talk about an arbitration agreement, you're resetting the arbitration tribunal. We have laid down rules in the agreement, the arbitration tribunal will act on what is enshrined in the agreement, not on any statute or other rules. And so it was necessary to write in these rules and we wrote all of this down, which is and even better than "ex aeque et bono", because "ex aeque et bono", as has been said many times, has never been used in the caselaw of the Interstate Court since 1945. It is said that judges should first determine the content. And given how the judges of the Interstate Court in The Hague are resistant to such innovations, they would likely find themselves in the face of ordinary justice. I think that's why it's much better than what's written here when we figure out what the content of this justice is to decide. And earlier it was said that the Croats were this symbolic act, a symbolic question, but for us it is a vital question of life. And we have also put that in, it has to decide, it has to take into account the vital interests of the countries in addition to all the other four points mentioned. Many foreign international lawyers have been consulted in the past on various matters and also on "ex aeque et bono". The majority opinion is that it is better than it was to insist on "ex aeque et bono" is to strengthen the principle of fairness, it is to give more content so that you do not leave the judges to determine for themselves what it is. It was generally felt that the decisions of the Court in The Hague in the past, even if decided by "ex aeque et bono", would not be as different as they were, and better than focusing on this "ex aeque et bono", was to focus on special circumstances. And this is what we have inside: we have the relevant circumstances inside, historically, geographically or in any way, we will define them in our memorandum to be drawn up. So much for "ex aeque et bono" or not being in it. I think it is much better that what is in this agreement is that we direct judges, arbitrators, how to decide which direction to decide. In addition, it will be five arbitrators, one of which will be Slovenian and the others will not be judges of the interstate court. Mr Pukšič said what would happen if the agreement was not confirmed and also Mr Grims spoke about it or referred to the question of the Prime Minister of the Government, what was the opposition's proposal if the agreement was rejected by the voters. Of course, the Prime Minister of the Government is asking the opposition because the opposition is urging voters to vote against this agreement and is also asking what the option is. Because there are no options. The option is the status quo, as we have heard here, so Croatia enters the European Union with an unresolved border issue with Slovenia. I think that we all know that after Croatia is a member of the European Union, it will not be in any way ready to talk to us about any contact, so this agreement is written as it is now to establish contact with the open sea, as it is now to determine contact with the open sea of Slovenia. I think it's so clear that there's no point in getting involved. However, staus quo, as it is now, is not in favour of Slovenia and must be overcome as soon as possible. Mr Puksic, you said the biggest problem is that Croatia must withdraw from the occupied territories. Well, that's the deal. The article states, no action, no document can be taken after 1991. That's it. Then let the Court determine what the situation was in 1991 and then within six months, as a real agreement, it will withdraw to where it will have to withdraw. It's in the agreement. If the two of them don't agree, you can't force your will, you ask the third. And that's what we've done now. Like you're fighting with a neighbor because he's moving to your side. Yeah, if you don't want to fight him, then you're going to the judge. And if this neighbor can't present evidence to the court, what he's established, but the situation that was before the beginning of the dispute is taken away, then you go to the judge who will decide as it should and as it is and as it is true. That's all. In the beginning, there was once a talk about Article a and b or Article 3 a, b, c of the section. Article 3 speaks, a, to set a limit on the sea, land, b, contact with the high seas and c, to determine the relevant maritime zones. A, b and c does not mean a timeline. The Court will publish one decision, and so it writes. And it won't decide time first about a, then about b, then about c, but about everything at once. We talked a lot about this when we made this agreement. Commissioner Rehn's assurance at the time was that he could testify before the court that this was not a, b, c, a time following, but that there were only a few adjectives written down on what must be decided. At first there was a talk about why we went to b, because, of course, it's already in the sea and land, we already have contact there. Of course we can have him. But then it would have been obvious that we'd lost contact with the open sea. That is why we have specifically insisted that we also record contact with the open sea and that it be determined that there will be no doubt. And he's not. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the floor, Minister. We are just ahead of one normal, normal life situation when we have a conflict, we have a problem, and we want to solve it. How do we act in life? The smart ones sit at the table, make a deal and make a deal. Others, with some other negative feelings and inclinations, would have disputed their entire lives, then disgruntled, bitterly gone somewhere else from this world of theirs, and passed this trauma on to their offspring. Those of us who are home from the countryside know that many Slovenian farms have come back decades to the cant, to the drum, because they have complained infertilely about a few metres of land, established their rightness and then, of course, picked up their lawyers. I support the settlement of the arbitration agreement. Even if we had not decided on the referendum, I would have taken this responsibility and pressed the "yes" button that the arbitration agreement was a good and the right solution. In Slovenian politics, we have obviously decided to leave co-decision on this matter to the electorate and the electorate, as is reasonable and right. But I'm worried about the following. I'm not worried about our unanimity before the referendum. It is only right that we explain the matter to voters and voters, and then each of them decides what he will put in the ballot box, just as he thinks it is right. But I'm concerned that we'll maintain this unanimity even after the referendum. Traumas are known more than 60 years ago when politics wants to divide voters into such and different ones. However, it seems essential to me that no matter who is more or less satisfied after the referendum to make a promise and commitment to any decision at the referendum as a politician in the National Assembly and to respect it. That would be, I think, a great national conscious and patriotic act. Let's look back at history. When Slovenians and Slovenians were united, we achieved the great goals and great results that generations of our ancestors dreamed of. So it was at the referendum on independence, so it was when we decided to go our separate ways. Something about the agreement itself. I think it brings a lot. Whether we have contact with the open sea or not is pointless. It's like if someone called a locksmith to fix his door, then he'd question himself whether he has a door or not. I firmly believe that Slovenia has had and has had contact with the open sea, that the term of the sea country is another term to keep our coast, our sea, and with our neighbor we will solve some traumatic, almost two decades long conflict and we will be able to focus both on matters that are very, very important for everyday life. I was happy with the informative shows during these holiday days that show how congregations on one side and on the other side of the border want integration, cooperation, openness, and that is what this is all about. If we live with neighbors, with friends in style, in cooperation, then the economic results for both countries will also be significantly better. And that's the only thing that keeps us going. I will support the referendum myself tonight because obviously there is no other solution, and at the referendum itself, there is no arbitration agreement. And I am sure that most Slovenes and Slovenes will want cooperation on the part of those who communicate, decisions, decisions, cooperation, as opposed to those who would continue to cultivate some controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely hailed minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is very interesting how, for example, the debate on one such technical decision, the call for a referendum on the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, encouraged so much creativity and creativity that we have just quoted a number of our poets and writers, Prešerna, Cankar, and it is also likely that we have and live at a time when Ljubljana is the world capital of the book. I'm going to quote Matthew Bor: "Well, we're small, but we're small." Despite the fact that all of these years, since 1991, we have not settled such an important issue as the course of the border with Croatia, and despite the smallness of the border, we have achieved that, for the third time in the National Assembly, we have been dealing with the issue of an arbitration agreement. The president of the Committee on Foreign Policy presented extensive statistics of the hearings. It is true that the arbitration agreement is only a procedural document that defines only the starting points for the work of the arbitrators or how and how arbitration will decide on the content, since we have not been able to do so alone in bilateral relations over the past 19 years, not Croatia and not Slovenia. It is true that the National Assembly has already decided on an arbitration agreement and that today we are only deciding on a decision to call for a legislative referendum on the ratification of an arbitration agreement. It is true that citizens and citizens will not, when they leave for the referendum, and we will not decide on the passage of an interstate border on land and at sea, which, despite its basic constitutional instruments, has been interpreted differently or differently for 19 years. Those who will go to the referendum will not decide on any border, you will decide on the initiation of an arbitration procedure with an international body whose composition has been determined equally after a long negotiations, painful not to say anything else, when the European Union meditates. We will decide on the start of a long-term process that will last for at least three years or more. Wisdom and maturity are what I expect from the Slovenians and Slovenes and all those who will attend this referendum. And what do I expect to happen at the time of adoption? I expect that hatred, tension, and uncertainty between the two nations will cease, not only at the borders that in ancient times even thought they were brothers. I expect the process and process of normalising relations between countries to begin. The agreement dictates a good legal framework for ending long-term agony and a constructive compromise, as we have heard many times today. I see it as an instrument that will promote normal, friendly, good-neighbourly and international relations, which are a prerequisite for such a stable economic cooperation that has more than a century of tradition and shows it to continue. The interdependence of friendly, good-neighbourly relations and quality economic cooperation is important to continue; the prerequisite for long-term economic cooperation is indeed a perspective for all of us. If we see any further, we will also see the expansion of the market, markets and products. All of this, however, contributes to a better life and quality of life, as it is also the objective of a social democratic policy aimed at a person who is aimed at improving life and not just some or elites who have lived all these years at the expense of so easily created conflicts and the consequences of these conflicts. Just for the good of someone and why. Let me repeat again why and how I feel and I think it is necessary to say why the agreement is important and good. It ensures the achievement of the strategic objectives and interests of Slovenia. It significantly improves relations between countries. In a good way, it sets the task of the arbitration tribunal to take away the wind from the sails of hostile policies in both countries, and the lives of people along the border and those living by the sea will be easier. I believe and I hope that we will attend this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša has the floor as part of the SDS time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. In this debate, many mentions have been made or an attempt has been made to compare between the Pale Agreement and this Agreement. There was no agreement on Bled. If anyone has a pale agreement, show it to me. Slovenia has not signed any agreement there. Neither did she agree on any agreement. The Bled agreement was reached only in principle that we were trying to harmonise the agreement, a consensus was reached in Bled, for which there was a practical political unity in Slovenia for all parliamentary parties, with the partial exception of the Slovenian National Party, to try to solve the border problem also with the help of a third party. However, since Croatia was not willing to agree to the application of the principle of external justice in Bled and not in previous talks, it was not only there that no agreement had been signed, nor was the joint declaration prepared at the time. It has only been repeated that we are prepared to resolve the border problem between Slovenia and Croatia also with the help of a third court, including the help of the Hague court, provided that this court does not judge by international law, but by the principle of "ex aeque et bono". This principle of "ex aeque et bono" or external justice was then explicitly demanded in Slovenia by the opposition, precisely those parties who today say that today this principle is in fact irrelevant or is in any way the same as the general principle of justice in international law, have hired experts a few years ago to write legal expertise on how this principle of external justice is vital to Slovenia. It is as if in a few years this has completely changed or forgotten. International law has not changed in three years; the Statute of the Hague Court has not changed; the principle of external justice has the same meaning as it was then. Slovenia has also commissioned a number of expertise from international legal experts since we reached a semi-agreement that we are ready to resolve the border issue with the assistance of a third party. A number of direct talks have also been held with them and they have largely stated that the principle of external justice for Slovenia is vital if Slovenia delegates the resolution of the border issue with Croatia to a third party, an international institution. We also spoke with former members, as well as with current members of the Hague Court, with the members of the Hamburg Law of the Sea Court, a number of experts who, in fact, all of them unitedly said that Slovenia had an extremely strong historical argument regarding its, not its, demand, but the right to territorial contact with international waters, because a large part of the sea, territory and population after World War II after the Paris Peace Conference was simply taken away or denied, at the same international peace conference where Croatia actually received everything from Italy: the whole territory and the entire population. In preparation for the delegation of resolution of this issue through the third, Slovenia has collected a number of documents, a number of documents that speak for our arguments. Part of this documentation was published in a so-called white book, but not entirely. We therefore have a strong argument that Slovenia can provide to an international court or tribunal, but this documentation will only be taken into account if this court can judge more broadly than the framework that this agreement gives to the referendum today. Almost all foreign experts have said that if those who decide on your rights at sea, especially at sea with regard to the border, decide on international law, then they will draw the line in the middle of the Gulf of Piran because it is a fundamental principle of international law that solves such matters of maritime demarcation. And this line will end somewhere where there is now a delimitation with the Italian sea and will not end in international waters. Anyone who looks at the map sees this very clearly. In this way, you will never retain this right, which you say you have throughout history. So do not insist on some frameworks where you will be limited to international law. The only thing that will enable Slovenia to develop its argument, which was largely collected in the White Paper or when the White Paper was being produced, is a solution outside the tough framework of international law. And in such cases, the Statute of the Hague Court provides for a resolution based on the principle of external justice. I can read here the expertise written by Dr. Vlačič and Dr. Grbec, where you are pledging by how Slovenia must not leave this issue to any third party to decide without this principle. Back then, during our term of office, our government or our then coalition would have been horrifying to agree to an agreement without "ex aequo et bono". Just because this principle was not explicitly mentioned at the Bled press conference, there was a nice number of protests at the next meeting when we discussed these matters with the presidents of all parliamentary parties. Only when it was clear that no agreement had been reached there, except that we were trying to reach an agreement on an agreement that would have more than two-thirds support in both countries, did these passions calm down. No one in the opposition today used the same or harsh words of condemnation as we listened to them at the time, and it was totally unjustifiable. What happens if you have strong reasoning and documentation, and those who judge your right simply don't consider it, we could see Slovenians during the post-World War II period at the Paris Peace Conference. At that time we prepared for that peace conference extremely extensive and good documentation, some copies of this documentation still exist, with detailed maps, in fact all villages in the Furlania-Julia landscape, all the way to Dalmatia and Istria. For every village in this territory, exactly how many people there are. It says what schools are there, what is the economic structure. A number of historical documents, documentation on which Slovenia today should have both Trieste, Gorica and Istria, are attached. Take a look at this documentation and you'll see how many villages in Istria had even the Croatian population in 1947. What happened? All this argument was simply not taken into account because it was decided on the basis of other principles. Today, Slovenia has neither Gorica nor Trieste. And now we're even talking about someone else deciding whether or not we even have territorial contact with international waters. It's like we've learned nothing from these historical experiences. When Slovenia also agreed to try to resolve the issue of the border between Slovenia and Croatia with the help of a third, it did so on the basis, as I said before, of some almost complete political consensus in Slovenia, by very clearly defining the conditions under which we can submit to this company. However, the agreement did not end at this point. When, on the basis of the principle agreement to try to find a framework for an agreement, we set up two mixed border commissions and a legal framework, the opposition also took part in both commissions. Some ministers in the current government have also participated in these commissions. They negotiated, and I, as Prime Minister of the Government, did not negotiate. Mr. Wlačič says nothing was achieved at the time. He's talking about himself. He was a member of this commission that negotiated. I'm supposed to negotiate better, but maybe we should move on. However, hand to heart, no one pushed them, time did not work for Croatia, but worked for us. We did not want to bring any anxiety into these negotiations. And just at a time when the situation almost completely turned to the Slovenian benefit, when, by the logic of things, it would have to come to some smart, rational agreement where Slovenia would not risk what risks in this agreement, there would have been solute, that a decade-long policy of consensus on these issues had been abandoned in Slovenia. We read in the Croatian press that an agreement is being signed, and then in the Croatian press we read the first draft of this agreement and then we were informed of this text, which was practically ad acta, agreed. If this is a smart policy, we can really wonder what the criteria for such a smart policy are. When the Prime Minister of the Government first listed what Slovenia would get if he ratified this agreement at the referendum - read this magnetogram - he counted two things. Between these two things, there is no territorial access to the open sea. Not once did he say that the Government ensures that Slovenia will maintain this access. No other government representative has said that either. Some coalition MPs said that, but you couldn't quote what the Prime Minister said. The President of the Government said that Slovenia would receive a good image in the region and would be commended in Europe for that. Does anyone else remember the image that Slovenia got 90 years ago when it lost Koroski plebiscite?Oh, my God! No one remembers what the image was then. And the boundaries that stood at that time still stand today. And our national territory was reduced to some vital parts of the territory and of the population because of a foolish Ljubljana policy 90 years ago. Part of a similar story then followed after World War II, and now we are about to take another step that will shorten us for the third time. It must be understood that a country that has the right to declare sovereign belts in international waters is a maritime state, that the state is in the full sense of the word of sovereignty, that it is not a deprived state, as our President writes in his books on international law or some other lawyers who have participated in the preparation of this text of the agreement. It should also be borne in mind that for the first time, as colleague Tanka has said before, the border between Slovenia and Croatia with the entry of Croatia into the European Union will not disappear, only customs will be eliminated. Croatia's entry into the Schengen area can be expected at the same time as the entry of most Western Balkan countries, not only into the European Union, but also into the Schengen area, due to the complexity of the situation at their borders. It will be decades before the Western Balkan countries enter the Schengen area. Maybe never. Even if this happens, where are the guarantees that once the borders that are losing in Europe, at least in part, in their meaning, will not be as important again as they were decades ago? We also need to think about future generations. The European Union is not God's kingdom and will not exist forever, much can happen in the life of our generation, let alone in the life of future generations. And the decisions that are being taken today will also have an impact on them, such as the 5,000 votes that have been missing from the Koroška plebiscite, which has been permanently marked by the Slovenian people and also by the Slovenian country, now that we have it. Look at the map and make sure you don't believe. This is a very important question. We can easily give up on someone, I would say, the image of an obedient, good player in the region for two months and maintain vital Slovenian national interests. The one who will put on one side of the scale of image with which he is obviously obsessed - in all dimensions and on the other side the territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea does not even know what is the solution of state problems. I would like to conclude once again that I will not return to this subject. I call upon all those who compare the Blaze Agreement and this arbitration agreement to show both of you that we will see what you are comparing. In particular, some members of the coalition who were barely born 20 years ago find it difficult to listen when they use things or signs for events and things that were not in each other's sentences. This is where you need to be corrected. We do not deny this government good intentions at the beginning of this mandate when it has started to solve this problem, but then, at some point, political interest and benefit have prevailed over national benefits. What we have heard, even by the Minister, is that there was no step forward in the previous mandate and that the alternative to this agreement is to continue some conflict situation. That's not true either. Not one, not the other. For the first time, signed by both governments and to a large extent respected was the Briony Declaration. The Briony Declaration brought the situation back to 25. 6. 1991, not this agreement. With the Briony Declaration, the Croatian Government has committed itself not to take any more unilateral steps and has also committed itself to the fact that none of them, which was created after the independence of both countries, is legally valid. Don't forget that, even if someone was abroad at the time and wasn't monitoring it. And over the last five years of this declaration, with the exception of the dispute at Mirište, which we have resolved in favour of Slovenia, there have been no incidents. The persistent problem of Mr Joras, who was unable to cross Slovenian territory to his parcel and his house, was also resolved, and he no longer has to walk across the Croatian border crossing, nor climb through the flowerbed. This is not a big deal in the dimension of the whole thing, but it is still a problem that was earlier every other day on the front pages of newspapers and on breaking news television reports. The alternative to rejecting this arbitration agreement in the referendum is not to continue conflicts because there are no such conflicts. Previously, one of the Members spoke about how we sometimes experienced complete trade and economic blockades on the part of Croatia. Never since Slovenia existed has Croatia introduced any trade or economic blockade. The time of our term of office has been able to achieve respect for the principle of reciprocity in the acquisition of real estate. Today Slovenian citizens can buy real estate in Croatia as well as Croatian property in Croatia. That wasn't possible before. This has been achieved by Slovenia without anyone actually noticing, except those who purchase these properties. And much has changed in that time, and there has been no conflict, and even now there is no need. Even some headless, unwarranted blockades of Croatian negotiations make no sense in the event that an agreement falls, to enforce them again, because this government has once used them unwisely and it is not possible to repeat them, nor would it make sense. However, it will be necessary to make use of the time available to vote on the Croatian entry into the European Union or to vote on the ratification of the Croatian accession treaty in order to find a better agreement, one of the two alternatives. You'll tell me what kind of agreement would be better. We made comments on Rehn's second proposal, that text was acceptable to us, so you have an alternative to an agreement that would be acceptable to us, but no one asked us when you negotiated or signed. In any event, an agreement which would be acceptable to Slovenia and which would transfer certain borders to an international institution should contain the determination of the entire limit, not any external justice contact, or a framework should already be laid down in the agreement which clearly states that Slovenia has territorial contact with international waters. No, but let's just set it up. And in this case, according to the current agreement, it doesn't say territorial contact, it writes contact, it can be anything, and we all know that. If it were not, of course Croatia would not have led us to write territorially and so it would have written. But since Slovenia has given in, of course, this does not say so. It is possible to avoid the explicit mention of "ex aeque et bono" in the agreement, but then it must be described a situation such as today when Slovenia has territorial access to international waters. Croatia disputes this, but Slovenia has never formally allowed itself to take this right. Of course, there is another option that is even faster. Once, an agreement has been negotiated that Croatia has not ratified. If she's in a hurry, have him ratified and the problem solved. So there are two alternatives, and within that first, if the border issue is solved by someone else, there are two variants that are more or less detailed, so don't talk about what alternatives are. The last time we watched the transfer, we listened to the Prime Minister of the Government who took half an hour and the Members had one minute to consider the law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement, which he repeated ten times for that speaker: 'Those who oppose this agreement, tell us what the alternative is.' You couldn't do that in one minute. There are at least two alternatives. I hope that they can be used when, at least I am so sure, most healthy people in Slovenia reject this poor arbitration agreement at the referendum. Even if, as some have said, Croatia does not show any great willingness for further negotiations, this is not our problem. It is not Slovenia that negotiates to join the European Union, there is no need for any anxiety on our part. We have all the time at our disposal, and Slovenia can also avoid conflicts. After the signing of the Briony Declaration, we solved things in such a way that there were no grounds on our part for any conflict without giving in anywhere. We know the history of referendums, older and newer in the European Union, and we know what the reactions of the international community are, and we do not need to raise undue concerns from this point of view. One more time. The arbitration agreement before us today is by no means the same as it is. And because it is as it is, it is no coincidence that neither the competent profession in Slovenia nor the opposition was invited to prepare it. So the plan was mainly in tight circles, as we then listened to on television for his defence, by people who wrote in a few years a valid version of the maritime code that Slovenia is a territorially disadvantaged country. Trusting in such a person’s borderline problem involves giving up a good outcome in advance. We are also hearing that some of those who advocate this thesis that Slovenia is a territorially disadvantaged country are participating in these online groups that will support the Slovenian member of the arbitration tribunal if the ratification of this agreement, of course, takes place. This is going to be a really tough fight for Slovenian interests. The only solution, although there are also formal concerns, which I have already mentioned at the outset, is the fact that we are actually sending a law to the referendum, which is disabled, because it was adopted by an insufficient majority. One legal opinion on daily political use, when it comes to how such things are ratified by the general majority, does not convince anyone, especially regardless of the practice in force in the National Assembly, when we have decided on significantly less important matters with a two-thirds majority. So there are formal concerns about sending such a law to the referendum, but since this is the only solution, we will vote in favour. I am sure that the Slovenians will then tell their own about this agreement at the referendum with a very clear majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Border issues between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia have been burdening relations and cooperation for almost 20 years, which is certainly damaging to both countries. Even though we were never actually hostile as neighbors, there was no great positive atmosphere. And at the very least, what needs to be learned is the fact that people at the border feel uneasy, uneasy, and eagerly await the arrangement of this legacy after the collapse of the former common country. It is an inheritance that the heirs are not pure about certain matters, and each one understands it in his own way. The attempts so far to resolve this issue were such that we did not come anywhere, because both sides somehow demanded something that was not acceptable to the other and remained open until the story began with Croatia's entry into the European Union. As the discretionary right of our country is one that could severely restrict Croatia's entry, however, it has listened differently to talk and, lastly, to agree within the arbitration agreement on how to resolve the border issue. Since the two countries could not agree on their own, the arbitration should be decided on the basis of all the relevant grounds to be offered or presented by both parties. I do not see an ideal solution in this agreement alone. Surely, however, the attempt to resolve the issue in this way is better than the fact that, with the same views as it has been applied to this agreement, it would certainly not have come anywhere for the next 20 years and would still remain open. Certain things for Croatia have certainly been regulated even beyond the open question of borders, but it cannot be argued that economic relations in particular are at a level that could be in one better atmosphere of neighbourly relations and of the widest cooperation. For this reason, I think it is right to support this agreement, and I am surprised to see the signing of the request for a referendum by all those who have not voted on the matter at all. When it comes to a subsequent referendum, Members shall require the confirmation of their electorate or nationals as to their decision. And that was not on the side of half the signatories. And they have postponed their task of deciding on behalf of the electorate in one way or another to the electorate, and now they expect no one to wonder why they did not vote alone - against or in favour of this agreement. That is why they will not actually test their own decision through the will of the people at the subsequent referendum, but they want the people to decide for them. Then they'll all be smart. That's not working. We have understood the matter by being voters, we have decided on the matter and now we want to test the referendum whether we did the right thing or not. In doing so, I hope that the referendum will succeed in this respect, in order to confirm the agreement. I think that, although years from now, not so fast, this problem will be resolved, but by that time both countries will have other issues at their disposal that are vital to this region, I can say, for both countries and less time, with this open question, which will be the last word of arbitration. I believe that the final solution will be enough to meet our expectations. That is why I will also support the matter on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the referendum. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolarič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues. For 20 years now, as we have heard, relations between Slovenia and Croatia have been strained because of border problems. They've been saving themselves for years, but they've failed. And today we have heard again that we still have time for what is 20 years, but we will wait a little longer, postpone the decision on arbitration and wait for some better times, with some conflict situation on our border, possibly a conflict situation. I have to say that I can probably talk because I'm a little older than my colleagues who were talking about not knowing the situation for the last 20 years. Personally, I have been participating in these interviews for at least 15, 16 years, at one level or another, on the resolution of the border between Slovenia and Croatia. I must say that this was the first time in 1995, at a conference of mayors of Central and South-East Europe and their ambassadors in Vienna, where I was sent by the then mayor of Ljubljana, Mr Rupl, who taught me if there is a border resolution agreement, let me just say that this matter is being resolved and that it will be resolved as soon as possible. Since then, it has been about 15, 16 years, and I hope that we have only reached the point where we can say that we have completed one phase. I must say that in these 15, 16 years I have met many colleagues in Croatia, both Slovenians living in Croatia and from the cultural society Bazovica to the Slovenes in Zagreb and Split, and we have always ended up discussing the resolution of the border issue, as well as other open issues. I also participated in several economic conferences in Croatia when we presented ourselves as a Slovenian economy, together with representatives of the capital city, and, you want not, we have always ended up on the issue of the border dispute, if we can call it that. I must say that I was pleased to press the button on April 19th that we had adopted the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not with closed eyes, as we, the coalition, were clear that we had pressed this with our eyes closed and our fist pressed. I don't know. I usually celebrate the winnings with my fist squeezed down, and I don't know why I'd press with my fist clenched, but then I celebrate the winnings. And of course I hope it was one of our victories. And I will be happy to press today for a decision on the call for a referendum, and I hope that when the outcome of the referendum is counted in the evening on 6 June, the outcome of the referendum will be positive and that the arbitration agreement will be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I think it makes sense, however, that today in the National Assembly we end this difficult path, which we started many years ago, that you started many years ago some or others started, and that by the decision of the referendum we give people the opportunity to tell them about the decision that the National Assembly has already taken. And that is the decision that it is time to reach an agreement. In general, it is time to reach an agreement with such an arbitration agreement, which is the best that Slovenia has negotiated so far. Best because it sets out the principle of regularity in a descriptive way, that is to say, it gives more flexibility than "this international law", which is precisely what the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party wants. It provides that Slovenia has contact with international waters, and Croatia has also agreed to do so, and therefore requires the arbitral tribunal only to determine where this contact is. And a great step forward from the Briony Agreement, which was mentioned a few minutes ago, which in fact did not specify anything, destroyed any meaning of the then initial Drnovšek - Račan agreement. And above all, it is an opportunity to complete the closure with a period where instead of discussing economic cooperation, the joint development and solutions that will benefit people in Slovenia and Croatia, we have dealt with floral troughs, simulated falls into rivers and discussions - yes - but discussions about incidents via mobile phones. The President of the Slovenian Democratic Party makes it clear to some Members that we were barely born 20 years ago. Well, it's not like that, but he was then the Republican Secretary for Human Defence in the first Slovenian government. And if anyone was able to negotiate as many Slovenia as possible in 1991 that today it would not be necessary to deal with the checkpoints on Dragonja, but with Kaštěl, this is exactly the government in which Mr Janša participated, which did not insist on putting the Croatian checkpoint at Kaštěl at the top of the hill, but allowed and accepted that Croatia had put it right next to Dragonja. And this status quo has just continued with the development that we know well, and this arbitration agreement finally cuts it off. It has also been said that Slovenia has never, or the previous government, and Prime Minister Janez Janša has never agreed to the Hague, which, as we all agree, is certainly a worse option than the arbitral tribunal established by this arbitration agreement. It just doesn't hold. I have in my hands Croatia's negotiating points with the European Union of October 2005, which clearly set out in point 13 that Croatia will peacefully resolve border disputes. And in the event that it fails, it will resolve it by using services, in the notes, of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. And this negotiating venue has been agreed by Slovenia, as these negotiating points have been confirmed by all the Member States of the European Union. So, not only in Bled, when it was clear and explicit about The Hague, but before and on a signed and validated document, Slovenia has already agreed that if there is no solution, it will go to The Hague to resolve the border between Slovenia and Croatia. So, on 3 October 2005, The Hague was fine, and today we hear that we must go as far away from international law as possible. We went a lot wider because we negotiated an arbitral tribunal which is significantly more favourable to Slovenian interests than the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It is interesting that this development is somehow linked to whether someone is in a position of responsibility in the government or in the opposition, where the question of the responsible or irresponsible opposition is open. When Mr Janša was in the position of responsibility, he agreed to the negotiating venues and agreed to the Hague, he agreed to the principle agreement in Bled, where international law and international law were also mentioned. Now, some 180-degree facility, rather through opposition to the blockade, so we stay with The Hague and the non-blocking, and now "no" to the arbitration agreement, if it's bad. I must say that Mr Janša reminds me a little of Joseph Wisman when he played Dr. Noah in the first James Bond film. At that time Dr. No tried to undermine the space flight, and this time our Dr. No is trying to undermine the Slovenian and Croatian flights among the European stars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will, of course, support the motion for a decree because I have also contributed my signature to it, but I will vote against the arbitration agreement in the referendum. There are very few referendums such as the one ahead of us in Slovenia. It's a historical decision, and maybe you could even say it's some kind of referendum, just because of the importance that this referendum will have. We've had two plebiscites of this kind in history. One was the one where we decided to become a independent, independent state of Slovenia, and thank God, this plebiscite we got. The second was the celebration of 90 years in 1920 — Koroška plebiscite, which, unfortunately, we lost. And this Koroski plebiscite fell because of the Slovenians, because in the then plebiscite zone the Slovenian population was the majority and the Slovenians voted for the Republic of Austria, they voted against the Kingdom of SHS, which was in some way understandable at the time. At that time, at the time before the plebiscite, there were Serb troops in Austria who were sowing terror. Today, as mentioned here, the government of Ljubljana's power and its calculus is in some way impotent. At the time of the plebiscite, there were various manipulations, both in electoral directories and in voting. And what's interesting: the crucial role of Koroska plebiscite was then social democracy. And if we return to today, even in this House, in this government has a decisive word today for social democracy, or the Social Democrats. I hope history doesn't repeat itself here. And today, Slovenians in Austria's Koroška, face known problems, in some ways waiting for that last act of assimilation. And of course, unfortunately, with every new country in Slovenia, it is becoming increasingly smaller and we can fear that this arbitration agreement will also lose part of Slovenia's territory. Although the government predicts that we will be winners, but you celebrated the ratification of the arbitration agreement with your hands down, you did not celebrate the ratification with your hands up. Obviously, you or yourself do not believe that this agreement is good. I have a feeling that, despite all your assurances here today and in the past, you have been bitten by some worm of uncertainty. Of course, we have to ask the Slovenians and Slovenes and they will wonder whether we can trust this government. See, at the beginning of the term of office, in this coalition, this government was told by the Slovenian public that this government would provide high moral criteria to respect or cultivate the cult of truth. Behind that counter, we heard various exhibits relating to the philosopher Hannah Arendt. It was about politics, about lies, about the truth in politics. But with the Ultra affair we got here legally and typically a lie in politics. And this has also become the paradigm of this government. The government has promised a different economic policy, a prosperity for everyone. But unemployment has grown from 60,000 to 100,000 or less recently. The government also said media freedom would increase. However, ladies and gentlemen, in the first year of Borut Pahor's government, the newspaper-free scale saw a fall in seven cities, from 30th to 37th place. In these days you were able to read the latest company house survey, which tells us that during last year, during the government of Borut Pahor, Slovenia slipped from 49th to 52nd place. Can we trust this government that's been talking about how it's going to deal with corruption? On the Transparency International scale, Slovenia slipped again, and just in the time of the government of Borut Pahor. You've predicted it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Dear colleague Friday, don't get too far from the subject or explain [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Yeah, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u81	In the context of the arbitration agreement, I would like to hear that too. [[...]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u82	It's all in the context, Mr. President. Look, today you're predicting that we're going to have territorial contact with the open sea with arbitration, but all of what I've read and what you've interrupted, I haven't even counted, all of this goes into the category of unfulfilled promises of this government. Whether Slovenian citizens and citizens can believe this government that the arbitration agreement is what you are talking about. You're speaking a conscious lie, and a consciously uttered lie is a lie - nothing else. I told myself at one of the OZP meetings that the status quo is better than this high probability that this Piran Bay will be finally handed over to the Croats. Borut Pahor said today, once, twice that if the arbitration agreement was not confirmed at the referendum and that it would remain as it is that it is compatible. I don't believe it. 90 years ago, we lost Austria's Koroška. And we lost her once and for all, there's no going back. Borut Pahor also said that we risk international reputation, prestige if this ratification at the referendum is rejected. Please, did the Irish risk prestige/review when they rejected the Treaty of Lisbon?Oh, my God! No, no one did anything to them, they went to the referendum again, and nothing happened. In the international public, we will gain only if we show our backs and if we do not agree to some kind of cow trade that is happening today. And finally, there's something else about happy people, and we can see that you're very happy, you're very happy, you're very happy, you're very happy. Here it was said that in addition to happy people, more wise people would be needed. And as far as wisdom is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that we have a very wise government in Slovenia today. But blue only because of the bruises, because we're bumping our heads into a wall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 86 Members and Members have been signed under the request for an ex-post legislative referendum. My signature is also under this requirement, especially for one reason, because we have decided together, that is, together or if we are more precise because this referendum was somehow forced and we know that all of us who signed under this requirement. Personally, I think that a better solution would be a better decision if we were already deciding on a referendum, our initial decision, is a decision for a previous consultation referendum. In doing so, I would like to recall the position of the President of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk, who thought it would have been better months ago if the sequence of events were different. An act of ratification of an international agreement is a final act in the conclusion of an international treaty. And, as the President has said at that time, it would be most appropriate for ratification to take place at the end, after all political actions have been committed and everything has been said. But now it's what it is. The Government had a similar position until recently, which is that it is right for people to ask for their opinion on such important matters as the Arbitration Agreement before deciding in the National Assembly and to take their opinion into account. But, as we say, this is behind us now. In the end, a different decision and a different path were taken. Is that the right way? Is the decision blue? And what will be the outcome of our decision? We're going to find out this answer very soon. I hope we don't close our doors with this, but we'll open new ones. And today something has already been said about taking responsibility. This government has taken responsibility. She took responsibility for a good arbitration agreement. But something else is to talk about legitimacy, and if we were to seek legitimacy, it would probably be more appropriate to look for it sooner. But there will be no doubt. I will definitely go to this referendum and vote in favour of a good arbitration agreement. However, I must say that I am concerned, I am concerned that Slovenian policy will be able to properly, comprehensively and, above all, to put the argument aside, why this arbitration agreement is good and why it is right to confirm it. I wonder if in today's debate we have contributed to making people's decision at the referendum easier and more meaningful. I don't think so. Because the referendum campaign started today. It started in this Chamber and according to today's debate, this campaign will be sharp and will obviously not only operate on arguments but also on demagogies. We've seen this before, and some are very good at it. I don't think it's the right time for some thunderous calls for populism, but it's time for sobriety and reason. The signatures under the invitation to tender for the referendum at first sight do indicate unity. At first sight. For for this seeming unity lies unanimity. Let's be honest. About half of the signatories consider the arbitration agreement to be good. The other half thinks he's bad. I'd like to point out four things in particular. I don't think the inequality we're witnessing is the best way to get a referendum. I believe that all aspects of the arbitration agreement will need to be clarified very precisely by the electorate and the electorate. I fear that this referendum campaign, like any other, will be dominated by populist demagogist attacks that will overrule the arguments. And I wonder if it's a good thing we don't know what's gonna happen next. What happens if the voters say no? I personally wish to say that we would support a good arbitration agreement. It is true, however, that the referendum campaign will flood many matters that have nothing to do with this important issue. Today, this hall is about convincing the believers. Let us not forget, we have to convince Slovenian citizens and citizens, and since we have arguments, this should not be difficult. The resolution of the border dispute is undoubtedly in the interest of all of us, and it is only right that all of us who will participate in this campaign be aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know how to turn that much drama into political motivation in the national interest. That's why I'm not here. That's why I'm not here. I think that quite a few things have been said, especially by Mr Janša, that it is right for me to react to them. First, on possible alternatives in case the referendum falls. Ambassador Janša mentioned two. One is to return to Drnovšek-Račan and Croatia will sign this. First of all, it'd be a lot easier if there wasn't a brionic agreement. Secondly, this is also possible in the arbitration agreement it is even written that at any time the parties can return to bilateral talks and in this case we can also return to the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. This option is open. Secondly, he said, new negotiations - for the first time, I very much doubt that it is possible to conclude new negotiations within six months when the Croatian accession treaty is ready for signature and there will be a need for agreement by the National Assembly to sign this treaty. But even if we go, he put two conditions there, like in the new negotiations. One is that we're talking about territorial contact, not contact. I don't think there's any other contact like territorial contact. From cases that are in international practice, it is clear that the contact "junction", as defined, defines contact with multiple borders, more watercourses or more boundaries at sea, in case we have contact with three boundaries "three Junction point", is the true contact of three borders at sea. It's just territorial contact. There can be no other contact. You will remember that in "Rehn 2" there was another term, there was a "contact" that you can translate here as a contact, but then there was also a "contact" in the conversations that we had here with Slovenia, thought that this could be this contact that you are reading to us now, it could be some direct contact, something that connects, can also be via a third. And that's why we insisted that the contact change. And that's why "junction" came in, the word used in the Drnovšek-Račan agreement and defines exactly what we want, the direct territorial contact of the Slovenian sea with the open sea. So there's no dilemma here. This contact is a territorial contact and I think that this should not be the reason for someone to vote against the arbitration agreement. And another requires that the entire border be decided in accordance with the principle of external justice. First of all, it is likely that we need to see if we can benefit from deciding the land border on the principle of righteousness. I don't know, I guess we should take a look. All lawyers do not agree that this is good for Slovenia, that the land border is set according to too many principles of justice. And secondly, the decision as I said before will be only one and will cover one line that will set the limits at sea, on land, on the sea and contact. That'll be one line at the end. It is said that in the end this line will be determined in accordance with the principle of fairness or all of the elements listed in the agreement to be decided by the courts. And as I understood Mr Janša, he was talking about that if there was a territorial contact there instead of a contact, then we could go into the substantive definition of justice, external justice, not necessarily in ex aequo et bono. After that, I really don't see why anyone would vote against this agreement, because this is all already in this agreement. Then again, the difference between the Interstate Court and the Arbitration Tribunal. And I'm going to repeat myself because it was here about this speech. The International Court of Justice in The Hague shall act only on the basis of a statute which has been adopted long ago and which shall, inter alia, refer to the possibility of deciding ex aequo et bono in Article 38(2). That's why we were talking about The Hague, even ex aequo et bono, because that's the only way you're trying to bring this external justice, as we call it, to judge, and whatever it is. For the judges should first define what righteousness is under this external right. In the case of an arbitral tribunal, to repeat, we ourselves set the statutes of this tribunal to say so, and this statute is this agreement. And that's why we wrote in this agreement, rather than letting the judges decide for themselves what ex aequo et bono is, we gave them our own instructions as to what ex aequo et bono is or what elements they should take into account when deciding. Then there's a few more elements. It was said that the blockade was a weapon that the Government had already used and that was also said by Mr Grims, the Grimes of earlier times. The blockade didn't start with this government. I would just like to recall once again that the first blockade of the Croatian accession negotiations took place in October 2008 before this government took its place. The Briony Declaration and the determination that the situation on 25 June 1991 is already there, but not only in this Agreement. I would point to one important difference between the Briony Declaration and this agreement. In the Briony Declaration, each country, Slovenia, Croatia, interpreted differently the agreement that was in Briony. Croatia strictly insisted that it applied only to land, because only there was a border, there was no border at sea, so the status quo did not apply at sea and therefore they insisted on the half line automatically from the Jamaica Convention. In this agreement, however, the situation at 25. 6, status quo at 25. 6. 1991 refers to the entire area, the disputed area, namely the land and the sea. That's the big added value. And secondly, that all the acts and all the documents that Croatia has accepted or both sides have not, only we do not have, after 25 June 1991, are null and void for court decisions. And it is extremely important that all these actions that have taken place cannot be used for the benefit of Croatia. I have not mentioned that the rejection of the agreement also means the continuation of conflicts. I said that rejection of the agreement means continuation of the status quo, which is extremely bad for Slovenia. I don't think any court, but if it doesn't decide on any principle of justice, it can't rule less than status quo. The status quo is extremely bad for Slovenia and as long as it lasts, it will be worse because once in the future it can then be used as an argument before a court. The White Paper, of course, is an important material to be used in the preparation of the Memorandum. Certainly not all the material in this white book. There's a couple of documents left outside, but that's absolutely not enough. And now that we're talking to foreign lawyers, they want a lot more than in this white book, we need a lot more evidence. Speaking of the Paris Peace Conference, I do not think it is right to compare the Paris Peace Conference with this arbitration agreement. The Paris conference was a political conference and there all our arguments that these were Slovenian villages, Slovenian territory, historically and so on were not taken into account. But not because there were bad arguments, or because the principles were not followed, or because we were not heard, no, but because the great ones were making decisions. It was a political conference. This time it is a trial at the arbitration tribunal and the arguments will be taken into account, or evidence, by the judges. The call was to show the agreement that was prepared at the time for negotiations with Croatia. We can take a look. We can make it public. This is an agreement, which was a Slovenian version of an agreement never agreed on by the Croatian side. We can also try to make clear the Croatian text of this agreement so that we can compare how far apart both sides have been in coordinating a common agreement. For "ex aequo et bono" I would only add this because many foreign international lawyers were mentioned, that they had been consulted in the past and that they were saying "ex aequo et bono" means. I think there are very different opinions as to what international lawyers, foreign lawyers, were saying at the time. I first told myself what I read from my own notes, but above all it is important that these international foreign lawyers have now made a very positive assessment of the agreement, concluded and essentially congratulated Slovenia for having succeeded in bringing all these elements of fairness into this agreement. So much for these foreign international experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Today, so much has been said that it is probably quite difficult to perform without repeating itself. I'd like to avoid it myself, so I'll say so. Several times in the past few days it was heard that Janša went to Bled there to deal with the Hague court, only then came to Parliament or the competent working bodies. I think, gentlemen, that's not true, I participated in all those meetings, from which you also declared some of the magnetograms secret and then accused someone of betraying official secrecy. Three such meetings, I remember, I was their vocation, the organizer, the technical organizer, led by the then Prime Minister Janez Janša and at all three meetings you were all for except the Slovenian National Party. You were all for those steps that were taken at the time, but he said himself that the Bled Agreement, which would lead Slovenia to The Hague, had never been, but that it was completely different, so I will not repeat his words. I know that many times I also postponed and coordinated those meetings, because he told me many times, without the leader of the biggest opposition party, we will not meet in order to have him present. But you know that he was in Brussels and that it has been many times to adjust these things so that you do not deceive the public, but be correct and objective. Perhaps one added value; the Prime Minister of the Government said in the opening act, whenever Slovenian police officers went over half of the Bay of Piran, Croatia protested. Whether it's the Minister or it's the Member or whoever it is, when I have the evidence, I say he's lying. I can't say this to the Prime Minister, but I'm gonna say he's badly deceived. Mr. Foreign Minister, please let him know if you'll listen to me, of course. On the day of Ivan Kramberger's murder, in early June 1992, I was appointed chief of police administration in Cyprus. As part of my visits to police stations, I also visited the seaside police station, and they showed me the work area where they work, which is the maritime border or territory they control at sea. We drove into that bay near the Fat Rtice to the borderline, and then they took me across the border across the entire area, which was controlled by the Slovenian police. This is also at a point 100 meters from the Saudi coast and we sailed nicely towards the border crossing 100 meters from the coast. At the time of my management of the Koper Police Department, which has not been long, I was never informed that the police boats, Croatian, would come anywhere across this line. And ours were 100 meters a day off that coast of Saudi Arabia. So the Prime Minister does not have accurate information, and I would be very happy to have someone alert him to that. So that's not true what he said in the opening act. Let me just touch it, we know that the word "junction" is used in the agreement, so contact. Let Minister Wlačič Malone talk about the corridor as if it were written somewhere. It's not written anywhere, so you're deceiving it, or you had the Minister's wrong agreement in your hands when you read it. However, I am very disturbed that again, I must say, I am extremely disturbed by the resurgence of some incidents over mobile phones. I would be very happy, the President of the National Assembly, that I can now explain the whole situation as it really was and we both know it, and we have come to the data on the legal path, and I cannot and cannot and will not. However, it would be good for those who speak and discuss it to consult with those who have such information. However, the situation is simply such that we are on opposite shores and, of course, in the hope that we will convince Slovenian voters to vote against this agreement, the arguments were enough, of course we can expect the date of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The important difference between what we are talking about today and what we have been monitoring, for example, in the previous term, is that we have somehow met in the previous term with conflicts at the border, either on land or at sea, many times we have been able to monitor the footage of our special police units in bulletproof vests, armed and so on. Even at sea, these incidents have always been present, and this is what we are actually preventing with this arbitration agreement, and I cannot really get rid of the feeling that, last but not least, the obstruction itself in the vote on the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we have adopted in the wake of the obstruction of the opposition, shows that they are not actually prepared to vote on the commitment to peaceful settlement of disputes in the spirit of good-neighbourly relations, taking into account the vital interests of the countries. This is what is already recorded in the preamble to the arbitration agreement. Clearly, the difference between today’s and the previous government is that the former has been better ruled in conflict situations, and this does not want conflict situations, but wants to solve them in a peaceful way, in the spirit of good-neighbourly relations. We also met many times with the fact that, after 25 June 1991, border crossings also took place that border points were moved to Slovenian territory. Therefore, a number of solutions were adopted unilaterally, to the detriment of Slovenia. In this agreement we have destroyed all of this, we have destroyed it in a peaceful manner. And this is one of the most important achievements in the period since we are not least trying to agree on how to resolve this border issue. Therefore, all procedures, all documents which have been unilaterally adopted during this period, are invalid. If we remember only the documents prepared by Croatia at the time of the pre-accession negotiations or the accession of Croatia to the European Union, in fact, we can find that almost every document, where possible, has introduced a provision that was detrimental to Slovenia, particularly in the loss of territory of Slovenia. All this has been resolved by this Agreement. In fact, we do not have many conflict situations left to resolve this dispute, for what is still incontrovertible is very clearly set to be decided by the arbitral tribunal. The contact of Slovenia with the high seas is what the arbitral tribunal will determine. So contact with the open sea of Slovenia will be enabled. In today’s situation, we can talk about not knowing how this issue is resolved and how it can be resolved tomorrow. Will the conflict be resolved? I hope not. The whole series of other provisions in this arbitration agreement really makes us feel that we must not only invite all those who will come to the referendum to support this arbitration agreement, but that, last but not least, as a policy, we are much more responsible about what is precisely mentioned in this arbitration agreement and what is not. Creation of facts is harmful for both today and tomorrow's development of Slovenia. Some very clear distinctions between what the Brijuni Agreement brings, what the Drnovšek-Račan Agreement brings, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already presented, suggest that it is not possible to refer simply to certain documents, which were obviously not well presented in the public, and even less accepted on the one hand or on the other, in a way that is acceptable for one country or another. Therefore, to reach the point where both countries can agree on what is enshrined in the arbitration agreement is certainly the most policy can achieve during this period. That is why I think we can congratulate both the President of the Croatian Government and the President of the Slovenian Government that they have taken an extraordinary step by calming their passions and by advocating to resolve the vital interests of both Slovenia and Croatia. It is to understand that it is Croatia's vital interest to enter the European Union and Slovenia's vital interest to have contact with the open sea. And of course all of this is very clearly recorded in this arbitration agreement. The arguments presented by the opposition today that this agreement should not be supported simply do not depend on exactly any article of this arbitration agreement, and I think that this is unfair to all others who might wish to follow these instructions. In short, much more responsible, I think it is only necessary to act on the part of the opposition, and if we can talk about the government not being able to make a decision - the government has decided, it can make a decision. Clearly, the opposition does not know and wants to place this on the electorate, on those who will participate in the referendum, irresponsibly. And it is this indecisiveness that Slovenia does not need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Almost 20 years of efforts to resolve the issues at the Slovenian-Croatian border in agreement did not lead to regulation. On the contrary, there have been incidents that have had a negative impact on good-neighbourly relations and thus hindered cooperation in the field of economy, trade, culture, politics, dialogue. At times, a fugitive could not help but feel that the border was a means of obtaining political points at each time of the elections. Such events, only passive resolution of them, have undermined Slovenia's reputation in Europe and the world. The determination of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia to break with almost 20 years of border policy has led to an arbitration agreement. What its significance is for the Republic of Slovenia is, is perfectly recorded by Constitutional Judge Jan Zląb, who was also joined by the Constitutional Court's Constitutional Judge mags in an acquittal opinion. Marija Krisper Kramberger, I quote: "In the conclusion of the agreement I see therefore the last and final act of our country's independence, which will bring a lasting solution to the border issue in a constitutionally consistent manner and thus peace in inter-neighbourly relations. Any postponement of the solution to this extremely important issue is, in essence, unconstitutional, because it opposes requirements in the determination and stability of borders, because it does not comply with the principles of international law which the State has undertaken to respect in the process of self-reliance. Definitively defined and stable borders are the conditions of these principles and, on the contrary, indeterminate and vague and controversial borders are a permanent source of disagreements, disputes, provocations, incidents and all possible tensions and a serious obstacle to peaceful and good co-existence between the neighbours of the country. Finally, because, during the period of independence, the Republic of Croatia extended power to a significant part of the territory, which belongs to the Republic of Slovenia in terms of international law and principles. For all these reasons, the arbitration agreement is the first and true step towards the settlement of the border dispute and its elimination of the unilaterally imposed and internationally unacceptable situation." Another very interesting opinion from long-standing Ambassador Peter Toš: "The request of Mr Janez Janša, the champion of the opposition that the signed agreement should be cancelled and new negotiations on how to resolve the border begin are an expression of the current unconstructive attitude of the political opposition towards the coalition and the government, as it creates ongoing affairs and political conflicts, thereby hampering the joint responsibility of both to effectively regulate and resolve the main internal and external political issues, including the ratification of the arbitration agreement. This request must be deliberately exposed and strongly rejected." Dear colleagues, living along the border is a little more difficult in situations that have reigned over the last few years. I come from Kopra alone, and many times we have witnessed very hard words and also some acts that were actually hostile, especially when the incidents were staged. I have no intention of accusing anyone of who was the one who staged these incidents, but I am very much talking to the fishermen and I tell you that the performance of their work has been very, very difficult in all these 20 years. Therefore, it seems to me that this arbitration agreement is the solution to all these agonys, which, if you wish, even people along the border we experience, the end of all conjecture and the conclusion of all the fears that some want to present to the Slovenian public or you want to use the arbitration agreement to fight between the left and the right or if you want to, fight between the social Democrats and of course Janez Janša. I think it is necessary at this point to gather a lot of power and the matter to the end, but of course it is also necessary for Borut Pahor, the current Prime Minister of the Government, to acknowledge the great wisdom, determination and courage that he has brought the matter so far that we can talk about it here in Parliament today. It would be good if we could confirm this agreement at the referendum, which I will do myself to conclude this chapter, leave it to those we will also send to certain places where the border will be decided and to address other important issues, of course. Throwing pollen under the feet, finding excuses, such and other, is really just an obstacle to the current government to take one corrective and decisive step in the effort to solve not only the border, but also all the major problems that have accumulated at this border and believe me, they are not so few. Not so few, because this is about the day-to-day migration of people on the one hand and on the other, it's about the steady trade that people had before, and they have now, and all of this is very, very difficult. I am sure that the arbitration agreement, as I have already said, will make a lot of things easier, if not the other, in my opinion, they will end in some sense of the word, if you will, of the hostility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Honourable President, Honourable Fellow Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. I will, of course, support the proposal for a regulation on the call for a legislative referendum on the ratification of the arbitration agreement. I would like the ratification procedures to proceed as quickly as possible and, of course, to be completed quickly. Today, the President of the Government has given a very detailed explanation of all aspects of this prepared agreement. I believe him, of course, because all the attempts so far, unfortunately, others have not been successful. It is only the fact that this problem has been addressed by all the Presidents of the governments so far, and unfortunately they have failed to do so. The only way to reach an agreement is, as colleagues like to say, a peaceful way, a way of negotiating and a way of good-neighbourly relations and respect. There was a lot of talk today, and no one looked at those who live along the border. What do they say? I also met with locals living at the border, and I met with economists. All of them have a single objective, namely, to resolve this agreement as soon as possible. In my conversation with the locals, I have not noticed any dissatisfaction, bad will, intolerance, but on the contrary - this is what I experience here, mainly in Parliament, and I hope to say that some of you speak your mind or, as you see fit, it is in your best interests. Some feel insulted because someone will be able to reach an agreement, which, unfortunately, no one has yet. Some are also offended by the fact that they are likely to be deprived of a toy with which they played so often, if not otherwise at the time or before the elections. And I believe you're so capable of finding another subject, I mean all the opposition parties. The fact that things crawled out of your hands, and of course you're not excited about it, has also proved to be in the wake of the obstruction that happened a few days ago. If the President has made it clear: the arbitral tribunal sets three parameters so that I do not repeat them - the course of the border, the determination of Slovenia's contact with the open sea to determine the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas. But very little has been heard today, but what about economic cooperation. Isn't that one of the important issues?Oh, my God! Important topics, which means that at this point we have a factor affecting negative economic cooperation 39%. So 40% of the negative impact on economic cooperation is within this agreement, if it were resolved, it could have been better already. Let me give you some information. So Slovenian exports to Croatia in 2009 amount to 1.2 billion and 26% less than in 2008. Probably doesn't say anything to anyone. Slovenia imports EUR 629 million from Croatia in 2009, which is 24% less than last year. Direct investments in Croatia in 2009 EUR 1.1 billion. The Republic of Slovenia is currently investing EUR 9 billion in the Balkans, and Croatia is, of course, Croatia. The Republic of Slovenia has €6 billion in trade with countries in the Balkans. I already said, out of these 1.2 billion for Croatia. Economists in Slovenia already finally want to regulate this inhibitory problem, i.e. an unfinished agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia. Also because of this aspect, i.e. the fourth, if it has been mentioned earlier that the three aspects have been written down or laid down in the arbitration tribunal's work, this is the fourth argument for me - that is, economic cooperation. Today we hear from the mouth of a large number of people in Parliament how important economic cooperation is. Economic cooperation with the Republic of Croatia could have been a few years ago or twice as good at the time of the agreement. What does this mean for all those who enjoy talking about unemployment today and so forth? For the first time, I voted in favour of an agreement in Parliament, and if necessary, I will do it again. For this reason, I am also convinced that the referendum will come out positively, which is also the perspective of our Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Even small nations sometimes have the opportunity to prove that we are great. And Slovenia, with the process, when, together with neighbouring Croatia, it is on its way to becoming an arbitration agreement with the ratification of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, proves that it is a great nation and is able to solve major problems that burden relations with the friendly country of Croatia in a large way. This is an important message that I understand, all since the Presidents of the two governments first met in Trakoscjan and set their way to this arbitration agreement. I think that this is a new approach in the wider region, which indicates that we are capable of solving problems among the nations in this area. The approaches so far have proved unsuccessful. And given the attitude of an important part of Slovenian politics, which is united in the Slovenian opposition, I wonder whether there is a genuine interest in this Chamber that we can solve this problem. In view of what I have heard today from the debates of many opposition representatives, I hope that the work of Slovenian policy is not the aim of solving this issue, but that there is always a reiteration of the possibility that, in the warm climate of national sentiments, they are making a political profit out of this. Well, I am very happy to support the Government and that I am part of a coalition majority that has firmly decided to solve the problems in this country. I think that an important part of the Slovenian public is still foreign to this strong government, that many still do not accept it and this is reflected in the low public confidence this Government receives. But I am sure that we will continue to show that this is a fundamental approach and that this is a fundamental paradigm not only in relations with Croatia but also in many other areas, that we are solving problems, that we are actively solving problems and that we want to solve them. Of course, there is a question on the problem-solving methodology. In this area as well as in other areas, I am sure that we have used the right mechanisms and the arbitration agreement is a framework, a mechanism that will lead to a settlement of the dispute. In this belief, I am also confirmed by the fact that everything since 4 November 2009, when the Presidents of the two Stockholm governments signed an arbitration agreement, the practical issue of the border between the two countries has disappeared from the internal political field while opening the door to the fact that both nations are dealing with other issues relating to their common perspective, in particular with future economic cooperation. Many like to dive out of the Brdo process because unfortunately there was no Republic of Serbia and representatives of the European Union in Brdo, but I am proud of the start of this process because it points to one new ambition of Slovenia after an active role in the Western Balkans. I think we have many common opportunities, many synergies and now it is time to start implementing them, even at a time when we know that growth is projected in the markets of the European Union, where Slovenia exports most of its goods, is forecasted to grow slowly and it is therefore important that we open up to new markets, as we have done once in Libya, as we hope in China and elsewhere, but at the same time that we strengthen our economic presence in traditional markets, especially those with the potential for growth in the years to come, and this is also the place of the Balkans, that is also the place of Croatia. Contraventions of the referendum have shown today in many "details" that they do not have much to show. I do not wish to deny many of them a sincere desire for this or a concern about accession, but I am convinced that this arbitration agreement provides sufficient guarantees for Slovenia to win this process. More. I am sure that the winners of this process will be Slovenia and Croatia. And this is the point of friendly coexistence between the two nations, who are able, due to the relatively small problems of the present and the past, to look at the broad range of common opportunities for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u98	As with other issues, it is right to ask ourselves what we are actually doing today and what we are deciding. What's the point of an exercise if you say homework? The impression is that unity is just in something. Put the responsibility to the second, third, citizens and citizens and afford the luxury of interpreting the results then each one in its own way. I am sure that it is necessary to go the other way, that everything should be prepared to make a quality decision in the National Assembly and, in accordance with the Constitution and other rules, to decide also on issues that may or may not be clear to many, or whether they would like it to be different than it could be. And from what we have on the agenda, surely in the end there will be no euphoria, it will not be seized in terms of "all happy, all satisfied" or "one satisfied, the other completely unhappy". In compromises it is always necessary to find the path that gives you the most optimal result, as some in business know that you cannot sell in such a way that only you will be satisfied and that the buyer is unhappy or vice versa, that the buyer will be most satisfied because it is free of charge. It's the same thing. It is certainly not right that we have been in a situation where we have all been talking for 18 years and more about the need to resolve the issue when we come to a situation where it can be resolved, but it happens that some group or some part of Parliament is saying, we will not let you handle it. We don't want to, we can't, we don't know, whatever. And neither will you. But if the situation is to be resolved, let the people decide. Is it right to ask people about the procedures, the way in which this issue is resolved and the decision is made less? Politics and all those responsible in this country need to know which mechanisms, which routes are available and what is right to choose as the best for this country. More than once it has been said that if it were possible to set a border that would correspond to Slovenia and also be accepted by neighbours, we would certainly have done so in those years that we had been available. I believe that even Croats did it. It was simply not possible to do this, so it is irresponsible, in my firm belief, that in this debate today, when we do not actually decide and cannot change the arbitration agreement, as it was signed, as it was confirmed by the ratification law in our Parliament, that we are talking about all other things, but not what we have on the agenda. It must be made very clear that if the referendum is successful, what is a successful referendum - that is the basic question, how many people will come to the elections or the referendum, how many votes will it take in favour or how many votes it will take against. Every referendum is by definition successful. I have mentioned before that I believe that some people think this is a referendum for or against this government because this government offers it and this government is in this power. I believe that, in the end, citizens and citizens, voters and voters will be able to judge that this proposal lays down, as it were said, a procedure for giving explicit guidance to the arbitral tribunal on what must be taken into account in setting the border. This is written down, but repeatedly repeated. That it must take into account justice and all the other things that have been repeated several times, and that is why, of course, I also find it underestimating today that when it does not want to make a decision - it is totally no matter to me if you are not in favour of an agreement, if you are not in favour of it, you could vote against it. The referendum will not show how you voted, but it would be good to have you show what you think about it here. Don't talk to me for the minute that was set. That's wrong. That was wrong. That's what I said the last time. And the fact that we have a debate today is nonsense, not just wrong. For today we are only discussing a resolution on the call for a referendum for which 86 signatures are required. Is there anything else? After all, we should also amend our regulations to say when a referendum is tabled on request and when such a majority is signed by the President or Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and procedures are carried out. Not that we are here discussing all the things that have nothing to do with this decision and the agreement. And several times it has been today and I believe that it will be necessary to make it very clear that we will have to be so responsible already, what is on one side of this agreement and what is in the interest of Slovenia, and what are the risks, and also the arguments that you will state because you are against being in the referendum [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] passed this law, and only then will people be able to make quality decisions at the referendum. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Blackach, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u100	All in attendance, Your Honor. Today we are discussing the call for a referendum on an arbitration agreement. This is one of the most important issues when we are talking about an arbitration agreement to be decided by the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the decision was taken in a limited composition and we are ahead of the only possible decision before the referendum. The resolution of the border issue with the Republic of Croatia is certainly one of the most important issues due to Slovenia's access to the open sea, if not the most important issue after Slovenia's independence or after plebiscite. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the Slovenians to gain as much unity as possible in resolving this issue. And this principle has been followed by all governments so far, with the exception of the current Pahor government. All governments have so far sought a solution with the widest internal political consensus. No government has so far, except for the present one, resolved this issue at all costs or by voting only to remove the problem from the table on one side - the harmfulness of the decision would not have been shown until the Pahor government was long gone. If, in the same way as the current issue was addressed by the previous governments, the border issue with the Republic of Croatia would have been resolved long ago, but to the detriment of Slovenia and in contravention of Slovenian interests. The Prime Minister knows that the outcome of the arbitration will not be known during his term of office. So he's not taking any responsibility for him. And it was the Prime Minister who ensured a good year ago that the border issue with Croatia must be resolved before it entered the European Union. To address this issue, he also tied up the blockade on Croatia's accession negotiations and thereby strengthened relations with our neighbour, who, following the adoption or signature of the 2005 Brionic Declaration, have normalised in all areas. If this agreement were truly so good, it would be supported by the professional and political public in a uniform manner, and it would incorporate a provision that would provide a definitive solution to the border issue before Croatia enters the European Union. Well, we can see that that's not the case. Most experts point to harmful consequences. Let me mention only some: Dr. Bučar, Dr. Pavliha, Dr. Cerar, our foreign writer Boris Pahor, the very few who attach to him admit that he does not provide us with territorial contact with the open sea. The Agreement provides in point 3.a that the task of arbitrators is to establish a border on land and sea and in conjunction with point 4 in accordance with international law. This provision is perfectly clear and crystalline and does not need to be an international lawyer for its understanding, it is understandable to everyone. Today, it has been repeatedly explained how the limit is to be determined in such a case. The line will be drawn somewhere in the middle of the Bay of Piran, and only after this limit has been established will it be decided, in accordance with point 3.b, on the basis of other circumstances, how and how this closed "cauldron" of the ship will reach the open sea. If that were not the case, then there is no need for further clarification in point 3.b since this provision would in itself be fully clear. Furthermore, it is clear that the agreement is already basically a misunderstanding. Why is the explicit Croatian additional statement that nothing in this agreement can be understood as the contact of Slovenian territorial waters with the open sea. Although he is not formally committed, he speaks of the fact that the parties do not understand each other in principle. It is said that the agreement is not the tool with which to resolve open issues. The Constitutional Court has also stated that it is highly likely that the Constitution will have to be amended, we are changing the Constitution by a two-thirds majority, because it is a matter of establishing a border, amending this issue, so it would be normal for an arbitration agreement to be decided by a two-thirds majority, but it is not. This National Assembly has already decided in this mandate on significantly less important issues with a two-thirds majority, but this strategic issue, on which Slovenia's future maritime status depends, does not. So there is the only way - a referendum and the only solution - to vote against, rejecting a harmful agreement that does not mean a final solution, but to postpone the solution to this issue after Croatia is already a full member of the European Union and to place the burden of disputes and responsibilities on future generations. It is therefore a decision on which Slovenian policy, if approved, will negotiate for another 20 years. Therefore, the Arbitration Agreement does not constitute any definitive solution. By delaying the final solution, it only creates an illusion of the solved problem which the prime minister wants to place under the rug on one side and in the absence of any success in the internal political field at the time of his reign as a brilliant solution negotiated by his government. Under this carpet, the problem will only grow, thicken, and when Pahor’s governments are long gone, it will explode in all its dimensions. The maritime situation of Slovenia has never been as threatened as it is with this agreement. And our friendly neighbours have never been so close to establishing a maritime border between them and the resulting closure of Slovenia in the closure of Slovenia in the Gulf without territorial contact with the open sea. It is therefore the historical interest of Slovenia after maintaining direct access to the open sea, where Slovenians must show unity and agreement with the same majority as we decided on the plebiscite for Slovenia alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I was afraid, and I was right that this debate on the referendum call would once again be a new opportunity for some members of the opposition species to try to convince the voters and voters that this arbitration agreement is weak and even harmful to Slovenia. Many of you have admitted here today that one of the few Slovenian international experts is Dr. Marko Pavliha. And you quoted many of his interviews in Magu today. And I fear that Mr Pavlich has not authorized this interview, because I cannot believe that I would say what is written here. Indeed, he says that there is not a word in this arbitration agreement on the fairness of good-neighbourly relations, but on the principle of external justice "ex aequo et bono", which the arbitration should use to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea and the regime for the use of relevant maritime areas, of course, without external justice. I don't know which copies of this arbitration agreement are read by any of us. I'm reading the one we just ratified on April 19th in the National Assembly. However, Article 4 states that the arbitral tribunal will apply international law, saying that not only international law, as previously stressed, is the true international law, fairness and principle of good-neighbourly relations in order to achieve a fair and fair decision, taking into account all the relevant circumstances for decision-making under Article 3, points B and C. And what are B and C points of the first paragraph of Article 3? These are the contact of Slovenia with the high seas and the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas. I think it is extremely unfair to read only part of one sentence or even one indent in this arbitration agreement in this way. It's a direct deliberate, pretentious deception to the public. And that, I think, is immoral and unacceptable. Not to mention that the principle of good neighbourly relations is already stated in the preamble. Then there's a speech about no "ex aequo et bono" principle. It has already been said a hundred times that this principle of "ex aequo et bono" in this arbitration agreement sets out in substance how the parties imagine that this principle will be applied. Of course, it is not to be forgotten that in those negotiating positions signed by the then foreign minister in 2007, the Government gave our negotiating group in a mixed committee, where it was said that "ex aequo et bono" should use this negotiating group as a tactical move only if it is necessary to withdraw from these negotiations, but not as a principle that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would then wish to insist. And then there's another interesting question that you can't forget, because sometimes you have to remind someone. In November 2000, the Bajukova government adopted special conclusions and said: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia orders the Ministry of the Interior to immediately ensure the continued presence of the police on the left bank of Dragonje in the cadastral municipality of Sečovlje." A permanent presence of police on the left bank, in which case, for which needs - when the Geodetic Authority will check house numbers in hamlets on the left bank of Dragonje in the cadastral municipality of Secovlje and remove those which it has not issued. So, let's quote the Journal of 16. 12. 2000: "The then Minister of Defence Janez Janša, who felt that the police had to protect Slovenian citizens urgently for the deployment of the police, pointed out other concessions to Croatia. At the same time, at the government's meeting, the question arose as to how the police would have come to that area. According to Andre Bajuk, it would be possible, for example, to use a boat, and Janša said that this country ranks some 300 specialists who can get there on the sand." So, would this solve border disputes with neighbouring Croatia?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be very brief. The unilateral declaration of Croatia to the arbitration agreement was mentioned several times. That is all I would say is that this unilateral declaration of Croatia to the signed agreement points to some kind of tribulation for Croatia. It is clear that this declaration was adopted for the purpose of ratification in the Croatian Parliament, that it is not part of an agreement that is the only one in force and is the only one signed by both countries. I would like to remind you of the agreement itself, which states that no documents were adopted after 25. 6. In 1991, they are not relevant to the decision-making of the court. The only thing relevant is what the agreement says, and I wouldn't repeat it. In conclusion, that is all I would say is that there have been many wasted opportunities to have 19 years of lost opportunities to resolve this issue, border issues, and thus to develop some partner and country-to-country relations for the benefit and benefit of the citizens of both countries. I believe that the arbitration agreement provides a fair and fair solution that will take into account the vital importance of this issue for Slovenia. The Agreement contains all the instruments for the good and proper decision of the arbitral tribunal or arbitrators, which is important, is now a memorandum to be drawn up together and in which we must present evidence and arguments in a way that will convince the arbitrators and prove what we say we are right. The Slovenian nation is a reasonable nation and I believe that it will decide soberly and rationally and will support this agreement in order to take a decision that will look to the future in order to take a decision in favour of peace, coexistence and development between the two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Kontić has the floor as a proposaler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After today's debate, there is nothing new in this House. I can tell you that we are united only in that we are indivisible. Uniform in unanimity, united in the fact that a referendum is needed and rarely is the opportunity for both the opposition and the representative to speak on behalf of the largest groups of Members and Members, if I may use this term, to speak of the proposal being forwarded and co-signed by 86 Members, being acceptable to both sides, but only a referendum is acceptable. We are already very different in the next step as to whether the agreement is useful and whether the agreement is harmful. Today we've heard the introduction to the referendum campaign and it's not going to go blind, that's what this campaign is going to be. It would be good for people to look at this agreement themselves, which has been ratified by the National Assembly and in their own right mind also decide whether it is appropriate or not, because some think it is, and I hope it is the majority, and again others that it is not appropriate. I am lucky or lucky, however, that in both cases I was the first-signed proposer of both the previous consultation referendum and this legislative referendum. It was a dilemma whether at the referendum people first to ask whether they agreed to take this decision and then to decide, in accordance with their will, whether this is the second thing we have today, that we have decided first in the National Assembly, to take our share of the responsibility and now ask people if they agree with our decision. Of course, the previous referendum, at least for me, would be a better option - a consultative referendum. Before that, of course, we would commit ourselves to respecting this will of people. Unfortunately, however, there was no assurance, or at least I do not know that in this case only one referendum would actually take place. There was no guarantee that if people decided to support themselves and the National Assembly ratified this agreement, we would not have another referendum, a legislative one, which would be a final decision on this agreement. This, of course, would be making fun of people and putting responsibility on them. As I said, the National Assembly has taken a decision at the previous meeting, and now the people in the referendum will also make a final decision. Some of us have announced that we support this agreement, so it has also been voted out, others have left the Chamber and you have not decided on it and you will only decide on it at the referendum, not before. That's how you decided to do it, and that's how you're going to do it in the future. Today, a request for a legislative referendum is being addressed in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution, which states that the referendum, if it is a qualified majority of the signatories, is also being signed. There is no great choice either before the National Assembly, unless it is assessed that a request may be made to the Constitutional Court. That wouldn't be the first time and probably not the last time. In this case, there is some kind of automation today, and it is also rather vague, or it is illogical, that when we spoke about the law, the arbitration agreement, the ratification of the arbitration agreement, we would have determined the debate as we did, and it would have made sense to say more and to make this debate possible. But then we realized that the Rules of Procedure made it possible for us to do what we decided. Today we have a debate on a matter which, we might say, is also automaticism, which simply needs to happen in the National Assembly, and we have been listening to the introduction to the referendum campaign all afternoon, but that doesn't hurt either. Sooner or later, it is necessary to disclose your cards and forecast support or non-support. Otherwise, it is very difficult for people to give advice and talk about how to act. The decision to hold the referendum was adopted by the Committee through a decision on the call for a referendum, there was no amendment to a simple and clear question, no amendment either on a date. Therefore, the date is correct, so that we can actually be satisfied with the results of the referendum by proposing this request for a referendum in the National Assembly, of course, if we consider one part of the debate and the other part of the debate. However, I would like to point out that we have heard quite a few insults today. It is already self-evident here if you insult the Government - nothing new if you insult the coalition MPs, even given how old they are and how long they have in the National Assembly - this is nothing new, this is your old practice. But I find it very difficult to agree that you insult people and divide them into those who will vote against and are sane. But we are a little questionable to those who will vote in favour. You know, this equation is if someone thinks, like the president of the biggest opposition party, that he is then sane, but otherwise he may also be somewhat controversial, and I cannot agree to this and therefore protest against such statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Janša, also as a motioner, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In our debates we have heard quite a few protests and various beautiful-word bravours, but unfortunately not enough arguments in support of the arbitration agreement. It was settled here with some decisions that were certainly positive, and the coalition went against its own arguments when it claimed that Croatia had acquired territory with some unilateral moves in the last 20 years and that this arbitration agreement was the only way to bring matters back. The decision of the Bajuk government in 2000 was discussed when it was decided that the Slovenian police offered assistance to the Geodetic Authority in installing the Slovenian tables back to the villages on the left bank of Dragonje. The Croatian Geodetic Authority once, even in the time of the Drnovskov government, before Bajukova, replaced the house numbers on these hamlets in some houses. In Slovenia, this was hardly noticed or refused to be noticed. The Bajuk government adopted conclusions on the return to the original situation and the Geodetic Authority asked for assistance and this decision was then adopted. There was no journalist at that government meeting, so they didn't know what the discussion was like. At the same time, when this decision was adopted, it was also said that this should be done in such a way that this action would not lead to incidents and that it was necessary to wait for the appropriate time. It probably wouldn't be that hard to replace this plate without being immediately observed. Finally, the Croatian authorities replaced the tablet and Drnovskov's government did not notice it for a few months. Well, this conclusion was, after the elections in 2000, when Drnovskov's government came back, at the first meeting of this government, cancelled, with such a lame argument that I will not quote it. And in this case, you have to ask yourself who made these unilateral steps that you were talking about possible and who tried to prevent them. This debate today, however some wanted to degrade it in a poor sense, is an extremely important pre-referendum campaign already launched. Few such important decisions have been made so far in this hall as this one. Even more important will be the one accepted by the people at the referendum. This is a big deal and on the scale, Slovenian sovereignty at sea and Slovenia can lose everything at this point. I can reach the other side - says Croatia - loses practically nothing. Croatia, together with the islands, has several thousand kilometres of coastline, has access to the international sea from each port, through its own territorial waters. Slovenia's continued territorial contact with international waters does not go to any harm to Croatia. This is mainly about political caprice and also about economic interests. Those who spoke earlier about economic interests should also see such interests when it comes to the right of Slovenia to territorial access to international waters. There is a much greater economic interest here than if a Croatian citizen does not buy alpine milk for a month. This will be rectified very quickly, even if this happens, and it is unlikely that this will be feared, for things can be taken reasonablely into reasonable solutions that will be beneficial for both countries. The fact that Slovenia loses the status of a maritime state to lose the right to declare sovereign belts at sea is, in fact, explicitly renounced by this agreement and placed in the hands of the international arbitration to find some comforting rewards. This is a huge loss for Slovenia. Croatia has increased its coastline and its seas by II. World war for about a thousand kilometers and also its population. On this account, Slovenia lost 130,000 compatriots who remained behind the border in Italy, lost Trieste and Gorica and a large part of the very important territory. And that was when a decision was made at the Paris Peace Conference, also said, it was compensation. And in this compensation, Slovenia gave everything and Croatia got everything. Now it is just a small thing that the Croatian state should agree to when it comes to the vital interest of Slovenia. And this vital interest can be realized without anything important to Croatia being threatened. This is what Croatia knows, and the European Union also knows, at least those policies that have deepened into this problem. And that's why Ollie Rehn didn't make such bad suggestions for Slovenia. He made better suggestions than what you then concluded and signed. We can only be surprised that this is not something generally accepted in Slovenia. And even more so, we can be surprised at the fact that some may easily change their views, even though there are not only written down but are printed studies and views that they have written themselves. Today we have listened to the Minister of the Government of Mr Vlačič, who is considered to be a maritime expert or an expert in maritime international law, talking about how the arbitration agreement and the assessment at some ad hoc arbitration court for Slovenia is a significantly better option than the decision before the Hague court on the principle of "ex aequo et bono". This same Mr. Vlačič wrote in a study published in the textbook, and they wrote it together with Mr. Grbec on 8 August 2007, just at the time when Slovenia took these decisions on the possibility of arbitration, he also wrote the following: these are not the words of the opposition, these are the words of your Minister, who you have previously tried in at least ten discussions to devalue and deny. Mr Vlačič wrote in 2007: "The fact is that the practice of international courts in resolving similar disputes is not favoured solely on the basis of international law, because it favours the application of the principle of a modified central line", modified in brackets, "the application of the principle of justice within the law," in the brackets of "equity" and this "equity" you have in this agreement, "may lead more to a departure from the middle line of one or another country. This comes mainly from a recent case-law of international courts and arbitration." Thus, the application of the principle of fairness, as defined by the English word "equity" in this agreement, can lead to a greater shift from the middle line of one or another country to the principle of the customs line in accordance with the principle of fairness within the law, this "equity" or internal justice, of course, does not represent an even near alternative to external justice. Mr. Wlačič here even explains this difference. Well, then it ends, and the last paragraph of this study reads: "It would be best to propose that the dispute be resolved by the International Court of Justice in The Hague using the ex aequo et bono principle." And this was not only Mr Vlačič's position, it was the position of the Social Democrats until they took over the government, and also all the opposition back then except for the Slovenian National Party. It would therefore be most appropriate to propose that the dispute be resolved by the Interstate Court in The Hague using the "ex aequo et bono" principle. Only this establishment does not end here, because Mr Vlačič also says: "If the Republic of Croatia rejects this, it would be an acceptable opportunity to consider the possibility of bringing the dispute to the arbitral tribunal." Today, this same Mr. Vlačič spoke the opposite way after three years, saying that the farthest possible option for Slovenia is the arbitral tribunal. The Hague Court, by its assessment of the principle of "ex aequo et bono", is a significantly worse option. So much for your main international maritime law expert, his strong views and how much he can be trusted. It's in the textbook on page 59. Something was also said about responsibility. We have also heard how responsibility for this decision, however it may be at the referendum, will be taken by all or will be postponed to those who will vote. First of all, that's not true. This decision, if today we adopt a decree on the proclamation or a reference to the referendum, will be taken by all those who have the right to vote in this referendum; even those who do not go to the referendum will take the decision. Even if someone stays at home, they'll make a decision. Each decision will be a decision: going to a referendum, voting one way or another, not voting or not attending a referendum. Everyone will decide, but the responsibility of everyone will not be the same. This referendum would not have been if this government had not signed this agreement. And this referendum would not be and would not be discussed today if the National Assembly, by a simple majority, did not adopt a law on the ratification of this Agreement. Therefore, the responsibility of those who have brought Slovenia into this situation is significantly greater than that of those who will vote in the referendum. It is true that the referendum avoids harmful consequences if it votes against, but the responsibility is not yet shared equally. And if this agreement is confirmed at the referendum, then the highest responsibility for the judgment coming from the arbitral tribunal in a few years will be borne by the government coalition or all 48 votes on the list of votes to ratify this agreement. If the result is against what I strongly hope, and the harmful consequences will be prevented, then, at least I think I can say, on behalf of all, that the opposition will peacefully assume responsibility for these consequences and we can peacefully say that there are alternatives to this agreement and that it is possible to enforce them with some reasonable policy, so that vital Slovenian interests will be protected, and without this going to the detriment of the neighbouring country, because Croatia here in this dispute practically cannot lose anything. It will not lose any island, nor will it lose any Croatian port without access to international waters, nor will it lose any ore wealth and so on. So the responsibility will not be equally shared, and even if this happens again a hundred times, the facts will speak out. Someone also talked about how Slovenia would lose credibility if this arbitration agreement was not confirmed. Dr. Pirnat also said at the last Tribunal of the Assembly of the Republic that he did not believe that this agreement could maintain territorial contact with international waters. He said that we will certainly lose this, that he does not believe that the result will be positive for us; however, the agreement is difficult to reject because Slovenia will lose credibility. Of course, Slovenia will not lose credibility, some credibility is likely to be lost by those who signed the agreement and voted for it. But it is much better for the government to lose some credibility than for Slovenia to lose the sea. With regard to government credibility in a few years, no one will know anything else, we will all forget about it, including the electorate. But if we lose the sea, we will know this for a decade and a century, as is known about Koroška plebiscite and its consequences in the early 1990s. There's no dilemma about that. Now, a few hours ago, the website opened a 24-hour web survey with a question: Should the President of the Government of Borut Pahor withdraw if this agreement is rejected at the referendum? A very large number of votes, I think the plebiscite majority, supports such a decision. And I say here that it would be fair and fair for that to happen. If someone brought the country into such a situation and burned down at the referendum, it would be fair, of course, to bring political consequences as well. But since we know the government coalition, we don't expect that from this government. We do not expect this government to step down if it burns up at the referendum, and this is not important in this case either. That doesn't matter in this case. They talk about some political culture and political hygiene, but when it comes to vital Slovenian interests, this decision is at the referendum when we vote on the Slovenian sea, the decision for present and future generations. It is more important than decisions on what kind of government will be in this or in the next term. We decide on the government in Slovenia at least every four years [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u109	I would ask you to calm down and listen to anyone who speaks, whether he is a minister or an opposition MP. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Now, colleagues in the coalition were completely calm and they were not upset when we talked about that Slovenia could lose the sea. However, when I mentioned that it might be right for the government to resign and lose power, there was immediately a great deal of excitement. And after that, you can see where these interests are and what's first. [[...]] In short, Slovenian citizens and citizens of Slovenia decide on the Slovenian Government at least every four years, and we will decide once and for all on the Slovenian Sea at this referendum on 6 June. And this decision at the referendum is significantly more important than the decision on this or any future Slovenian government. For if this agreement is ratified, we have lost this sea, and no future government, because it will be irreversible, will be able to repay it. The decision to be made today is comparable in Slovenian history, as has been said several times, only by deciding on Koroška nine decades ago. There was also 5,000 votes due to political calculations in the then Ljubljana politics and today Slovenia is without Koroška. There's probably no one who would want this situation to happen again with our sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Thank you. We conclude the general debate. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? [[It's not.]] In your own name? [[It's not.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the law governing the capital injections of the Republic of Slovenia. The State Council is at the 17th extraordinary session of the 23rd. 4. 2010 demanded that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before being declared on the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to explain the Council's request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Bogomir the Grandchild. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u112	Dear Members. President, thank you for your word. As you said, at its 17th extraordinary meeting on 23 April, the Council of State adopted a request that the National Assembly decide again on the Capital Investment Management Act, which was not the case. The Council of State has always warned and proposed the adoption of this law, but they have not been adopted, and therefore the veto is a logical consequence of the rejection of the initiatives of the Council of State. The law provides for the establishment of a specific agency to manage state capital investments. The Capital Investment Management Agency shall, under the provisions of the law, cover the management, acquisition, disposal and exercise of the rights of shareholders and shareholders. However, the term "possession" means the sale, replacement or any other legal transaction on the basis of which the holding of shares or shares of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to another legal or natural person. The Government has recently presented a proposal for a law on the transformation of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Investment Policy of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society. This proposal provides for the strategic share of Kad and the Court of Justice in companies to be transferred to the country, which means that they will be managed by the Agency. These are shares in companies such as Nova Ljubljanska banka, Zavarovnica Triglav, Luka Koper, Telekom Slovenije, Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, Petrol, Krka and so on. The value of these investments goes to billions of euros, and they are primarily intended for the pension fund in a way that would benefit the current and future generations of pensioners. Therefore, it is very important who and how he will manage and dispose of them, since in the event of irresponsible, poor, inefficient and inefficient management, an even greater hole in the pension register may arise. If the proposed draft law on the conversion of Kad and Sod is also adopted, we will have as many as three institutions in Slovenia dealing with portfolio investments of the Republic of Slovenia, which would be difficult to mark as economical. It is clear from the arrangements in comparable legal systems that the management system of state-owned companies is based everywhere on the principles and guidelines of the OECD, which is also the main reason for the adoption of this law by the Government, but the OECD mainly requires countries to manage these shares in a transparent, predictable, efficient and responsible manner, but does not prescribe the method or agencies. This is a uniform that is not available in other countries of the European Union, for example, a comparative analysis shows that we could do the same as, say, Germany, where the Agency is managed within the Ministry of Finance, which we already have or in Finland, where this is in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. We believe that it is a matter of transferring responsibility from government to agency or to Parliament, because Parliament will determine the authorities of this company, which also means that the sale of these shares will be decided by the political authority. The Council of State considers that the regulation, as defined by the law, is contrary to the principles of the OECD, in particular the principle of responsibility and transparency. We are convinced that the law does not provide professional mechanisms and transparency for the efficient management of the country's capital investments, but in particular there is no clear definition of responsibility for the sound management of this asset. The State Council also points out that the law of the Agency of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance also confers on the management of the share of the Insurance Office Triglav, which was awarded to the ZPIZ on the basis of the referendum. It is true that the financial effects of this investment will be credited to the pension fund, but pensioners or PPIZ will no longer have an impact on the availability of this investment, which is in our opinion contrary to the referendum will of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Grandchild. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Member of Renata Brunskola. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee addressed the State Council's decision-making request for the Capital Investment Management Act today at its 21st emergency meeting. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was forwarded. It focused on two indications from the Council of State, namely that the legal responsibility for the successful management of the State’s capital investments has been transferred to the so-called independent agency and that the arrangement whereby Kad transferred the exercise of the rights of the shareholder in the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav, whose owner is the PPIZ, is contrary to the referendum decision on this issue. The legislative and legal service notes with these references that the independence of the Agency is adequately addressed by the amendment adopted to the bill and that the one-year prohibition of the adoption of a substantively identical law has passed, leaving the outcome of the referendum of the National Assembly no longer legally binding. The opinion of the Government, which rejects the individual indications of the State Council, was forwarded. The government stresses, inter alia, that the decision to set up an agency is in accordance with the Slovenian legal order and the need for independent and professional management of capital investments. The transfer of the Agency's management will constitute an institutional separation from the political authorities, which will enable more responsible and cost-effective management of capital investments within the Agency as an independent and non-governmental budgetary user. However, due to its importance, its management, transfer to the Agency, all the benefits of the investment are and remain the revenues of the PPIZ. In his opening statement on the request of the Council of State, Mr Bogomir Vnučec stressed what he was also presenting to me. In the debate, however, the biggest failure of the adopted law, namely the withdrawal of the Government from its political responsibility for managing capital investments, was reiterated, under the cover of the Agency. Among other things, it was mentioned that the availability of investments would be untransparent, far from the public's eyes. The problem of the transfer of responsibility was highlighted in the details of the conduct of the procedures themselves, where many irregularities are possible, including the possible impact of individual lobbying. Other weaknesses have been reported to the law – the introduction of a substantially lower standard in the area of liability, the transparency of capital investment management, as currently in force under the Public Finance Act, and the uncertainty of portfolio investments, the need for valuations or prudential reviews of companies, and the lack of a sufficiently precise solution in the field of sales methods and the inadequacy of the law in the case of nullity of transactions concluded in contravention of the law. The political validity of the referendum decisions on the transfer of the share of the Insurer Triglav, even if legally no longer in force, has been highlighted. The debaters who supported the law voted by 8 votes in favour and 7 votes against, and the opinion adopted that the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia is appropriate. Of course, it was highlighted in particular the importance of unifying capital investment management, which ensures greater efficiency in this area. The individual responsibility of the National Assembly, the Government and individual ministries is clear on the basis of the adopted law. However, doubts were expressed as to the seriousness of the allegations, as contained in the State Council's request, since it could also be a matter of delaying the adoption of the law. During the public presentation of opinions on the proposal, despite numerous comments and questions, both by representatives of the Council of State and also by representatives of the SDS Group, it was interesting and also highlighted the fact that they did not participate actively in the public presentation itself. It was also pointed out that the law in question represents one of the most important laws in this mandate of the National Assembly, not only because of the OECD requirements, but because of the very importance of having the highest share of state property and the extremely high responsibility for taking decisions on these issues. So the Capital Investment Management Act is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you. In order to explain the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u116	Your Honor! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall be held at its 16th regular meeting on 20 June. 4. 2010 passed the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, at which the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia was held at the 17th session of 23 July 2010. 4. 2010 voted procrastination veto. The main purpose of the law is to establish an investment management system based on the principles of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability, without the influence of policy and individual stakeholders. The law of management covers the acquisition and disposal of capital investments and the exercise of all rights from shares and shares of the State in companies. All forms of management shall be based on previously adopted management acts. The purpose of the adopted law is to separate the performance of the ownership function from other functions performed by the State. In managing investments, it is extremely important to manage them economically, in the public interest and thus achieve the objectives set out in line with sectoral policies prepared by the ministries. The responsibility for the preparation of sectoral policies remains with the sectoral ministries, which are the basis for the development of a capital investment management strategy. This law establishes the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia as a stand-alone and independent body with the status of direct budgetary user. The Agency will not be a legal person nor a public agency, but a "sui generis" state authority and will be responsible to the National Assembly. Resources for the work of the Agency will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where purchases are also made from the sale of capital investments and, of course, profits. Employees in the agency will be included in the system of salaries of civil servants. In carrying out its tasks, the Agency shall be independent and independent, bound by the provisions of this Act, capital investment management acts and other public financial rules. Its authorities will be the administration with the President and two members who run its business and organise its work, and the Council of the Agency with the President and four members. The Governing Board will take decisions on the management of capital investments and will have to obtain the Council's consent for more important decisions. The Council, as a five-member body, will be composed of non-professional members and will oversee the operation of the Agency, adopt key acts of the Agency and agree on certain capital investment management decisions. Within the Agency, the Accreditation Commission will act as the successor to the Personnel Accreditation Council established in December 2008. The Commission will be the consultative body of the Agency, which will draw up expert opinions on the suitability of candidates in the bodies of companies. The main management act is the management strategy adopted by the National Assembly for a period of at least three years and contains the country's development orientations in specific areas where the country's direction as owner of individual companies, including those strategic investments, is also included. The specificisation of the strategy is an annual capital investment management plan prepared by the Agency and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A very important document is also the management code, which is provided for as a set of provisions on the conduct of the agency, the management and management of state-owned companies and public authorities in the management of capital investments. The Code will reflect and specify the basic principles of this law and will be based on the principles of the OECD. Within the framework of the strategy and the annual management plan, the agency will have a stand-alone share of the investment, namely those investments which will not be defined as strategic in the National Assembly. With strategic investments and with individual investment, the total book value of which exceeds EUR 20 million, the Agency will have only a prior agreement of the Government on the basis of the allocation programme prepared by the Investment Agency. In the light of all the procedures carried out, we believe that the law is a good legal basis for establishing an effective, transparent, responsible and predictable management of the country's capital investments in one place, without the influence of daily policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, good evening, colleague and colleague. The Slovenian national party of the law we are now talking about, namely the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, will not support it. And we suggest that all colleagues and colleagues do the same. I will also justify my proposal. With this law, the government is putting in charge around, according to the data I was able to collect, some over 200 investments in total value, according to one data from 7.8 years ago, four billion, and the other two billion euros of state money, the investments of this country. It should be noted, however, that most of this money is for the pension fund. This is what the Government is supposed to give to a capital investment management agency which it claims to be independent and which it claims will only manage. The first statement to challenge all rumors. Under the provisions of the Capital Investment Management Act, capital investment management includes the acquisition, disposal and enforcement of their rights. However, the term "possessment" means selling, replacing, or other legal business. The claim that it's not a matter of disposition is falling. Point 2, the agency is supposed to be independent. Responsibilities with the model proposed for the successful management of the capital investments of the state and the government should be transferred to the so-called independent agency, whose few governance authorities will essentially be placed by the political authority. In this way, the responsibility between the elected authority and the management body will be suspended. The public will feel that the decisions of the Agency are independent and professional and will in fact be decided by the political authority. Well, there's no talking about the apolitical nature of this agency. Third time. With this law, this has been said by colleagues who have examined it even more in detail than I have, some of my colleagues, we are repealing some important provisions of the Public Finance Act, which will feel very cruel elsewhere. In the Slovenian National Party, we are also convinced with the arguments I have said that we cannot accept the government's escape from responsibility. If we give our wealth to someone who is said to be independent, some people today have said "expert," so we will give it to others because they are professional, then we run from our own responsibility, from what we have and what we need to do, the government must take care of it. However, if the claim we have heard this morning holds that the Government is giving independent, agency, agency and property assessment and management, that means that the Government does not have professional people. Either way, you're caught in a trap. In the Slovenian National Party, we are confident and say that this government knows what wealth it has, that it knows, for the most part, where it has this wealth. And I am also convinced that this government has people, at least some, even in the competent finance ministry, who are able to concentrate and manage the investment policy of this country. If these are able Germans who have organized leadership within the government, if these are able Finns who also have organized within the government, then what is the goal of this Slovenia - to sell out what we have, and say, it is not my fault? All those, colleagues and colleagues who will support this law, will indirectly express an absolute lack of confidence to the Government and the competent ministry, because you will admit that they have non-professional people and therefore postpone the management of investments to someone else, to someone independent, but of course this will not. If you're smart - don't support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Greetings, Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will once again support the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, as we believe it brings useful solutions mainly in the area of efficiency, responsibility, transparency, corporate governance of enterprises owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We will also support the law again because we do not see any valid reason to oppose the law in the request for re-decision of the State Council. Let's do it in one order at a time. The State Council states that in the event of poor management of this property there may be an even greater hole in the pension register. In doing so, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we first point out that the law has much broader importance in the field of corporate governance and therefore is not only linked to the potential increase in the shortage of STIZ. There are also no valid reasons for mismanagement or poor management of the system now in place. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the current state of dispersion of management, which interferes with the regulatory function of individual operators, is not appropriate. Even more, we believe that the current state of affairs is harmful for the country in many cases. Furthermore, the veto advocates state that we will have three institutions to manage this property, which is supposed to be too much. In doing so, we point out that the capital assets are now managed by an almost imprecise number of entities, which means that the establishment of the agency is centralising this management. We are also aware in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club that the agency will potentially be able to concentrate relatively great power, but the law has many important and powerful safeguards. For example, the highest authorities of the Agency are appointed by the National Assembly to adopt, as the highest legislative body, a management strategy that will determine which investments are of strategic importance and are not sold. Furthermore, the Government will have to give its consent to the possible divestment of shares in companies and could also list them. Taking these facts into account, the establishment of an agency means that the responsibility does not deviate from the elected authority and management bodies, to the contrary. Indeed, the most important decisions will be taken in the National Assembly and then by the Government. If something goes wrong, then it will be clear exactly who is responsible for something, but not as we have defined in the system so far. However, we point out that the establishment of a responsibility that is also problematic by the State Council automatically does not solve any law, not in us, nor in the world. In particular, responsibility requires that the law be implemented consistently, which requires considerable supervision and an effective mechanism of the rule of law, which will sanction such irresponsible conduct, in contrast to the past, when practice shows that responsibility in corporate governance was only a dead letter on paper. The law, as such, certainly establishes the possibility of such action. Its positive effects will certainly need to be confirmed in practice, and we will be particularly careful to monitor these in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. From the one mentioned at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the request of the Council of State for Redecision does not state the legitimate reasons for not backing the law. We will vote in favour of the adoption of this law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Respected and respected. We have repeatedly stressed that the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act represents the first step of the new corporate governance policy by establishing a transparent and democratically structured ownership will of the country as the owner of the enterprise that will lead to the strategy as a response to the question of what the state as the owner actually wants to achieve with ownership in its companies, and not least to establish a clear and transparent corporate relationship between the country as the owner and the supervisory boards of enterprises, through a new capital investment management agency, and thus also a key chain of responsibility that has apparently been lost several times in the current governance practice of state-owned enterprises. All of this is done by the Social Democrats with the aim of not privatising this state property, but finally proving that the country can be a good owner of companies and that they represent a long-term basis for bringing not only into the state budget but also for the other development of Slovenian society. For economic sovereignty is widely understood as something that we want to be allies in the next process and is also crucial for our country and Slovenian nation to develop as a full member of the international community. These companies have created generations of Slovenes and Slovenes, and it would be irresponsible to sell this property because of the short-term needs to fill the budget gap. On the contrary! These companies have the opportunity to produce wider economic, social, environmental and development effects, and this is what we want to establish with a clear governance policy for these companies. As we have repeatedly pointed out, in this process we see an opportunity to withdraw policy from the economy, but at the same time a smart country in an economy that will manage the property of the country in a prudent manner, i.e. assets managed on behalf of citizens and citizens. The veto of the Council of State has somewhat rejected the process of enacting this law, and the arguments of the Council of State led to this veto have not convinced us. Not to worry about the new agency, since in the new agency with existing government officials who have taken care of corporate governance policies in various departments so far, we are rounding up these employees into a single business process, which will also create new synergies and improve the quality of governance between these existing government officials. The rationalisation of the state administration must not only be understood as a reduction of employees, but rather as an optimisation of their work to ensure that their work is effective and that the objectives for which they are employed in the state administration are effectively achieved. Last but not least, in this agency as well as in some other similar decisions that we have already taken in this mandate, we place existing state officials in the new bodies with the same objective, so that they can be included and rounded up into an effective work process. The ownership of Triglav remains unchanged and is entitled to it by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office; only the management and enforcement function of corporate rights held by the State in companies that are part of its investment policy is transferred to the Agency. We also reject the argument that this law should contribute to the suspension of the responsibility of elected authorities; on the contrary, instead of the hidden governance mechanisms and the privatisation of this property in the past, we will now, with the central role of the National Assembly, develop a transparent and democratic policy by adopting the strategy, by adopting the annual plans, and not least by appointing the Agency's administration and council. Because we want a smart country that will be the smart owner of state-owned enterprises, we will support this law the last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u123	Mr Zvonko Černač will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u124	It's a nice hello to everyone on my side again. In the internal political field, this law is certainly one of the most important or important points in this mandate. He was rejected by the State Council by a large, convincing majority. I think that this shows a clear signal that there is something wrong with the law and that the National Assembly today has the opportunity to correct the error it has made at the time of the adoption of this law, and this law, which is bad and harmful to the management and management of state property, does not confirm in the re-vote. The comparative legal review annexed to the law by the Government shows that, rather than the management model introduced by this law through the agency, the uniform, but not the case of regulation in other comparatively legal systems, and that the final phase of privatisation of state property in Slovenia, which will take place far from the public eye, is subject to the requirements of the OECD. If the problem was the adoption of an appropriate strategy, I do not think that this is why this law was adopted, since the first State Investment Management Strategy was adopted in 2005, after which these investments were divided into three drawers and are therefore also available. The OECD principles on transparency, predictability, efficiency and accountability should, of course, also be added to the principle of economy, do not talk about the need to establish a specific para-State institution – an agency that will be one in a series of existing para-State institutions in this area – we know Kad, the Court, the Consulting and Management Society and so on. The term "management" is also misleading to some extent, Article 2 of this Act is expressed and clear and says that the term "management" in accordance with the provisions of this Act means "acquiring, replacing and selling and any other legal transaction to which the holding of shares or shares of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to another legal or natural person." It means having the entire state property in a relatively narrow circle of individuals, only for the value of investments of more than EUR 20 million will require the government's consent. This law also abolishes many other laws, such as the regulation on the availability of real property and the financial assets of the country and municipalities, where the rules of the game are very precise and detailed and where there is a need to be a careful review for every asset worth more than EUR 400,000. In this law, this limit is set at EUR 20 million, not to mention that the National Assembly adopts a separate allocation programme of over EUR 300,000, but that it will not have this competence when it comes to multimillion euro amounts. In fact, it is the final phase or, as its chairman named on the committee today, the third phase of privatisation, which will take place far from the public and which in some way introduces a new, fourth branch of government, without responsibility. The real purpose of the law is to manage the staffing structure in state-owned enterprises even after the Pahor government has stepped down and, above all, to privatise state property, which will take place in a very narrow circle, as concrete decisions on the real sales of state investments will be taken by a very narrow group of people. This law essentially transfers all state property to the agency. We are talking about the transfer of 33% of the New Ljubljana Bank, the transfer of 41% of the shares of New Credit Bank Maribor, KAD, SOD, Consulting and Management Companies, Ljubljana Aerodrome, Slovenian Railways, Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, Telekom Slovenije, Post Slovenia and many other infrastructure-relevant companies, including Darsa. The government is talking about the fact that once an autonomous and independent agency is established, which, of course, because of the way in which management and management bodies are appointed, will not work in some way without the influence of daily policy. We have a concrete example from the present or past, we have an institution that is also being transferred to this agency, Dars, and we know how much this so-called independence has cost us. The taxpayers have overpaid highways for several billion euros, it appears, thus also allowing the ownership of large construction systems. I think a similar image can be repeated here, because the difference is essential. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] , it will happen far from the eyes of the public, for they renounce the powers of the Government and the National Assembly that they have so far. I think that this law should be rejected or that it cannot be re-examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Willi Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Undoubtedly, because of the negative experience of the past - there is no doubt a large degree of agreement - the legal arrangements for the management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, which will primarily ensure transparent and efficient management of investments, while eliminating the conflict of interest between the regulatory or implementing functions of the State's sectoral policies on the one hand and the management function of the State's shares on the other. Harmonisation with the OECD guidelines as a condition for entry into the OECD is only an additional and welcome motive for the necessary legal regulation of this area. It is true that the proposed law provides for the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia only one of the conceptual options decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is also true that the government proposal in the adoption procedure in the National Assembly has experienced a number of amendments or additions that have improved the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the selected concept, which was also supported by the representatives of the OECD. In the face of many criticisms, even the biggest opponents of the selected concept did not offer comprehensive alternative solutions, despite an organised public debate, which, however, drew attention to a number of open dilemmas on the one hand and did not offer a more qualitative alternative on the other. While critical comments from the point of view of the selected concept are meaningful and welcome, they have not led to better alternative solutions. However, it is not acceptable for those comments resulting mainly from the ambition of obstructing Slovenia's entry into the OECD or from nostalgia following the previous practice of managing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia or the loss of the work of the Authority of Daily Policy. In its justification for the veto voted, the Council of State did not provide sufficient substantial arguments for any change in the decisions of the National Assembly or, as an argument, even incorrect facts, such as the claim that the Agency would define strategic investments rather than the National Assembly by adopting a strategy or, as an argument, using yet unadopted laws on the reshaping of Kada and the Court. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law. However, we believe that there is a need for serious consideration of possible additional improvements to the law, since it is one of the most important laws of this mandate and should therefore not be detrimental to efforts to improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we did not vote in favour of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, and this time it will not receive our support. As we have already stressed in the adoption process, we are absolutely against the establishment of a new agency, because this simply means increasing public administration, meaning a new additional administration, means new additional costs. It is a completely unnecessary establishment of a new artificial creation and a large power centre, where different lobbying will take place, where economists, speculators will go, not least to politics, of course, seemingly very far from the eyes of any elected authorities. We estimate that the problem of this law lies primarily in responsibility, or rather in irresponsibility. In particular, this solution will confuse the responsibility of the elected authority and its responsibility for managing state assets. In the elections, though, politics also assumes responsibility for the possession of state property, or perhaps not? In fact, however we wonder and observe the functioning of the agencies we already have in the country, we find that we do not have the best experience. I wonder whether we really want a certain agency and its independent bodies to have virtually all state assets and that the Government, which has been given a mandate in the elections, to act as it is responsible, will in fact have no impact on the management of its assets. In the case of the Agency, the Director will be responsible for any error in the decision-making process. The consequences will, of course, remain, the director will answer or not, but the policy will wash its hands again. We can also draw parallels with Kad and Sodom in some way. Throughout history, Kad and Sod have exchanged various guidelines and authorities to which we can draw the common denominator. For whatever policy she was able to hide behind these directors, for the assembly, for the supervisory board, and so on, we have no idea, there is a supervisory board, there is a director, there is a director, they already know what they are doing, and we as a government have no authority to interfere with their independent work. But we're talking about state property. In short, this agency is supposed to manage practically all the property of this country. We believe that all state property should be managed directly by the government. So, directly and not through some para-state agency, of course, in what form, is another issue. According to our assessment, it would be best for the matter to be directly under the Prime Minister, as is the case with Finland, which shows the very clear responsibility of the politically elected authorities. Those who claim that the management of state property is not a political issue, we ask you what it is. Definitely professional, but also political. This is why it is an important responsibility, in particular the responsibility of the government, including for the property of this country, and this responsibility is assigned to the government every time in the elections. We do not believe that voters who in the elections trust their voice to the political party and the political option to represent their interests for the next four-year period imagine that they will assign responsibility to a third party for the management of state property. As it is said, we will not support the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliament for these reasons even this time. In view of the urgency of the problem, we expect that all of us will reject the law together and that the Government will quickly prepare a modified and more responsible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. However, I ask the other Members and Members to listen to this last one.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, despite lengthy debates in the National Assembly, intensive coordination and confirmation, which is still unadopted by seventy Members, has been voted on by the Council of State. The findings flying to this law do not concern the good purposes pursued by the rules, nor does the State Council deny them, but they concern violations of the principles of independence, responsibility and transparency, since according to the State Council, the law does not provide professional mechanisms and transparency for the effective management of State capital investments. In particular, there is no clear definition of responsibility for good management of this property. As regards the latter, Members of the DeSUS believe that the creation of such a capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia is not contrary to our legal order, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the Agency, at the same time, exceeds the separation from the political authority and the political impact on the management of this property. Of course, we must not forget that leaving the management of state capital investments to the personal agency is also an OECD that makes our country's entry conditional, while respecting the fundamental principles, recommendations and guidelines that are the basis for its operation. In short, we attach the positions and arguments of the Government to this part of DeSUS's veto statement. The Council of State is also convinced, among other things, and this is also one of the reasons for the veto vote, that the law consequently leads to a reduction in the right of pensioners as it allows the transfer of the work of the Triglav Insurance Company, which has been allocated to the SPIZ on the basis of the will of the people, to the newly established agency. We must admit that we have had a lot of concerns about this part of the law in our parliamentary group, in particular with regard to the coalition contract, by which the management of this property is to be organised separately and transferred to the ZPIZ. This should ensure the long-term stability of the pension fund. With regard to this fear of state councilors, I should say that at our initiative an additional safeguard mechanism has been introduced into the law, which further defines the management of the so-called pension property, namely that the financial effects of these investments are transferred to the pension register. This is certainly a better solution than we have today, as it still happens that this part of the property is treated completely irrationally by the State, resulting in both the state treasury and the social level. We have all witnessed the uneconomic procedure of Kad, since the sale of this property was not necessarily necessary either in terms of the needs of the State itself or in terms of the balance sheet of this property, nor in terms of the additional requirements for the payment of the pension allowance. Members of the DeSUS believe that the law is appropriate to pursue the objectives and purposes set out and that it does not constitute a reduction of pensioners' rights in the direction read by the state councilors. We will therefore re-vote and contribute our votes to its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u131	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. I see wishes for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u132	We are putting great hopes in the process of establishing a new corporate governance policy. The practice of the last 20 years has shown that, with state property in state-owned enterprises, the state could not manage optimally. Moreover, this property has been subject to such or other abuses on numerous occasions, subject to many political and other interests. We are determined to break this practice. The first step has already been taken by the new Human Resources Accreditation Council, which, despite many ridicules, has, however, established a new recruitment policy in state-owned enterprises, so that the state has obtained competent supervisory councils on undisputed professional criteria. With the Capital Investment Management Act, we are continuing this process, which will be rounded up by the law on the conversion of Kad, Soda and DSU. This will not end the process. This National Assembly will each year be tasked with assessing and evaluating the work of the Agency to appoint its authorities to adopt a capital investment management strategy and annual plans. We will be actively involved by the Social Democrats in this process because we want to implement responsible management of this property, where we see many untapped opportunities to accelerate the economic development of our country. In this process, we see a promise to prove that the country can be a good business owner and that is why we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u134	I would like to recall once again, despite the tiredness of everyone, that today there have been a lot of doubts, both on the working body and here, that have been agreed upon by those who are absolutely convinced that this law is good. A bunch of doubts, inconsistencies, uncertainties, it was said that the abolition of the cup was determined by the Public Finance Act, a set of provisions from other laws that are important. While the National Assembly has to give the case, for 300,000 euros, we will have 20 million and more to decide on the other side. To talk about the billions of euros that are connected to pensions and pensioners and this money, to talk about the fact that the state does not have to just leave its assets at the disposal of someone; to be surprised that all the proponents and supporters of this law speak so loudly that the matter is unregulated. Then what were the governments like so far, including this? Unscheduled if the matter is unscheduled. All in a row, first to last. Despite all the warnings, words, calls, requests, let's set it up, let's coordinate it - no! In the Slovenian National Party, we suspect that this is the last attempt at wild privatisation, I will say more specifically, it is also a theft of what is left of society and what is left of it, read: steal - yes. Of course, we will not be taking part in this. Of course, once again, the question is when will this happen, who will be responsible? I'm warning you again. The well-intentioned warnings also came from positions, from some who have long worked on the Finance Committee, who know things well, many among Members, the opposition has warned, not from the political "grey" situation, that the law is incomplete and will allow the theft of billions of euros. And not to let that happen. We will not do that, we will vote against it, even though today the game of mice and cats will only be played, whether 46 will be sure or not. But I don't know if it's gonna be real. Once again, I call on you to be smart, to reject this law, not to allow it to be carried out, and to prepare a good, better, more precise, if it is to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support this bill because this bill allows for a non-transparent third phase of privatisation, when a handful of individuals who will run this agency and who will be appointed by the ruling policy can relatively freely privatise key, including state investments, both portfolio and, of course, strategic. In fact, it is quite common for this government to establish new and new agencies and thus want to convince the Slovenian public that the matter will then take place professionally and without political influence. Look, sir. We already have some negative experiences from similar ambitions. A decade ago, Dars was established, the main purpose of which was to build highways. Dars has already spent 6 billion euros. EUR 8 billion is covered by its complex highway programme. And look what happened! Under the cover of political independence, under the cover of expertise, we have overpaid the highway programme for about two billion euros, allowing the ownership of construction companies that have become rich and have also become self-sufficient under the leadership of directors. This has all happened in a very similar way, far from parliamentary supervision, far from finally political responsibility. And that's exactly what you're doing, Your Honor, by setting up this agency! Under the cover of independence, you want to carry out this third phase of privatisation. Dars also sent annual highway construction programmes to parliament, including Dars reporting on all outstanding and outstanding issues to the government and probably to Parliament. And look what happened. What happened was that the Prime Minister of the Government also admitted that he suspected, he knew, that there were political influences, that there were even biased connections between the builders and that this was how the Slovenian taxpayer was drawn and robbed. Dearly respected, the final phase of privatisation when we are talking about the New Ljubljana Bank, Telekom Slovenije, Petrol Slovenije, Postal Slovenia, energy companies and other investments, you obviously want to carry out under the table, under the cover of independence and expertise, which has already proved to be only a blinding manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-03-SDZ5-Izredna-23.ana.u137	Thank you. Anyone in their own name? No, no, no. Then we move on to a decision on that law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Wednesday 5 May 2010, at 2 p.m. Thank you for your time and good night.
