ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Eva Irgl until 1300, Miran Jerič after the end of the vote at 14 p.m., Ivan Grill until 12 noon, Joško Godec, Matjaž Zanoškar and Mag. Branko Grims to 11:00 and from 4:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Communities and the Determination of Their Areas. At its 16th extraordinary meeting on 14 April 2010, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their territories be re-elected before the announcement. I give the floor to Councillor Boris Popovic to explain the request of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for allowing me to present in the National Assembly the arguments which, as State Adviser to the rapporteur - as you know, we voted in veto on 6 April 2010 - as well as as as Mayor of the Municipality of Koper, as authorised on behalf of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Koper, but not least on behalf of more than 10,000 signatories to the civil initiative, as initiators of the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, obliges me to stop these, in my opinion absolutely unnecessary, and particularly extremely harmful, and in the long term even fatal and destructive attempts to break up the City of Koper. I am aware that the establishment of municipalities is a political act. In this regard, you mentioned the dilemma between being principled or respecting legislation at the meeting of the Home Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. I myself do not believe that there should be any dilemma here, as it is clear that the issue of the expulsion or establishment of the new congregation of Ankara is, in essence, a formal and legal act which should be decided solely and solely by argument. Thus, in the State Council, in the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Koper, in the Self-Governmental Italian Community of Koper, in the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality and arguments convinced the good 10,000 signatories of the initiative to call for a legislative referendum. Everything else is mere manipulation or interpretation. And what are the arguments against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the determination of their areas which you adopted on 30 March 2010 and for which the Council of State voted in veto on 6 April 2010? The three most important are: First time. The municipality of Ankara does not meet the legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality laid down in Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. While the municipality fulfils the objective criteria laid down in Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, it does not meet the criteria set out in Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides that the municipality has at least 5,000 inhabitants. This criterion or condition is indeed not possible to take the togo and the exceptions to this condition are permissible as provided for in Article 13a(3). However, it should be pointed out that these exceptions must be clearly and definitively expressed, which has not been done in a particular case, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not explained this in explanation of the proposed law or has not stated which specific exception the new municipality has justified the establishment of with less than 5,000 inhabitants. Another time. The establishment of the municipality of Ankara does not implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, number U-I-301/98. According to the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Municipality of Koper is in a territorial sense unconstitutional in that the integration of the city and its unrelated settlements into one municipality is not only contrary to the constitutional design of the municipal municipality, but also with the constitutional design of the municipality at all. The identification of the settlement of Ankaran from the Municipality of Koper and in this area the establishment of the new municipality of Ankaran in no way solves the problem mentioned above, but in fact only deepens the problem. The National Assembly should not adopt any division of the Municipality of Koper, which would not fully address the problem of territorial non-constitutionality in the spirit of the oldest but not yet enforceable constitutional decision. Third time. The establishment of the new municipality of Ankara is essential to the constitutionally protected rights of the Italian national community, while at the same time it constitutes a non-compliance with international treaties and agreements. The above are the arguments that I believe will be the basis for your decision. In addition, I ask you to take into account the purpose or reasons of the announced amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and thus avoid the perception of citizens and citizens, the way in which Members and Slovenian politicians act once, the way in which they are currently treated, but not in a coherent manner and on the basis of arguments. I am sure that the principle of thinking 'but, this time, we are still allowing an exception', even though with a clear violation of the legislation, the new municipalities will still be subject to novelties, in a serious body such as Parliament, there is nothing to do. The question of the establishment of an Ankaran municipality is far more than satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the current mayor. The establishment of the Municipality of Ankara is a question of respect for the law, respect for the rule of law, respect for the rights of minorities in a multicultural and ethnicly mixed area, the question of the defender of the western border of Slovenia, the question of the negotiating power and position of the State of Slovenia in talks with the neighbouring country, the country of Italy and the question of the future development of the State of Slovenia; the question of the purpose of the construction of the second track is the question of the meaning of the fifth trans-European corridor in our country, the question of the need for our country to access the open sea. However, it is a very timely and meaningful question of when and who will give the Government and the National Assembly an initiative for the adoption of a similar law for our wider region, as we were forced to adopt it for Prekmurje. Dear Members and Members! It is a matter of national interest, perhaps even more than we all dare to think together. That is why I place my heart on you when you vote, think about our country and citizens, think about the Slovenian nation, not whether the current mayor is ours or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Renata Brunskole to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. How nice to meet you. At its 14th emergency meeting, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development addressed the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia to re-decision on the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas adopted by the National Assembly at its 21st extraordinary session on 30 March 2010. At the Committee's meeting, Mr Boris Popovic, the State Council's official advisor, also gave an introductory explanation of the request, as he has now done. The Legislative and Legal Service notes that the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the law is based on an assessment that the law does not take into account the position of the Italian National Community and the negative opinion of the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper on the expulsion of Ankara from the Municipality of Koper and the establishment of the new municipality of Ankaran. That the municipality of Ankara does not fulfil the legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality laid down in Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, and that the decision taken does not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, Minister Henrik Gjerkes explained at the meeting the position of the Government, which is based on the legislation in force. He pointed out that the Government does not define the specific situation and events associated with the establishment of the Municipality of Ankara. The Government has drawn up a proposal for a law on the basis of preliminary procedures for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas, which took place in 2009 and 2010. In these proceedings, the National Assembly first found that the proposals for the establishment of new municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna met the conditions for setting up. Also a proposal to change the name of the municipality of Sveti Jurij. At the referendum called for by the National Assembly, voters supported the establishment of new municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna. The decisions taken at the referendum were announced by the National Assembly by a decision adopted on 3 December 2009, and the Government ordered the drafting of a proposal for a law. The Government notes that the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the law after the content relates only to the establishment of the new congregation of Ankaran. In the event that the law is not re-adopted, the provisions establishing the municipality of Mirna and amending the name of the municipality of Sveti Juri in Sveta Juri ob Ščavnica will not be enforced. The Government considers that, in view of the decision taken so far by the National Assembly in the procedure for the establishment of municipalities, the law had to be taken into account, without exception, when re-decision was taken in the National Assembly. In the debate, the majority of the panellists agreed with the Government's opinion that the National Assembly is obliged to respect the applicable legislation and the expressed will of the voters who, at the referendum, spoke for the establishment of the municipality of Ankara and the municipality of Mirna and for the re-decision to adopt the law. In this regard, it was pointed out that in its opinion on the proposals for the establishment of the municipalities of Ankara and Mirna, in the preliminary procedure, the Government assessed that the proposed areas met the conditions laid down in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. In assessing the fulfilment of the conditions and the call for a referendum in these areas, the National Assembly took into account the Government’s opinion. The municipal council of the Municipality of Trebnje agreed in the process to exclude part of the municipality of Trebnje from the new municipality of Mirna, while the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper strongly rejected the proposal to establish the municipality of Ankaran. At the same time, it was also pointed out that there was an arbitral decision by the National Assembly in individual other cases of proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, which the Government also considered to be meeting the legal conditions for the establishment of a municipality, but the National Assembly dealt differently with the same, objective situation and did not call for a referendum in the proposed areas. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion: "The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the Design of Their Areas is appropriate." The Committee adopted the opinion by 9 votes to 6 with 6 abstentions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill of reasons for the opinion. The word is given by Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members and Members. In the process of establishing new municipalities, the Government has repeatedly written down that it does not support proposals for the establishment of new municipalities. On the harmonisation of the proposal for the establishment of the new municipality of Ankara, however, she noted that it was a change in the area of the Municipality of Koper, which was in the direction of fulfilling the decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, which was then adopted in the National Assembly, was prepared by the Government on the basis of preliminary procedures for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas in 2009 and 2010. In these proceedings, the National Assembly assessed that the proposals for the establishment of the municipalities of Ankara and Mirna met the conditions, as well as the proposal to change the name of the municipality of Sveti Jurij. This finding met the condition laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government to call for an advisory referendum to determine the will of citizens to establish new municipalities. The voters supported the establishment of the municipalities of Ankaran and Mirna in both referendums. The decisions taken at the referendum were announced by the National Assembly by a decision adopted last December and the Government has ordered the drafting of a bill. The Government notes that the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the law after the content relates only to the establishment of the new congregation of Ankara; therefore, it opposes the establishment of this congregation. The Government considers that the National Assembly, with the non-admission of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the Designation of Their Areas, would distance itself from its decisions to date in the procedures for the establishment of municipalities when the National Assembly has assessed that the conditions for the establishment of the municipality have been met and that it has called for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Zares Group, we find that the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the determination of their areas by content concerns only the establishment of a new municipality of Ankara; therefore, that it opposes the establishment of this municipality. With regard to the problems surrounding the proposal for the founding municipalities of Ankaran and which have also supported the requests of the Council of State for readmission, not to mention the initiative to call for a legislative referendum, which has already been tabled, we have divergent views and opinions in the Parliamentary Group. This time, too, we have been embarrassed, because regardless of the conduct of opposers or advocates of the establishment of the new congregation of Ankaran, since the National Assembly passed the law establishing the new congregation, the arguments "for" and the arguments "against" the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran remain the same. Zares party estimates that the direction of development of municipalities in Slovenia is going in the opposite direction in Europe. Everywhere the decline in the number of municipalities is interpreted as a condition for greater efficiency and cost-effectiveness of municipalities. Their assignments were once simple and could be carried out by small congregations, now more and more complex and can only be done successfully and qualitatively by larger and better - organized congregations. On the other hand, we do the opposite. Therefore, the question arises: Does the system really have the opposite or better effects as shown by the direction of development in more comparable other countries in Europe? In such situations, it is difficult to imagine how the state could ensure the successful performance of the tasks of local self-government by creating ever-new and new municipalities. However, in the case of Ankaran, the situation is much more complex irrespective of the party’s stated position. Many interests are intertwined, with the power to follow almost daily in the media. Therefore, the Group of Members does not have a uniform position. Members of the parliamentary group will decide whether we will support or reject the law in re-decision, at their own discretion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will re-support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their Areas. The Council of State adopted the procrastination veto to the law, which was voted in the National Assembly by 39 votes to 20. We believe that the State Council will take advantage of its decision to veto when it considers that the National Assembly has made one of the major mistakes. In this case, it happened, as far as I know, for the first time, that the Council of State had adopted a veto on the Law establishing the congregations. It seems to me that this is a more political decision than a substantive one. In fact, there is no legal basis for this veto. From 1994 onward, we established 210 congregations, or 212 congregations, in the National Assembly. The establishment of congregations is a political act. The government coalition, if it wanted anything else, could change the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities before the procedure for the establishment of municipalities began; this was an option they had. However, in this case too, and several times earlier, it has proved that the National Assembly acted arbitrarily. So once he made that decision with a congregation, another time he made a different decision. That is why we have already received a number of decisions from both the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court, which warned us about this and instructed the National Assembly to correct the arbitral decision. In this case, if the veto were not voted on, I am sure that the initiators for the establishment of the congregation would achieve this in the Constitutional Court, because there is simply no legal basis or arbitral decision. Today, to say that the reasons why this veto is not supported or that the municipality of Ankara is not established, even in deciding on the so-called parallel referendum, is about as if they had made a comparison with 1990 when they had a referendum in Yugoslavia to decide whether Slovenia should secede or not. What do you think would be the result? At least three to four times as much would be against Slovenia's secession or independence as Slovenia and the Slovenians. The result, as we have decided in Slovenia, is quite clear. I have already mentioned this in the introduction to the discussion of non-compliance with the legal requirements. That's not true. The law says 2000 and, of course, the other conditions. In this way more than half of the municipalities are established. If I remind this high assembly and the current government coalition that it has even established one of the municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia without a referendum. Today, when all proceedings have expired, when the people at the referendum have decided to adopt the Law establishing the congregations, we have no legal or moral right to vote against such a law or to support the referendum. To talk about how it makes no sense for Luke Koper to be harmed, our Slovenian economy, window into the world and so on. If anything, then we've lost Luka Koper or something, I believe we won't, with an arbitration agreement, not with the establishment of the Ankaran municipality. To say that they are not fulfilled or that the problem is in relation to the decision of the Constitutional Court and thus - there will be no problem. It is not the order of the Ankarans to resolve the decision of the Constitutional Court. The task of resolving the decision of the Constitutional Court is here, in the National Assembly and, of course, in the coalition to prepare such an amendment. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will therefore support the Law establishing the Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Again, we have before us a proposal for a law to decide on the amendment of the Law establishing municipalities and the decision of their areas, which provides that the 210 existing municipalities will be joined by two new ones, Mirna and Ankaran. In the DeSUS Group, we oppose the fragmentation of congregations into smaller ones, and we believe that small congregations that already exist should be encouraged to unite. The fact is that since the present 210 existing municipalities do not meet one of the basic conditions, namely they do not reach the number of 5,000 inhabitants. In view of the differences in the size of the congregations, there are also major qualitative differences between them. We can therefore rightly ask ourselves here whether all citizens in such different municipalities have equal access to all public services or to the exercise of rights. At this point, I would like to express my support for the delegation of the DeSUS Group to the government proposal for a new law on local self-government, which is aimed at preventing further fragmentation of Slovenian municipalities into microunits and at the same time prevents individuals from requiring the establishment of new small municipalities for their own interests, including the mayoral chair. This also follows the direction of DeSUS, which has been defined in its programme to oppose the fragmentation of municipalities. In the DeSUS Group, we still have certain concerns about how to vote in this case, as both proposals for the establishment of municipalities are prepared, inter alia, on the basis of the outcome of the referendum. At the same time, we remain staunch opponents of the further fragmentation of the municipalities, so the Members of the DeSUS Group will re-vote at their own discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u14	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, Minister. In order not to be mistaken, we do not make the same decision in the Slovenian National Party, secondly, as Mr Popovic said at the outset, so that we will make the same decision this time. There are 210 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, more than half of which were caused by violations of the law on local self-government and more than half of them do not meet the conditions. We have three laws governing the establishment of the municipality: the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of a Municipality, the Law on the Referendum for the Establishment of Municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Local Self-Government, which lays down the conditions which local communities must fulfil. It is obvious that all these laws can be interpreted in their own way, and it is possible to establish a congregation on the basis of these laws even if two different parties in the process interpret each other in their own way and both of them are right, for otherwise 210 congregations would not be established so far. In the establishment of the municipality, the will of the inhabitants was expressed in the referendum, which is their legitimate right. It is our duty on the Members to make the right decision on this demand and justice and to benefit the living people there. According to the referendum of the people, the majority of the population voted for the municipality, showing also the results for the establishment of new municipalities. Despite the obvious pressure of the Italian community, according to the media, there was no negative opinion on the amendment of the law when the Commission on National Issues discussed the Ankaran municipality. There must be a conflict in the coalition that does not have a unified opinion for various reasons that are clearly known only to them. As I have already said, the interests of Ankara must be respected. It is wrong to explain that this is only about the interest of individuals from Ankara, but the opposite proves to be the interest of individuals on the other hand. The Mačehov relationship of the Municipality of Koper with the inhabitants of Ankara and the unacceptable availability of the property of the Ankarans and other local communities leads to poverty and damage to the Ankaran local community. Unacceptable interference with the premises and properties of Ankaran, Valdoltra, Fat Rtič and Lazaret leads only to the interests of capital, which in most cases is not a good journey for living people there, especially if this interest arises from the common community of Koper. The municipalities of Ankaran oppose the municipality, because they refer to a law whereby the municipality should count at least 5,000 people. Of course, this does not convince us in the Slovenian National Party, because, as we know, we have a large number of municipalities with fewer inhabitants, but they are very successful, and development is certainly dependent on the mayor and the team that runs such a municipality. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that the increased number of municipalities also increases the cost of the country and we would immediately agree that the number will be reduced by half, but development policy has led to this border, so that it is better to support the establishment of municipalities. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree with the people of Ankara that the place was a place of development that has been forgotten since there has been no development in the last ten years; on the contrary, the place has gone backwards, which is not what the people of Ankara want anymore. They have many opportunities in the development of tourism, entrepreneurship, fisheries, medical activities and recreation, and there has been nothing to this day. When they receive their congregation, they will be able to do so. In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote for the good of the people in Ankara and we hope that their long-standing desire will also come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u16	Your Honor! Today we do not have this luxury to vote on who is in favour or who is against the establishment of any congregation, who is a fan or who is an opponent, but we have another task before us to do what is the conclusion of a process which is prescribed by the law that is available to citizens and citizens, that in certain matters concerning local self-government they decide themselves and in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and the law. Many arguments were presented, from initiatives to establish new municipalities to the adoption of a law establishing two municipalities, which, following the referendums, received adequate support from voters and voters. There were many arguments in favor of one new congregation, another or another, and there were many concerns. Unfortunately, in the last period, only after the referendum was carried out, both in the municipality of Koper and in the municipality of Mirna or Trebnja, in the Local Community of Mirna, began with incredible pressure, and I cannot believe that today those arguments that began to appear yesterday could prevail and in some way show that there are no arguments in this House, there is no legal definition, but some agreements under the table, across the tables and so on with threats, pressures and so on. It will be very interesting to see how these arguments will also be implemented in practice. It was heard, during that night and this morning, that there would be a presence in this hall this morning, and what the result is, or what is the cause, of such participation. Yesterday's vote! But all right, that's possible. The day before yesterday, we heard about what to do with individual matters in Primorska. Is it really possible that, because no one who has been down there for a long time, in Cyprus, is present, manages space, manages other resources, that he has not thought that citizens and citizens have the right to decide how they will operate in the local self-government in the future? Only when it was seen that people took matters into their own hands and said, we want a different local self-government, began to justify how Luke Koper would fail, how the corridor would not be real and so on. There's a lot bigger things in the background. After all, can we, as Members and Members, take matters into our own hands only at the end of this process? The arguments for the opening of the referendum were accepted. True, the government has found out and other professional services have found that the conditions are met. True, at the same time as many of us, we have never supported the crushing of small congregations. It is true that there are arguments that are called the legal framework, the constitutional rights and the opportunities that people have. Therefore, a referendum and a specific referendum area are also held on one end and on the other. There was a referendum. People said what they said. Or can we, after we have passed the law in the National Assembly, say no, have someone come by who thinks that he would have better control of the place and perhaps more market what is down there and it would have been better for him who has done it so far and perhaps even worse - whether there could be someone else. Members of the Liberal Democracy Club believe that we do not have this luxury to think and change our minds today, because no argument, even if it was expressed in the form of a threat, is such as to convince us to change our opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of National Communities will be presented by Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The veto of the State Council, which is a constitutional category, of course, serves to enable the possibility of correcting the mistakes made. This has happened in the past and will happen in the future. This is a good part of our arrangement, especially when there is no abuse. Many arguments have been said since the beginning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u19	May I have your attention in the hall, please? Just a moment, Mr. Battelli. May I have your attention and peace in the hall? Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u20	Many of the arguments have been cited since the beginning, which have been backed up or based on the unreasonable and irrational breakdown of Kopra’s city tissue in a way that would have been desired by the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran. I will not repeat them, they concern the city as such, they concern the entire area, the coastal space, not only Kopra, but here the other municipalities on the coast. Rather than approach these sensitive issues and sensitivities of this area with appropriate legal solutions to protect [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u21	I beg for peace in the hall on the left side, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u22	economic and other national interests, which are also part of spatial interests, which are also an integral part of impeding real estate speculation in this area, protecting this space from degeneration of quality of life and so on. [[...]] But what is new, among the indications, "quality" in setting up this congregation, is that in this case legislation is violated at least two basic points. We have already heard of Article 13a and I will not repeat it, but what everyone despises is a grave violation of Article 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government. When Prekmurje was crushed, each newly formed congregation had a branch school. There is no school establishment in the Italian learning language in the area of the future Ankaran municipality. And now I will say something that has not been clearly said so far: there are no conditions for it, there are no conditions for it! Notwithstanding the fact that certain things should be provided under Article 5 before any consideration should be given to the establishment of congregations in national mixed areas. This means that this municipality would in this sense endanger the long-term interests and position of the national community, the interests and situations defined in the Constitution and in the international treaties. Now, I know that in these discussions around the Ankaran municipality, there is a constant need for protection from Italianism in this area, among the indications. This means that national interest is identified in the defence of the majority and the country against the Italian national community, which has a specific constitutional and international position. This philosophy, which has been drawn from independence once achieved, and from the achievement of Slovenia's integration into all important international organisations and the European Union, when this was achieved, this philosophy has been strengthened and this has led to the fall of the members of this community by a quarter in ten years. This is not a way of achieving national interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you, President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Social Democrats Group, let me reiterate that since the introduction of local self-government, we have been opposed to the excessive fragmentation of Slovenia on various fronts and, above all, to the very small and on the other hand, to some large municipalities. We have established 210 congregations. Why we set them up - the reasons are different. In a five-minute presentation of the Group's position, it is impossible to forget everything. Among other things, the dissatisfaction of individual parts of the congregation with congregation policy is present. And that's how we get a generator to divide the municipality into smaller territorial units. I'm afraid that's the way it is this time. Above all, it is the source of funding and the Law on Local Self-Government. This has been calling for years after the establishment of new congregations, after the sum of one plus one is three. The municipality is divided into two parts and the sum of both budgets should be the same as the budget of the municipality which has been split up and this is not the case. So we expect an amendment to the legislation that will encourage integration. Mr Minister, time is running unrelentingly, it will be necessary to speed up the drafting of legislation if we are to adopt this in this mandate. Today, we are in the process of deciding again about the law by which we establish two new congregations. In doing so, it is difficult to agree with the argument that the new municipality of Ankara will jeopardise the development of Luka Koper. It is also difficult to agree to the argument that it is necessary to vote in favour of the new municipality because people have decided to do so, while we overlook the results of the referendum held in parallel, which is aimed at preserving the integrity of the Municipality of Koper. When the referendum was called for, we warned of the conditions that had not been met, but we warned of in vain. So today, we are faced with the dilemma of whether to insist on the principle that there is no good fragmentation of municipalities, not by the argument that we have already established even smaller municipalities in the past, or by establishing the will of the people and people of Ankara. It will be interesting today, especially today, to monitor the vote of all those who have so far uncompromisingly supported the establishment of new congregations, and it will be interesting. Members and Members will vote differently, but certainly, as always, in their conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u26	Dear Members and Members. Let me also say that in Slovenia there are 110 municipalities in which there are fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, as stated in Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government. So we have 110 congregations that match or some not after 13a. Article of the Law on Local Self-Government. In the previous procedures for the establishment of municipalities, the Government found that both the municipality of Ankaran and the municipality of Mirna met all the conditions for the establishment of the municipality after 13a. Article of the Law on Local Self-Government. The parent body, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development also confirmed this. The National Assembly also called for a referendum in both areas. Both referendums were positive, with the difference that 55.45% of the voters participating in the referendum or 35% of all electoral beneficiaries were in the municipality of Ankara. In the region of Mirna, 88.24% or 60% of all voting beneficiaries in the region. The Council of State then voted veto only because of the congregation of Ankaran. Nowhere was it said that it opposed the establishment of the congregation of Mirna. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development voted again 9-6 in favour of the Act establishing both municipalities. The government also supports this law, and we have heard it today. The president of the government visited the Ankarans, and as far as I know, he promised the congregation. All coalition parties advocate the merger of municipalities and not the division of municipalities. The candidates for the establishment of the congregation of Mirna also come from all coalition parties, except now Mr Žnidaršič, who is the councilor of the municipality of Trebnje, from which the municipality of Mirna is excluded and voted in favour. The Municipality of Mirna is a pure prisoner of the law, which will be adopted for both congregations, the National Council of the Municipality of Mirna does not oppose, nor does the Government oppose both municipalities, nor do the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party oppose the position of the Government, of course, as opposed to some positions of coalition parties that are against the government's position and against the promise of the President of the Government. I hope that this time you will vote as you always have when you take into account the Government's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. Excuse me, explanation of vote on behalf of the members of the groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Franc Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, colleagues! In the Slovenian People’s Party, we will be principled, as since 1994, when congregations are established. The establishment of Slovenian municipalities was one of the three projects of this country, which are certainly the most important in the history of Slovenia: it was certainly a independence, without which there would be nothing else, then local self-government and, of course, entry into the European Union and consequently into the monetary union. After four mandates to date, there was not one single proposal for the congregations to unite. Some say that we are going in a different direction in Slovenia than we are in Europe. It may be true, but it is necessary to know that we have lived for 50 years under communism, that we have lived for 50 years in a single-party system, that 50 years of Slovenian rural development has not developed, that 50 years Slovenia has not developed, that of course only centres have evolved. Unfortunately, even at this time, because of some centralist interests, we cannot reach regionalism, regional development. However, if we did not have a local community, without municipalities, Slovenians and Slovenians today would not be drinking water, without schools, kindergartens, without a renewed cultural and sporting activity in their environment. If, then, the local community, the saints, along with all committees, etc., have done a great deal for the quality of life, they have fulfilled all the expectations that the law of course gives them and for which they have a chance under law. All that some say is that economically in the Slovenian Gorica, in Haloza, in Prekmurje and so on do not develop, is simply not developed because there is no regionalisation and the municipalities do not have these options. However, I cannot believe that some who have been full of mouths about the establishment of congregations will not be able to do so today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Roberto Battelli on behalf of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President. With the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, the Municipality of Koper will become not only weaker, but a city will be wounded in its dignity, in its history, in its essence. This is an artificial project based on political ambitions, the good part of which can be a good programme for the autumn elections, not an argument for the establishment of one municipality. This is going to be a strategic mistake for the coast.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Explanation of the voice in his name Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As I have already decided in previous mandates on the establishment of new municipalities in terms of the exercise of the right to local self-government, I will also support this law again today. All the arguments that were listed here today and attracted to my hair, if I may say so, don't convince me. If this were to make our western side of the country weaker, then we should not establish new congregations in the north, not the east, not the south. This is a special basket of human rights, the right of people to local self-government. I just want to be principled, nothing more and nothing less than that. If the people at the referendum have decided that they want to have their own congregation, I will respect their will. And I don't think that Members have the right to oppose the will of citizens who have just expressed their right to decide how to handle their affairs at local level. I'll back up the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Explanation of Dr. Luke Yuri's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law, especially because I oppose further fragmentation, because further fragmentation means weakening local self-government, not strengthening local self-government. And also because as a Koprean, I know the Ankaran case well. I will vote against this because I am in favour of solidarity and unity, which are the two principles that have been holding the Municipality of Koper together for all these years. Solidarity because all together in the Municipality of Koper we share the fruit of 50 years of work and sacrifice mainly by Koprčank and Koprčany, which we wake up to this summer due to the fall of containers on the first pier of Luka Koper, but because of solidarity that we can all share the fruit of the work of the port of Koper, without taking it for ourselves just a minority. And that's why I'm going to vote for unity, because that's the only key to keeping us strong in Cyprus. I will vote for Koper, not for this option, not for that option, not for the mayor or the mayor. I'm voting for Koper. I hope we don't hurt the system today. If we do, in two years we will have four new congregations, and that would be a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much. All the threats related to the adoption of the national site plan for the Luke area, all the threats by hindering the development of the port, all the threats posed by the terrible threat to the Italian national community in the area, perhaps however, the future municipality of Ankara, are, of course, conjectures which suggest that those who oppose the establishment of the municipality of Ankara and, at the same time, the establishment of the municipality of Mirna in Dolenjska and the renaming of St. Juri in Ščavnica are, in fact, abusing the public representation of the actual reasons why the decision to set up the municipality of Ankaran has occurred. I must say that those who claim to be the best knowledgeers of the situation in Koper and Ankara are, of course, well aware of the situation, but silence what is hidden from the eyes and what people who live there feel. Not only the Ankarans, but also the Korčani, also the Maražgani, also the Deans and many others. This is total centralisation and decision-making in local authorities without any possibility that the inhabitants of individual areas could participate in this decision-making. For this reason, I will vote in favour of the confirmation of this law, which is the right one. This veto came for the first time in the history of the establishment of municipalities and in the history of local self-government legislation in general. However, I call on the Ankarans, of course, that if today's vote is unsuccessful, they should immediately address the Constitutional Court, because I think they will achieve their right there.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Councillor of the State, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Not only because I am one of the signatories to the proposal to establish the municipality of Mirna, but also because the municipality of Mirna will be one of the largest if we count the 100 and 10 who do not have 5,000 inhabitants, it is necessary to support this because the municipality of Mirna, which will be formed, is the one who wants to create or implement a large cleaning plant project in the valley with two neighbouring municipalities and even foresee their integration into one municipality of the Mirna Valley. That's one argument. The second argument is that the referendum cannot be the so-called plebiscite decision of the local community of Mirna to establish their own congregation, the victim of disputes between Ankara and the Koper Congregation. Thus, the problem is that the same law that covers both of them would also result in the decision to establish the congregation of Mirna because the State Council opposes the establishment of only one congregation. For me it is unacceptable, I think it is right that these two other congregations should be established, given that we have followed the opinion, the referendum will of citizens in both areas, in all areas before, it is right that it is now. Therefore, I cannot support this law any more than I did in the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my predecessor, Mr Žnidaršič, that the congregation of Mirna is a prisoner of this law, more divisive between Koper and Ankaran, although I personally support the congregation of Ankaran and I am sure that this congregation will also work successfully than all the congregations so far. The new municipality of Mirna is established, as the proponents have said, in order to unite the municipalities of the Mirna Valley, because they gravity into one area, they have joint projects and this is an intermediate phase only for the establishment of this municipality. Hence, the congregation of Trebnje, or congregation council, unanimously supported such a congregation or to secede. And the referendum decision reached in this area, I think it obliges us all to confirm the congregation of Mirno. Otherwise, I don't know if I can talk about the rule of law and that we respect the laws that have been adopted here, or the European Charter on Local Self-Government, where we have committed ourselves to developing local self-government. I don't know what to say to people in that place who went with that percentage already to voters and almost 100%, a little less than 100% voted [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] for his congregation. [[...]] I do not remember until now that the package would vote in favour of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities, as it is today. [[..]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Melita Župevc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will vote for the approval of this law. The reason for my decision is clear: the opposers of the congregation of Ankaran did not persuade me; on the contrary, they even strengthened me in the conviction that my vote would be right. I will vote in favour because there are at least 21 people missing in this Chamber today who voted in favour. I will vote in favour because I have the answer why these at least 21 Members are not in this Chamber today. That's my answer. I believe that even those who have decided today to believe that they are not so tired of yesterday's interpretation against Interior Minister Katarina Kresal have their reasons for not coming. I will vote in favour because people went to the referendum and decided. I will vote in favour because I will respect their will. I will vote in favour because I do not agree to all the stories that are taking place around the establishment of the Ankaran Congregation. My voice will go absolutely for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Lois Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour. I am the mayor of the municipality, which has 21,000 inhabitants, and once had 48 000 inhabitants, and from 18000 there are five new municipalities and we participate well in co-existence in the beautiful green Savini valley. I support the right to local self-government, to work in the territory they decide to work for, but I also strongly oppose the claims made by my colleague Puksic that life is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u45	Dude, don't argue. I'm sorry. Don't mention names, just statements if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u46	I'm sorry. I argue that living in local communities did not start with new congregations, that the roads, kindergartens, schools were not being built at the time, but that it would probably be good to see how much money this number of new congregations was financed. Therefore, it would be very good for the appropriate ministry or government service to prepare a really good analysis of community funding. It is abnormal and impossible for a municipality with a few hundred inhabitants to be in the same funding system as the capital with almost 300,000 inhabitants. Here we have to clear this up first, lay down funding rules, then it'll be easier to tell who we can and can't tell. I support the proposal, but it is essential that the funding system of municipalities is regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote for it primarily out of consistency. Secondly, I will vote in favour of this law, because this vote means a vote against threats by perhaps unconstitutional referendums, for which the municipal administration of Koper has probably chosen 10,000 signatures in a very democratic and possibly transparent way at one weekend. I will vote in favour because this is a vote against the trades that are obvious today and because, with one vote for the interpretation, someone has managed to win as many as 21 absent Members. That is why my vote is for democracy, for the consistent respect of the rule of law and for the correctness of politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. True, many small congregations have improved their position according to the space they have covered since then. But it's about the rural congregations. And it is known that these municipalities, given the funding system that exists, can achieve a certain level of development that is limited. Then this development stops. Ankaran is not a rural municipality, it has a completely different structure, history, other connections. Economic and other analyses, which are made and which are professional, do not advocate the breakup of the Koper Congregation in this way. As for relations with Luke, it is not that Luke will be threatened with two congregations. It will be easier for Luka to exercise her interests, economic and legitimate, against the urban area with two municipalities, with the weak municipality of Ankaran than with the strong Municipality of Koper if this municipality is to be managed in the manner that this area needs to be managed. The great congregation means a serious interlocutor for Luke. However, the small municipality of Ankaran and the weak municipality of Koper pose a threat to the quality of life in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u52	I am convinced that the time we live in puts many challenges ahead of us, including at local levels. This is the time when we need to strengthen our community to be stronger and more connected and more able to provide assistance and support to people in distress and to encourage those on the threshold of flight. Secondly, to ensure an effective transition to a low-carbon society where our responsibility is so much higher at local levels. Thirdly, to provide the quality of public services that our citizens, citizens, citizens and citizens deserve. That is why I will remain loyal to my previous positions and to the call for us to reorganise ourselves in this country, in line with the goals that we are also setting ourselves as a government majority for the changes that are necessary in our society. Just as we have been organised so far, with so many congregations, we will not achieve this effectiveness. And if we have learned something from the story of Ankaran, we have learned in particular that no mayor, no February is king of Bethany, but must manage his congregation according to the interests and needs of his community. This must also be a lesson for Mr Popovic. And until we move this limit of political responsibility and political culture more, someone will always be neglected and ousted. Therefore, the correct answer for discontent in the municipalities is a greater responsibility of the politicians and mayors and of listening to the needs of all citizens and all parts of the municipality. And that's the real answer to the challenges Ankaran poses. Until then, I'll be faithful. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that we need to reorganise local self-government and reunify Slovenian municipalities into strong and effective local communities. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A warm welcome to the Minister and a co-worker and the President of the Council of State! The referendum decision of citizens and citizens or citizens and citizens is sacred for the policy responsible, is law. If there is a personal thought that a person should vote in a way that he thinks is right, but not in a way that he will like, then the choice is clear. I'll back up this law myself. From the moment people made their decision at the referendum and when we turned on their green light for the referendum, there was no going back. Of course, in Slovenia it is possible to consider whether the number of municipalities is too large or too small. I must say, people in many small congregations have gained much in the quality of life in these years. The task of us, as legislators, and the government, is to assess the matter and discuss the law on the financing of municipalities to discuss the problem. I am pleased that, on my last visit to the Minister in Gorenjska, I have received an explanation that this is being considered how to intensify the participation of the municipalities in many areas. I myself come from the congregation, where we are successfully working with the Inter-Agency Editorial Service and the Inter-Agency Inspectorate, we are also preparing a joint audit body. If our legislative initiatives go in the right direction, then this process of fragmentation of Slovenia will stop on its own. That is why I am predicting once again that I will reaffirm my decision. And at the same time, I'm asking the President because I'm [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] last discusser, if I may also point out a procedural proposal before the vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u55	I can, but I don't think you're the last person to explain your voice. That is why I am reopening my application for explanations of vote. An explanation for the vote on behalf of Anton Kampush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u56	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It needs to be built on experience. Building on experiences means that something needs to be learned and that experience needs to be translated into practice. Today I am experiencing again a lot of confusion, wrong thoughts, which, of course, I allow, but the truth is completely different. I don't like it, or I don't approve of every other word allowing us to say the worst or the best about Pomura. If someone did an analysis of the province on the left side of our country and tried to apply it with the 27 municipalities, then maybe over the years it would come that this is also the reason for where this province is. So this fragmentation, this powerlessness, comes on the common denominator and achieves that we go together. 27 Putting on a common denominator is not easy. I learned something from that. This means that my opinion, not the opinion of our parliamentary group, is such that I do not agree to the fragmentation of Slovenia into smaller municipalities, but they already are. For a simple reason, because I find that joint projects should be those that connect us, which would have a common objective of better development, a better life in individual provinces, not just in the municipalities. True, it would be unfair to say that small congregations are bad or that large congregations are bad. That's not true. To a greater extent it depends, of course, on the mayor, whether he is even able to find a total [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the law. I will vote in accordance with the will of the people in the area where the municipalities are established. But politicians should ask themselves why there is such a situation in Ankara. That's what I'm trying to say. At this time, it's rumored that the Kopers were building Luca Koper. It's not just the Kurds. We built all the Slovenians. Let's look back at the history of what we lost at that time, the open sea route, not to say anything else. Above all, keep this to yourself that Luka was building for the needs of the Slovenian economy and I do not know why everyone is looking for development only in increasing the port as a port. It is also possible to search for development in increasing quality, in what will be reloaded in this port, what ships should be expected to do. Perhaps we can also expect significantly more from tourism and port development in the tourist sense, in terms of cruise destinations. And that's what would keep the environment. We must not ignore the development of the whole country and the small piece we still have in this part of the Adriatic at the expense of the environment and the increased cargo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Today, it has been said several times that a change of legislation, both funding and the functioning of local governments or congregations, is being prepared. Colleagues and colleagues who are in the coalition, but look a little bit at the so-called Joint Municipal Administrations, where - some colleagues have already talked about this today - at local level we already know what is common good. I come from an area where we have a community administration from the beginning, so to speak, and we combine various interests and use this community administration differently. Turns out that's a good thing. First of all, this is good for citizens and citizens, which is our sole interest. To talk today about some economic development and economic stagnation is completely depressed because it is a regionalisation. If we had regionalisation today, I believe that European funds would be much more and better exploited than they are now. Finally, it would not remain, as we are now told, about a billion euros in Europe, instead of taking advantage of it in this economic and investment spasm. If you're going to centralize things even more than you did by supplementing the Capital Law, where some mayor is just like that, we're going to have more operations like what was yesterday when something was bought in the state account for private [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear guests, welcome to the balcony as well! I think that today every substantive exercise of each individual is superfluous. Today it's about promoting what it's like to be able to get angry overnight and to say, "stay at home, because we've agreed on this in the tops." I have before me a vote from 30.3.2010, where the most honest party is the most responsible, which, I will say, is everything and oh, was present in the National Assembly and voted in favour of the majority, but today probably these parties due to such or other arrangements or Members are not interesting in the Chamber, even though they have not apologized for this meeting. I personally did not vote in favour of the referendum, but when the procedures began when people in the field in Slovenia said or in Ankaran, in Mirna that they were in favour of going from their home congregation to go to their own, to their own congregation, I decided to vote in favour. And that's what I'm gonna do today. Unlike some who have arranged for them under the table much more important than the people on the ground. I would like to know how Mr Zvone, who is so much in favour of this Mirno, will apologize to his constituents, who is the most honest party in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u63	Please, without referring to other people, Members, because they can no longer answer. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The other guests! I had doubts about the formation of the congregation of Ankaran when, in my opinion, it was time to do so. When we discussed whether there were reasons for us to call referendums in these referendum areas in Ankara and the local community of Mirna. From there on out, as far as I'm concerned, the decision was no longer in our hands. She was in the hands of a sovereign who also gave us this mandate, which we have, the electorate and the electorate. The right to self-determination, which was decided by most of you at the time, but not by itself, is, of course, the right on which this country is founded and therefore must be recognised by all its citizens and citizens. It is the foundation of the democracy of this country. Anyone who does not understand, respect and recognize such a right must not be regarded as a Democrat. A party that ignores the referendum will of the citizens must not consider itself democratic and democratic because it is not. I want to be a Democrat myself, and I am very happy to be a member of a democratic party, not a democratic one. Now, as in the previous vote on this law, I will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposed law mainly for the reason that in the proposed newly formed Mirna Congregation, the purpose in the future is to unite with neighbouring congregations in a larger congregation. In my belief that I will vote in favour, I am also strengthened by the hypocrisy of one of the Members, who said that our commitment is that we should all vote in favour, but at the same time there are 20 Members in his party today deliberately missing, perhaps because of a deal with yesterday's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Renata Brunskole. Just a moment, procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u68	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! I take it that you do not conduct your explanations of vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and allow for controversy with those who have nothing to dispute. Everyone is obliged, if it is an explanation of vote, to explain how he will vote. All other parallel matters and parallel matters should be saved for another debate. I also note that you intervened many times yesterday in your explanation of vote, even today, perhaps with someone. Yesterday, however, you took the floor many times, you interrupted the debates, especially on our side, because we had certain arguments in explanation of vote at yesterday's huge deal. When someone's got a million assets and 30 million debt gets a vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u69	Mr. Tanko, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u70	Well, thank you, thank you. He got a 30 million-dollar vote ticket so he could cover his debts. [[...]] Yesterday, you intervened every time someone mentioned a matter that wasn't right. Therefore, again, I urge you to keep your explanations of vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to warn those who call on anything in any way or other not to do so and to terminate them and, even as you have done several times, to take their word. As far as our vote is concerned. We haven't changed our minds, colleagues, so there won't be any problems for the advance. We will vote for the government law. This law is a government law. And we, as the opposition party, will vote in favour of the government law. Unfortunately, from my explanation of vote, I find that you will not vote in favour of government law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u71	Mr Tanko, you now explain the voice of the Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u72	Wait. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u73	That was over.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u74	I have three minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u75	The voice was well-founded. Now I must use your own words against you, I am very sorry [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u76	I'm looking forward to it. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u77	please remain under the procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u78	I expect that you will not be double-minded, that you will leave us, on our side, to say what we think, as we do in the procedural work and also in the explanation of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. As you've seen, I'm restricting each other. I would like to point out that they should not use the names of Members, that they do not dispute, that they represent only how they will vote and why. I'm warning each other. The microphone, the truth is, I didn't rule it out, not one or the other. I will be happy to use the words that have been said so far in all the following explanations. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you again. I have explained my opinion several times in this Chamber and also at the meetings of the Committee on Local Self-Government. I am a co-signatory of the establishment of the Mirna municipality, mainly for the reason that in the future the three small municipalities, Mirna, Mokronog-Trebelno and Šentrupert, are merged into the larger municipality of Mirska Dolina. It is true that this is a slightly different situation than in the case of the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran, but in accordance with the Government's opinion and also in accordance with the decision taken at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, where the majority of this proposal was supported, I will also support the establishment of the two municipalities, of course not because of the fragmentation of the municipalities, but because we are already participating in many projects here. In explaining my voice, I am confident that those who come from the area of this constituency will vote in favour of the development of the area of Dolenjska, White Krajina and Posavje.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm asking you to sign up. [[Peace in the hall, please. No comment I can hear up here.]] Explanation of the voice in his own name, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Dear President, the times are such that the flower dust blows away. I will uphold the law myself, and this is because this must be supported in order to carry out the procedure. And I will support it, despite the fact that there has been a great deal of inconsistencies in the process of adopting municipalities in coalition partners and also in dealing with the working body. Not all those who wanted new congregations were in the same position. We have received two extremes for the new congregation, but not for those who also met the conditions, in the same way as the two proposals mentioned. So you can be coalition MPs here on your shoulders. There has also been a misappropriation in the process of handling on the working body. The request submitted by the Members by the attached law was not addressed in the text as it was tabled. Nevertheless, I will support the process and the conclusion of this work. I'm also going to support this because I want to say that this is not a deal. Yesterday you supported a big deal, all the Members on the other side [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u83	Comrade Tanko, remember your own words: there is no controversy with other groups. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u84	Mr President, I expect that you will at least be consistent with this point and that you will let me know, as others have said. Yesterday, you had the opportunity to vote against state money and state property deals, and you didn't do it. So don't read what you missed yesterday to someone who is voting on his conscience today and on his own conviction. I will vote in favour of this law being passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We've concluded with an explanation of vote. Procedural proposal? Explanation of voice. Anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr. Dusan Kumer, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u86	I thank you, Mr President, for being able to give my opinion. I voted last time for the establishment of both congregations, because people have decided to do so at the referendum and today I will repeat this determination. But I am even more certain that people were right, for apparently those who are not in today have great fear of those who are campaigning that the congregation of Ankara would not be. And that's why this hall is so empty today. That makes me even more convinced that I'm right to press the "for" button today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much. As I have always, consistently and in principle, supported this law, which in fact was also the result of the referendums. However, I am very sorry that this majority has not given these rights to those congregations that I myself have invested that meet these conditions in the same way. The duality, the hypocrisy I am experiencing in this House today, is so terrible that yes, you did not support the congregation of Fram, you did not support the municipality of Poland when we discussed it, but you had better conditions than the municipality of Mirna. [[...]] Where's the rise here? And I will not allow anyone to manifest their perversion to anyone in this regard, because you have made the most of the salad mortals in this House. And you're also making a salad mortal today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u89	I don't know if I know how my colleague Jerovšek is going to vote, but I don't care. I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation of vote. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr. Miran Ptrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I'm going to talk about my position and how I'm going to vote. I respect anyone who stresses that he is the only one who gives reasons why he is a Democrat in the National Assembly. I also think I am a Democrat, but I think I am in a great deal of trouble to vote on the proposal we have today. Why? Because in this case, too, unfortunately, there are also interests in which the interests of local self-government, which are to a large extent the interests of capital, are interlinked. And if you ask me, I don't believe in the big words about democracy in voting for this or any other proposal. And secondly, what I would say is, I voted differently in setting up congregations years ago when we set them up. And I'm sure if you follow my vote, you'll find a mistake or a lot of mistakes. We all made these mistakes in one way or another because we agreed that local self-government is decided in a way that does not mean right, smart, in the same way and on the same criteria of local self-government everywhere, but we formed it in a way where more than elsewhere a group of people who found their allies not on principle but on other grounds also in the National Assembly, and so today we have a division that is certainly not normal. I don't want to contribute to it, and I'm gonna hold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in her own name, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I am surprised by this incredible concern of the Members where our Members are. It would be right for everyone to deal with themselves and then with others. I have said many times that in our congregation in Igu, when the vote on the new congregation was against and we did not want our congregation, but we did get it, but not by the SDS at the time, but by some other party. And if people asked today, they were satisfied with their congregation and would vote differently today. We would certainly vote for our congregation, Ig. In the case of Ankara, so did people, who voted in favour of it, who wanted their congregation. I think it is right for Members to make this possible by their "yes" vote, and I will do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I understand my conscience quite well, and today's vote will also be a vote of conscience. Whenever we decided to establish new congregations, my basic guide was to decide whether the proposed congregation met the conditions for setting up. It is not hard to remember this too, and I remind those who are citing the people that the Kopercans have decided to unite the congregation in the referendum and we have not changed this will. So I ask all those who will try to link my voice in this law to some interest groups not to do so. In my decision to vote, I will refer to people who did not want the Koper Congregation to split up, and I have nothing to do with these modern-day interventions in decisions. But, of course, there is another point that makes me think about the establishment of congregations. The most underdeveloped area has the smallest municipalities. How, then, can we talk about how good the current arrangement is? I do not think the current system of funding municipalities is good that this local self-government is not good and I am waiting for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in her own name, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much. When I first voted on this law, I voted against the establishment. However, I would like to say that today I will change my decision and support the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. I'm going to vote in favour because I'm simply disgusted by what I'm following today and watching this bargaining in the National Assembly. The fact is, we're having a real comedy here. We're actually having a "mysterio buffalo" event. And those who come from the coast know what it means, and they will understand it. For it is only in the comedy that it is possible to say that "yes" will be consistently voted, but then keep silent or keep silent in his pockets, for those who should actually do so are not in fact. So they're going to vote "yes" at home, with a mean cat after yesterday's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Please apply for explanations of vote. Voice explanation, Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our client in Koper, if I may say so, is built on the one-stop town of Koper and in this one-stop town of Koper we had three elected mayors. When it began to think that Ankara would go on its own because of disagreements with the current mayor, I told them, "Let's go to the elections and replace the mayor, let's not set up new municipalities because we don't like someone." Ankarana’s escape from these problems is not a sufficient reason to establish the congregation of Ankaran, as we say. Even today, nothing has changed completely with me, as colleague Majda said, and I will vote in my conscience. If we have sailed and captured this wave of wind and maintained the unique Municipality of Koper since 1994, I see no reason why I would not vote like that today. I'm going to refer again to my colleague Majda Potter, because I'm going to say the same thing. There's no connection to any capital, but if anyone has it - that's his problem. I would like to vote in such a way that the Municipality of Koper remains one. In the autumn of the elections, we can choose another man who will be at the head of the Koper Municipal Assembly, which will also be run by the Ankarans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Without big words and without any unnecessary conclusions, I will vote in favour of the marriage three times in favour, as we say on this new show of talent. However, I am sad, or I would be more happy to have this opportunity today, Fram, Loče and Poland to go to the referendum at all, but they did not have it. And I'm sorry about that. As for the vote, I must also say that I am pleased that this, as you say, is our absence, that it has brought you together and that we will support the law and that it will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. You will probably recall that I was a proposaler on behalf of the Loče Municipality Initiative Committee, which would have 4,200 inhabitants. I ask you, which of these two congregations has 4,200 inhabitants?Oh, my God! No one! At that time, you voted on your own conscience, and you said that they could not vote in the locs of their congregation. The Administrative Court decided that the decision was arbitrary and that it should be re-decisiond. Again, this area of Loče with 4,200 inhabitants had no conditions for a new congregation. That's how you voted. Today, some of you are talking and wondering what kind of "deal" is here. Yes, I do not know what a "deal" is here that a proposal for a municipality of 4,200 inhabitants is not sufficient for a condition of 5,000, and a proposal for a municipality of 2,400 inhabitants is sufficient for a condition of 5,000. Explain that to me. You may still be able to convince me because we are in this Chamber and you have already voted on many things. Just tell me how I can convince these locals who have authorized me not to have conditions for the municipality in 4,200 inhabitants and all other infrastructures, and those who have fewer than twice as many inhabitants, by their own knowledge, have a condition of 5,000 inhabitants and have even been able to hold a referendum, and you did not give the area for the municipality of Loče for a referendum decision. And then today, some of you are referring to the fact that the natives have made this decision. Okay, I respect that. But tell me why in Loča they should not have made a decision, but they have 4,200 inhabitants and all the other infrastructure. Tell me how I should explain to these people who have authorized me to vote, say, I voted for both congregations, which are also twice as small, and they have no choice. What am I supposed to tell them now? Can you advise me how to vote? I honestly don't know how to vote. Do not refer to "deales" and their own conscience and that this should now be the case. We were not principled, and it was an arbitrary decision. You've given some conditions, some you haven't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I take it there's no more desire is there a desire to explain the voice? [[...]] I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I'll be alone, even though I wasn't in the last decision because I was on a business trip, I voted in favour. But I would just tell my colleagues who are worried about where we all are, that if we are few today, the second term will surely be more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u105	There is no possibility of shifting the decision to a second term. The possibility of transferring the decision on this law to a second term is not. Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u106	Dear President of the National Assembly, Minister, Councillor of State, fellow Members, fellow Members! I myself will vote in favour of this law in the re-decision, as I have for the first time. I will respect the will of the people in the referendum and thus allow the establishment of two new congregations, both Ankarana and Mirne, and allow one congregation to be renamed. I would just like to say this to the biggest opposition parliamentary group, not go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u107	Don't argue, Mr. Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u108	such heavy battles as interpolation. [[...]] After the second interpretation, you lost half of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I find that I can complete my explanation of vote. Procedural procedural proposal, mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the LDS Group, I propose a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u111	That's what you'll get. Procedural proposal, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u112	Your Honor! In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, the chairpersons may suspend the work of the National Assembly, or the parliamentary group may request such suspension if requested to do so before the decision is taken. We're already in the decision-making phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u113	No, no, we're still ahead of the decision. At this point in time, he can still demand, so I'm giving you a five-minute break. We'll continue the meeting at 10.55 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u114	Colleagues and colleagues! We continue the suspended session with the interrupted item. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 9. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on funeral activity and funeral management. The Minister of Economy, Mr Lahovnik, has announced that he will join us in about three minutes. That is why I propose a five-minute recess. We'll continue at 11:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u115	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue with the adjourned session and 5. It's a day's work. We are moving on to another well-spoken proposal for a law on funeral activity and funeral management within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! The Committee on the Economy considered the proposed law as a work force at its 21st session. 4. 2010 Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Legal and Legislative Services, the State Council, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments to the draft law, in particular of the principle nature, comments to criminal and transitional provisions and specific comments to each article. On the basis of those comments, Mr Alojz Posedel also tabled amendments in accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee also received a number of other materials, namely the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Community proposals from the municipalities of Slovenia and some others. In the introductory addition and explanation of the article, Dr Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, presented very briefly the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the bill and in particular its main solution, and only some key comments from the written opinion of this service. Following a presentation of the opinion of the Council of State, which said that the proposal did not support the law. While the Council of State has quite a uniform view that the legislation in force in this area needs to be updated and amended, such diametrically contradictory opinions among stakeholders on the proposal for a law are not a good basis for these changes. As soon as I moved to the debate on individual articles, I myself personally suggested that the Committee should, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law - even because of what the Council of State has said - is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of a number of opinions and suggestions from local communities, the Association of Municipalities, Chambers, Businesses and other stakeholders, which have been forwarded to the Committee or the National Assembly, it can be concluded that opinions on the proposed concept of the management of funeral and funeral activities are highly divided or divergent and even diametrically opposed. Although an attempt has been made in recent months to harmonise these conflicting opinions and find an appropriate compromise, it turns out that this cannot be done in an corrective manner. Furthermore, it would also be inappropriate for a proposal to be amended conceptually by adopting a number of amendments at a committee meeting. It is best that the bill is rejected and that the Government once again be able to draw up a new legal text. However, I must say that the Ministry of Economy, led by Mr Lachovnik, has made a tremendous effort in this preparation of the law, but unfortunately it has not been successful. All the debaters agreed with my proposal. While it was pointed out that the Ministry of the Economy had worked very hard to prepare a good proposal for the law, some felt that it had also succeeded because it had listened to the interests of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, and it has been shown, as I have already said, that such concepts for the regulation of funeral activities are not supported by many other important actors. It is therefore most prudent to consider the proposal to be inappropriate and once again to give the Government the opportunity to draw up a new text of the bill. At the same time, it was also pointed out that the legislation in force in this area really needed to be reformed, but it would be more appropriate if the new text of the bill were prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space rather than by the Ministry of Economy. The issue under consideration relates much more to space regulation than to economic activity. After the discussion, the Committee also unanimously adopted the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to explain the proposal. Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any in there right now! The aim of the law is to eliminate the monopoly on the market due to the unanimity of the conditions for granting concessions for the conduct of funeral activities. Thus, the proposal leaves the funeral activity to the free market, and because of the sensitive area, of course, you suffer to the death, it lays down the conditions for carrying out this activity, which each operator must fulfil. Let me say that the important novelty of the law which is being introduced is the scope of the authorisation issued, as otherwise as with concessions, the whole of the Republic of Slovenia applies. This is precisely for the purpose of greater competitiveness in this area. As I said, such an arrangement is aimed at ensuring competition between funeral service providers, which is one of the key objectives of the law, as it is intended to help improve the quality of the provision of these services, which is more favourable to the recipients and, above all, their price. Funeral activity is carried out in accordance with this law as an economic activity on the free market, and the management of burial sites, of course, remains the responsibility of the municipalities as an economic public service, which is also understandable due to the nature of the work - the regulation of burial sites - because of the nature of the work. As I said, the law also provides for the delimitation of two activities, funeral and funeral activities, with the law incorporating all transports of the deceased, safekeeping, care, funeral and cremation. The management of the cemetery, which is under the responsibility of the local community, consists mainly of the management of burial sites, common burial sites, facilities and other infrastructures associated with the burial, as well as the provision of renting graves, the management of other records, cadastral and the like. I would like to conclude that it has already been shown in the drafting of the law that there is a very large gap between the wishes of representatives of the local communities, on the one hand, who wish to maintain the existing situation somehow and oppose the fact that the funeral activity would also be more structured as a commercial economic activity, and between representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, who have supported such a concept of the law from the beginning and have been in a position supported by the Ministry of Economy to separate the funeral activity where competition is possible, with a view to achieving lower prices, from the burial activity that relates to the regulation of graves, burial sites, excavations and so on, where existing arrangements are maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u120	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, honourable Members, you are most welcome! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, last August, we introduced a law with exactly the same title and slightly different content into the legislative procedure. To be precise, on 12 August 2009, a proposal was tabled with me as the first-signed draft of the Funeral and Cemetery Management Act. In opposition to the government and consequently to the coalition, the proposal for a law on the home labour body and later at the meeting of the National Assembly was not supported and rejected. Let's take a look at some of the government's interesting arguments from their opinion, [[Quote]] : "In 2007 the Ministry of Economy, at the initiative of the interested public, began to prepare a new law on funeral services and the management of burial sites. Following the completion of the public hearing procedure in 2008, it became clear that due to the different views of stakeholders, appropriate compromises on the proposed concept would have to be found." The Ministry of Economy has drawn up a new compromise draft law this year. The draft law is currently being updated on the basis of comments received and opinions following inter-departmental coordination in July 2009 and consultations with stakeholders. According to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed distribution of funeral services to those who are supposed to be under the authority of the local community and are to be performed as a public service, and those who are to be carried out on the free market, is not the appropriate solution. Indeed, the Government has tabled its proposal for a law to the National Assembly, the Committee has postponed its consideration twice, and, finally, the coalition has also agreed by all votes that this law is not suitable for further consideration. What's the reason? [[Quote]] : "A number of opinions and proposals from local communities, the Association of Communities, chambers, businesses and other stakeholders, which have been transmitted to the Committee or the National Assembly in relation to the draft law, can be found to be highly divided or even diametrically opposed to the proposed concept of the conduct of funeral and funeral activities." I don't think a special comment is necessary. For more than two years, it took the Government to draft the bill and coordinate it and consult stakeholders. Success is seen here today. Since it is clear that the bill is unacceptable for us too, as it advocates a different concept than we have proposed six months earlier, we will therefore be happy to support the coalition's proposal that the government law is not suitable for further consideration. We will be even more pleased to follow further government inter-ministerial coordination and consultation with stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal was well-intentioned to update outdated legislation, address problems in the implementation of services and field activities in practice, regulate the distinction between the two activities and form the basis for the status of service providers in this area. Updates to the current situation are also needed in order to improve the technical standards of services expected by both the self-governing local communities and the providers of these services. Finally, there are users themselves or, rather, their relatives, who are the first in line to whom an extremely important and quality treatment is appropriate. The efforts made by the applicants to prepare a good effective law have unfortunately failed, although many efforts have been made to harmonise all proposed content by a multitude of actors. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the conclusion of the parent labour force that it is not reasonable and appropriate for the law to be amended conceptually in the coming stages by amendments and, therefore, to withdraw from the legislative procedure on the basis of the decision on inadequacy for further consideration. Given that the legislative procedure for dealing with this law is likely to be completed today, it is appropriate that the work of the Government so far be cashed in in such a way as to continue the treatment of the issue. Our assessment is also that the actual delimitation between powers or the work area in this matter is very difficult, as this is a matter for both economic activity and space management. Finally, it also interferes with the health sector in certain segmental issues. Given that there are proposals for transferring the area to the Ministry of Environment and Space, it is, in our view, reasonable that the matter should be maintained in the working area of the Ministry of the Economy. However, as regards the issues relating to space regulation, the Ministry of Environment and Space should be actively involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, Minister. The first point of the Slovenian National Party is that the law before us, that is to say, such a law is urgently needed and will be adopted as soon as possible, i.e. the law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites, quality preparation, introduction and adoption. Also in the opening presentation at the first reading at the home work body, the law was generally good. There were certain elements on which we did not like and on which we are Members, members of the Committee on the Economy's parent working body, made some comments. All together, the moment when the second treatment of the parent working body came, if I am not mistaken, I counted just a few more than 70 different amendments; i.e. the various interest groups, the majority of local communities and communities, had proposals, which were in certain parts in diametric contrast with proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. This was, in fact, the indicator that called for such a decision or decision on such a proposal as is before us today. So it is better to say at this point that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that the law is harmonised. This is also evidence that the law could have been written too quickly, that there was insufficient cooperation between communities of local communities, both and too little cooperation with the Ministry, craftsmen and the Chamber of Commerce. The diametric contradiction also applies to the decision where this content belongs, whether that content corresponds to it, has its place at the Ministry of the Economy or is the content to be dealt with by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Most of us thought otherwise, but the opposite is the view of craftsmen and the Chamber of Economics that this is still a law that should be judged by the Ministry of Economy. Finally, however, the content that seeks to separate funeral activities and the management of burial sites is essential, namely, one as a market and the other as an economic service. Best of all, as in those congregations that have this ideally arranged, that is, when they have an concessionaire or have a public service that performs both; this is one big problem that the trainee has very little to touch and I would like to warn him about. Indeed, most local communities, if we are now talking about the management of burial sites, most burial sites are not owned by local communities, which is, of course, impossible to achieve the objective of this law. It cannot be the public economic service of a municipality to regulate a cemetery that is not owned by it. As a result, the congregations should either buy these lands, where they are not owned by the congregations, or the law would have to be arranged in a completely different way. Funeral activity is, of course, an activity that is required by the Constitution, because it is an uninterrupted provision of human constitutional rights, it is a matter of dignity and a fifth to the dead, and also to this work, so that this segment, which would leave the market, should be given more attention in the law itself, according to our opinion. In short, the law is important, the law is actually the one that regulates our everyday lives. Of course, we will be very happy to cooperate constructively - and I hope that at least this time we are united, all the parties - in the drafting of this law. However, I think that the first thing to be clarified is whether this law in the Ministry of the Economy or in the Ministry of Environment and Space and in the talks should be kept in mind - in addition to the community of municipalities, also craftsmen and economists. From All Things Said [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] it follows that the proposed proposal will also be supported by the Slovenian National Party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow mayors, who, of course, have a majority in the National Assembly at this time. There is no doubt that the applicable Funeral and Funeral Activities Act and the 1984 Funeral Planning Act are outdated and deficient and that, on the basis of its problems in the management of burial and burial activities, it is no longer possible to solve satisfactorily. Because of all the changes in the last 20 years and the law that has not followed these changes, we are in a position to have completely different arrangements for burial and funeral activities by municipalities, so in LDS we understand and support the desire to regulate the area with the new modern law. The proposal for a law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites prepared by the Ministry of the Economy, as discussed, is a second attempt to regulate the area legally within a short period of time. However, just as we did not support the draft law tabled by Member Janez Ribič in the legislative process, we do not support the proposal we are making today in the LDS. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we cannot agree to the full liberalisation of funeral activities on the one hand and to the maintenance of less or even less non-profit-based cemetery management as an economic public service within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. Both activities, both Funeral and Funeral, are in the public interest and are required to be ensured permanently and undisturbed and with a view to ensuring dignity and a piette to the dead. In our view, the proposed solution is also not good and balanced in this respect. On the one hand, it leaves the commercially uninteresting management of the cemetery to local communities and, on the other hand, the profitable funeral activity completely leaves the market at a potential risk of similar anomalies occurring in the course of this activity as they occurred in the implementation of the chimney service, which could, among other things, endanger both dignity and piete to the dead. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we therefore expressed our dissatisfaction after submitting the bill to the legislative process within the ruling coalition and demanded amendments to the key solutions to the legislative text. In addition, we have forwarded to the proposer - on behalf of the Government and the Ministry of Economy the wishes of the Muslim community in Slovenia regarding the type or manner of burial. At the same time, we must say that the Ministry of the Economy has responded correctly to these requirements and has tried to find more acceptable marriage solutions for us. Unfortunately, after the legislative process began, it also appeared that the Ministry of the Economy of the proposed legal solutions had not sufficiently coordinated and coordinated with other bodies of funeral and funeral activities. Here we refer mainly to both chambers that bring together the operators of both activities and the two associations of congregations. We can say that the solutions proposed are not satisfactory, so to speak. And because in the LDS we believe that it is not appropriate to completely change the concept of the proposed law within the legislative procedure with the amendment, because the legal procedure is not intended for such radical changes, we are convinced that the proposed solution is only meaningful and rational. We will therefore support the Committee on the Economy's decision that the proposal for a law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites is not suitable for further consideration. However, we expect and wish that the Ministry of the Economy, in an attempt to regulate burial and funeral activities, could take into account these comments, both on the Committee on the Economy and on the Committee on the Local Community, and in particular take into account the proposals made by both associations and public economic service operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleague, colleagues. Last year, Mr Ribič submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on funeral activities and funeral management. At that time, by 39 votes in favour and 26 against, it was concluded that the law was not suitable for further consideration, since it was evident that the law would become inexcusable under all amendments to be adopted and would in practice be interpreted in a manner that would in fact not be applicable. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has approached the drafting of the bill itself and we have this law on the table today. There is a fundamental difference in concepts, namely that in the first case the funeral activity should be a compulsory local economic service, in the second instance it should be a market activity. Despite the prior coordination of the Government proposal for a law, comments by the professional public began only after the opening of the legislative procedure in the National Assembly and all efforts by both the Government, the professional services and all the members of the groups led to the decision proposed by the mother's working body. The fact is that the law is extremely non-political and that a key piette is to the deceased. The Committee on the Economy has unanimously expressed its view that the law is well prepared to take into account proposals and comments made by the professional public once again in a situation where the amendments adopted would constitute an impreciseness and non-consistency of the provisions of the law and its accompanying text. Therefore, despite the clear need for a new law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites, it is still better to reject the current proposal for a law and to approach the preparation of a new one as soon as possible, this time for all parties to the acceptable text of the law. In the SD Group of Members, we will therefore support the proposal for a decision submitted by the parent working body and at the same time call on the Government to prepare a new proposal for the law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Rado Likar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Following the consideration of the proposal for a law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites, the Committee on the Economy adopted a conclusion that it was not suitable for further consideration. We can agree with such a decision, since the law tabled by the Government, which has been tabled by many amendments, has been practically applied to every article of the law. There were also very many diametrically opposed opinions and views. Therefore, following the third postponement of the examination of this law, such a decision was expected on the Committee. The proposal for a law substantially changes the current regulation of this area. The current law does not separate funeral and burial activities, regulates them in a uniform manner, and at the same time provides that they are both in the public interest and are carried out in the framework of economic public services. The proposed law provides that funeral activity shall be carried out as an economic activity on the free market and the management of burial sites shall remain the responsibility of the municipalities as an economic public service. Due to the separation of both activities, it is clear that their scope is delimited. The bill also includes all transports of the deceased, care and care, funerals and cremation. The management of the cemetery, which is under the responsibility of the local community, consists mainly of the management of burial sites, common burial sites, facilities and other infrastructures, the provision of renting graves, the management of the cadastral and other records, the excavation and burial of graves, and the issuing of consents and opinions regarding the intervention in the cemetery area. The law should define in more detail the provisions conferring powers on the Minister of Public Power. It is very important to correctly define the nature of the transitional provisions relating to the situation of current grave renters as well as the termination of concession contracts. We probably all agree that the current legal arrangements for funeral and burial activities need to be updated and amended. However, the diametrically opposed opinions among stakeholders regarding the proposal for a law are not a good basis for these changes. The bill does not address some of the key issues, for example, the issue of compensation claims from former concessionaires and the ownership issue of burial sites. The proposed concept of carrying out burial and funeral activities is widely divided, even the opposite, and, despite the willingness to seek compromises in recent months, this is not feasible in an corrective way. It would be inappropriate and unreasonable to amend the bill in accordance with all the many amendments conceptually. This gives the Government the opportunity to draw up a new, better proposal for legal regulation in this area so that the problem of the chimney service does not recur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Aloise Potočnik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you. Dear President, Minister, colleagues. In the parliamentary debate, the proposal for a law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites provided for a number of postponements. The main reason for the long-term procedure was the divergent views of local communities on the content that fundamentally changes the current legislation and, unfortunately, by reaching consensus, they were too late in this process. In the Group, we really believe that the current regulation of this area is inadequate and requires modernisation, but we are skeptical and have doubts that the arrangements for funeral activities as activities subject solely to the free functioning of the market, which is intended to contribute to better service delivery and cost-cutting for family members through the implementation of competition between funeral service providers. After the talks held in the Group of Members, we drew close to a solution that conceptually slightly changes funeral activity as an activity carried out as a select economic service, with a small part of the activity involved in the compulsory public service. In view of the various conceptual approaches we have witnessed, we will therefore, in the context of the vote, support the Committee on the Economy's decision that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. In doing so, we would like to offer the Government and all the interested public an opportunity to further align their views, which would regulate the area in a qualitative manner that follows today's needs and circumstances. At the same time, the choice of the appropriate government authority to draw up a proposal for a law was also raised at the examination at the home labour body. Some of the views were that the Ministry of Environment and Space should take responsibility and prepare the relevant content of the law in accordance with its powers and the type of activities we are talking about today. While we do not object to this in the Group of Members, the Ministry of the Economy has already put forward so much effort and solutions to raise the question of whether, in this stage, when we have in some way brought our views closer together, the transfer of the drafting of the law is useful. And we oppose him. In the Zares Group, we therefore expect that the content of the law will be inserted in the parliamentary procedure, which will respond appropriately to the open questions raised during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health Protection. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members with a first-signed magi. Merry Christmas. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Magi Act. Joyful Žerjav for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The basic purpose of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Plant Health Act is to act quickly to prevent the further spread of ambrosia, which is one of the most allergenic plants and is growing rapidly and is already causing serious health problems to many people, especially young people, causing harm in agriculture, the environment and, consequently, the economy. The law also provides a broader legal basis. To take action in the emergence of other non-profit plants or weeds, which experts report that some new non-profit weed species pass from some weeds to weeds associations of fields, meadows and permanent crops of Slovenia. In drawing up the provisions, we have used the definition provided for by the WTO SPS agreement, which provides that restrictions on safe trade must not be more restrictive than is strictly necessary and scientifically justified. It is therefore possible to act and make the area of invasive alien plants immediately. Where in the risk assessment for the introduction of a particular species a plant enters the category of harmful organisms with unacceptable effects under the IPPC Directive. With these amendments and amendments to the law, the Government will have a basis for issuing a regulation or regulation on prevention of introduction and control of plants which have a detrimental effect on human health, the environment, agriculture, the economy or society other than those already defined in the law. At present, the most pressing problem is the spread of pelinophilic ambrosia, one of the most allergenic plants. The home of this one-year-old plant is North America, so it is a foreign plant, and across Europe it began to spread in the early 19th century. Today ambrosia is the most common in Eastern Europe and is already emerging in Western Europe. In Europe today we know almost 20 different types of ambrosia, the most common being pelinophilic or short ambrosia. As I said, the pollen of ambrosia is one of the most powerful known allergens. People who are sensitive to ambrosia are often affected by allergic rhinitis and asthma. The threshold causing the reaction is very low and in some cases it is also low in less than 20 pollen grains per cubic metre. Allergic reaction is identified by symptoms such as sneezing, sneezing in the nose, runny nose discharge, swollen eyelids, sneezing in the eyes, difficulty breathing. And these allergic reactions, which are very annoying, need to be treated. So our aim is to take measures that would have prevented these problems by the next flowering period of this species, that is, by July of this year. At the same time, we want to draw up a set of appropriate measures following the example of countries where they already have an active ambrosia control policy. In order to successfully address the problem, it will be necessary to involve more ministries, but also local communities, i.e. municipalities, in the example of other countries, such as Hungary and Croatia. The Ministry of Agriculture is already actively involved in the management of areas through two bodies in the composition, namely the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The Plant Protection Service of the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia or the authorised agricultural establishments and institutes with plant protection departments shall have risk assessment methods as well as observation and forecasting of harmful organisms on the basis of meteorological data. This will enable us to carry out professional work and to inform the public about ambrosia or other non-profit plants. This law lays down the debtors, and these are, at this moment and in this case, land owners, who must monitor the occurrence and take appropriate action, in particular by effectively destroying ambrosia and other plants. At the same time, we also determine the competent authorities and how to define a specific surveillance area. So it is certainly a well-intentioned law, a non-political one, if I may say so, aimed at people, especially those who have problems with allergy to ambrosia and other allergen plants. I hope and wish that this law would receive support despite being proposed by one of the opposition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Franc Bogovic, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u136	Nice greeting, Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 16th session, 1.4.2010, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health, which was submitted by the SLS Group to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure. Merry Christmas. At the College of the President of the National Assembly, it was decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Representatives of Lawmakers, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the State Council, the Agricultural Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was given a written opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and made a number of proposals to what many articles. By the end of the business deadline, Member Franz Puksič had drafted amendments that had largely summarized the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee also received the opinion of the Government of 26. 3. 2010 in which the Government agrees with the issue of ambrosia. The debate pointed out, on their part, that this area is the subject of someone else, not just farmers. However, the main warning or opposition to this law stemmed from, according to the Government, too short deadlines to address this problem, as they are only time-bound to solve problems this year. Finally, an amendment was proposed, but the Government did not support the proposal in principle. A representative of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and a representative of the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, two Commissions addressed the topic in the Council of State and supported the proposed proposal for legislation. There were also no comments from the municipalities of Izola and the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica, which also supported the law and also forwarded these comments to the working body. The proposaler has already presented his own law, as it has already been done today. In its opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments had adequately addressed the shortcomings to which they had been alerted, but the Director of the Plant Safety Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and the Phytosanitary Administration had once again been alerted, to the short-term implementation of this Act and to the problem of implementation. Representatives of the Council of State took part in the debate, reiterated their call on the Government to react as soon as possible and also to prepare certain necessary legislation and everything necessary to implement such a law later. The law was also supported by the Director of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, and the Director of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia in the professional vocabulary stressed and gave strong support to this law and also assessed that the law was urgently needed to be adopted. This debate, which showed that the majority of the members and members of the Committee attached to the proposal that the law must be adopted, in some way also showed dissatisfaction with the opinion delivered by the Government, since the assessment was that it was necessary and that it was possible to react more quickly than was said at the meeting itself by the representatives of the Government. Finally, the Committee considered and also adopted the amendment to Article 16, the three amendments tabled by Mr Pukšič, by replacing the text "60 days" in the amendment with the text "6 months", which is the deadline for this implementation, as proposed by the representatives and the representative of the Government. Later, the other amendments that were proposed, adopted and finally this proposal, now prepared and supplemented [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] has also been confirmed on the committee itself. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the introductory explanation of the opinion, Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, Minister, Government of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. Harmful plants such as pelinophilic ambrosia have so far not been legally regulated, nor has their status been defined as a foreign invasive species. Pelinophilic ambrosia can be harmful to humans because its pollen causes allergies: asthma, seasonal respiratory problems and so on. However, ambrosia is not the only plant that causes allergies. From February to July, when the ambrosia blooms, many other plants bloom that cause allergies such as cypress, lesion, jellies, and others. The government is aware that ambrosia in Slovenia is already present and notes that appropriate measures are needed in view of the situation, the individual environment, the characteristics and functions of the land. We believe that these measures need to be thoroughly examined and coordinated, as the aim is to make the measures economic and effective, while at the same time allowing them to actually be implemented. We can only expect optimum effects from actions through cooperation and the inclusion of all the sources, institutions and other entities concerned with the consequences of the growth and the problem of ambrosia suppression. The Government has adopted an opinion on the proposed amendments to the Plant Health Act, since it does not therefore oppose the substantive solutions which the financial and other effects of the amendments to the Act have not been adequately evaluated, and it has pointed out to them on its own. In particular, they refer to the inclusion of experts from various fields such as transport, utilities, local self-government; further to the preparation of land ownership data required for the service of decisions; to the measurement and preparation of data on areas grown with ambrosia required for the destruction measure. Additional monitoring of floral dust due to the geographical representation of ambrosia for additional testing on the effectiveness of existing ambrosia disposal and the registration of new plant protection products. Let me conclude, therefore, that the Government supports solving the problem for people of harmful plants and does not oppose the content of the law, but also points out that the problem is multilayered and concerns other resources, not only the agricultural sector, which is the holder of the Plant Health Act, and the consequences of the proposed method of regulating pelinological ambrosia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Jurša will present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues, colleagues! This is a bill which, according to our assessment, is very important, as it will provide a legal basis for action against introduction and for preventing the spread and suppression of ambrosia and other invasive foreign plants that are harmful to human health and cause economic damage. It is necessary to take action in due time before the new flowering season of pelinophilic ambrosia, to adopt the law and the sub-laws and to take measures to prevent further damage. The floral powder of ambrosia is a powerful allergen, causing sneezing, sneezing, runny nose, swollen eyelids, swelling or difficulty in breathing. People who are sensitive to ambrosia pollen often get sick. The dust causing the reaction is very low and in some cases it is also low in less than 20 pollen grains per cubic metre of air. In our Group of Members, we believe that action must be taken immediately and at the moment should not be the main issue of money, as it can also be distributed within budgets, as it is necessary to act immediately and in any way to infest the farmland on unpaved and abandoned land and along state roads and highways, railways and private agricultural areas. This is the only way to prevent the negative effects of the rapid spread of ambrosia on us. Invasive alien species deplete domestic plants and thereby reduce biodiversity and ecosystem performance, and the spread of invasive species reduces the number of isolated species. It is true that the invasion of foreign plants does not know state borders. That is why a joint approach to the regulation of alien invasive species has been under discussion within the EU since 2008. The Ministry of Environment and Space, which is responsible for foreign plants in Slovenia, participates in the EU's working bodies and also coordinates its views with the Phytosanitary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The problem of invasive and alien species is extremely complex and requires broad inter-sectoral cooperation. The very big problem with these particular foreign plants, ambrosia, is that ambrosia is unwelcome in terms of growth conditions, so it grows mainly along motorways and railways, on poorly managed municipal public and other areas. However, the suppression of this weed on agricultural surfaces is particularly problematic on land that is abandoned. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the idea of establishing an interdepartmental group in the form of a seven-member Council, which is to be appointed by the Government from representatives of the competent ministries, the Agricultural Institute, the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and experts in the field of human health and plant health. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a new plant health law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. We are very pleasantly surprised in the Slovenian National Party that our initiative has finally produced fruit in this mandate. In fact, on November 24th last year, we put forward a parliamentary initiative for this law in the Slovenian National Party, which, of course, the agricultural ministry did not respond to, and I am pleased that this has now been proposed by a group of Members and that the matter has come so far at all, because this very rarely happens in this National Assembly. The mere summary of our initiative would say that we were then aware of some of the facts that encouraged us to do so. Indeed, in the area of the former Yugoslavia, there was already a very high prevalence of this ambrosia during World War II, which is today the most widespread in Europe. It also appears in Eastern Europe. In summary, I would like to say something about the danger of this allergen plant, which flourishes from the end of July to the end of September, depending on the weather conditions, and the role of pollinator is played by the wind. One plant can produce more than 60,000 seeds and several million seeds, and according to some, up to a few billion pollen grains. The amount of pollen grains depends on the weather conditions in each year, more and more in the dry years. The pollen grains have very good aerodynamic properties, since they can travel more than 100 kilometers [100 km] by means of wind. The maximum concentration of pollen grains is one kilometer around the plant, and the semen of ambrosia remains potassium in the soil for more than 30 years. The growth rate of the plant is between 6 and 20 kilometers per year. In the last ten years, in neighbouring Croatia, the concentration of ambrosia has increased by 10 times. According to Croatian data, the Zagreb County is in the zone with the highest concentration of pollen grains in Europe, that is, in our immediate vicinity. Given the proximity of Croatia, there is a legitimate fear that this spread of ambrosia can also be transferred to Slovenia, and it already has. At that time, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food called for the adoption as soon as possible of an appropriate law on mandatory control of ambrosia and other dangerous plants. Let me stress that similar legislation and appropriate measures have already been adopted in some other European and non-European countries. The purpose of the law is to provide a legal basis for measures necessary in view of the assessments of the potential economic damage to these non-profit plants and the damage to nature, the environment and health. I'm not going to repeat all this damage because you've already told the predecessors all about it. Following the adoption of the law, it will be possible to systematically address and adopt rules for measures to prevent the introduction, further dissemination and timely removal, if necessary. The main objective of the proposed law, however, is to act as soon as possible. We could have taken action earlier, but we knew of this potential danger, but the agricultural ministry has slowed down by reacting, which I do not understand. It is said that the aim is also to remove and prevent the further spread of an already known harmful organism with unacceptable harmful effects of this pelinolytic plant, with several types of ambrosia; otherwise, I do not know all but they say there are about 20 species. The law lays down in the transitional and final provisions that this pelinophilic ambrosia and other non-profit species of this genus are to be considered as harmful plants. It is said that this is also the basis for the adoption of the law. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will be happy to support the proposal of the law, as well as any meaningful amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Greetings to the Minister of Agriculture! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will not oppose the proposals and solutions brought by this law, but we have quite a few concerns and suggestions, because the issue of alien species is much broader than this law, even with some opposition from the profession, deals only with a certain work. We join the view that alien invasive species are a problem. They threaten biodiversity, including agricultural production, cause economic damage and also have a significant impact on human and animal health. Of course, there is more traffic, more trade, travel and tourism, more alien species outside their natural areas, and this causes a variety of problems. Most of them in the new environment do not cause problems, but some, especially those of the invasive ones, are a serious problem. The first reports on alien species date back to the 19th century, as was reported by our Karl Dežman, and in the past, for example, botanist Viktor Petkovšek has done much of this. Europe and the European Union are lagging far behind in the fight against invasive alien species, for some two years ago an agreement has just been reached that the European Union needs a strategy to combat these alien species, which we do not yet have. Many countries in Europe already have their own strategy, Slovenia is not yet among them, but it would certainly be necessary to join. We have before us a law that was created as a partial, incomplete response to the problem of ambrosia. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we see it primarily as a health, part-agricultural problem, which needs to be addressed, so we will join in much of the story of the law, but we have some serious, serious, reasoned concerns also from the opposite point of view. First of all, it must be said that such pelinalis ambrosia is not a new phenomenon, and this moment certainly does not endanger agricultural production, but it is imperative to adopt a law that may not bring the best possible measures. Ambrosia is certainly a species of weeds, so the agricultural sector could already use all the known ways of oppressing this plant, but it does not. Even with the health sector, it would already be possible to agree to remove plants in areas where this is a worse health problem. This law speaks of the fight against invasive plant species in Slovenia in its entirety by detecting and monitoring invasives, preventive measures, controlling and removing individual plants. This means that the phytosanitary administration and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will keep an eye on this problem in Slovenia and coordinate the various services in this country. The law, in our opinion, does not mean that it has financial consequences, but it certainly has a key dilemma for us, but we wonder whether taking over the entire segment of invasive plant species has been coordinated and agreed primarily with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which, in our view, should play an important role here, may even play an even more important role than the agricultural sector. The law therefore interferes with its definitions in a much wider area than only the agricultural sector. The law certainly interferes with the competence of local communities and imposes measures on them, which will also certainly result in dissatisfaction if the relationship between all stakeholders in the area is not harmonised. Furthermore, it is not clear on what basis the Phytosanitary Authority will issue measures, such as for the removal of harmful plants from non-agricultural land, but in environmental jurisdiction. The law is adopted during a period when we do not yet have a permanent minister, which is also one of the important stakeholders. There were also conflicting presentations, which need to be harmonised by the end of the law, and we will also participate in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u145	Mr Laszlo Göncz will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. In opening, I should like to stress that we, too, welcome and support the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Plant Health Act. On the basis of a report from the competent working body, we estimate that this issue has changed significantly in a positive direction, since two years ago there was no real willingness to address this issue. When I asked the question of the negative effects of the proliferation of ambrosia myself more than a year ago, on 2 March, I received even less concrete answers from the competent ministries or ministers. While the original government position in this case was not positive to the proposed text, I hope that only the majority of Members, as well as government factors, have recognised the importance of adopting the proposed amendments to the plant health law, regardless of their clientele. We are aware that this is a complex issue, but the changes, which are only the beginning of a large-scale activity, are undoubtedly an important first step in the fight against the negative effects on human beings, the environment, agriculture and the economy that causes ambrosia and other harmful factors. I would say only for intermezza, given the position so far, that in Prekmurje, agriculture is already visible, unfortunately, negative trends have a bearing on ambrosia. Perhaps in the interior of Slovenia this is not yet to be seen. I simply repeat that the allergen mentioned today is present in the eastern regions of the Republic of Slovenia, in Prekmurje and in Podravje, in an extremely high proportion. However, it is also unrelentingly expanding into the interior of Slovenia. Among all allergic diseases in Slovenia, the percentage due to ambrosia was estimated at more than 30% before a good year. On the highway between Maribor and Lendava we have been able to track real, in the past few years, "plants" of diaper leaves or short ambrosia. I also mention that in Hungary they estimate the rate of patients with very high percentages, to more than one third of the population, that is a huge number of people. This plant is causing increasing damage, as I have already said, in agriculture, particularly in the eastern part of the country. In fact, this plant species is the fastest growing, as has already been said, on poorly maintained land, along roads and in areas of major construction operations into natural space, from which it is then extended to agricultural land. It is correct that when designing measures to prevent and combat the spread of ambrosia and to mitigate harmful effects, the bill provides for a combination of several sources directly linked to the spread of allergen or the recovery of its consequences. The proposed non-coordinated text of the draft law, which takes into account the proposed amendments, and also the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, will be supported. However, since we do not have the time available in the debate, I now stress that the amendments tabled subsequently, we will also support the coalition parties, because they make sense to us. Similarly, the amendments of the SLS Group, which shortens the deadline or prescribes the initial deadline under Article 6 of the Act to 2 months, as I have already said, have been originally indicated. Even though this is not the most important issue and perhaps there are still some open dilemmas in this regard, we believe that this deadline is acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you. Dr. Luka Juri will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u148	Interestingly, there are fewer Members in the Chamber now, and no one "rebellions". The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Plant Health Act will legitimize levers for quicker confrontation with an increasingly widespread invasive and alien plant species, pelinolis ambrosis. The plant is extremely allergenic and poses a serious risk to human health, as it is one of the most powerful agents of hay fever and often causes severe symptoms similar to asthma. In addition, its pollen reacts cross-reacts with some other allergenic plants, whose combination is even more allergen, and when touched it also causes unpleasant irritation of the skin. It is worth noting in this respect that ambrosia produces a lot of pollen and that the production period, if expressed as such, is quite a long time since it lasts from late summer until the end of autumn. Ambrosia is very popular in newly settled areas, in urban areas, as well as on the banks of rivers and lakes and other areas for leisure. This may also have a negative impact on tourism if visitors avoid areas with more ambrosia, which means that tourist workers or tourism companies should also be interested in this area. Pelinophilic ambrosia is spreading rapidly throughout our country as a result of the warming of the planet or at least climate change. It is likely that greater knowledge of the field and greater media presence in the past will also help to prevent proliferation, and it is only now that the number of registered acute allergies reaches a higher level. The Plant Health Act will, as a new one, contain a more precise definition of harmful plant species, while also inspection of the provision of plant protection against harmful plants. Land on which harmful plants will grow will have to be inspected by landowners and any new occurrence of harmful plants informed by competent inspectors and implemented measures to prevent the spread or repression of harmful plants. It is an interesting proposal, and it is worth taking into account, to consider, however, the expansion of the whole of matter and the possible law that will regulate the health care of people against harmful plants, because placing this arrangement in the Plant Health Act can be a solution, but perhaps not the best. It would make sense to go further and form a law that would fully address the health of people from harmful plants. Regardless, given the urgency of the problem, the Social Democrats think that the proposal is good, so we will support the law or we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary. A colleague and a colleague. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Plant Health Act refers to measures against the spread of harmful non-profit, alien plants. NGOs and health care have long known warnings and initiatives to combat the spread of pelinological ambrosia, which causes severe allergies at the time of flowering, and in nature undermines the original plants. The law supports the State Council, the local communities, the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, and the Government does not yet support it, but luckily we notice that something is also being prepared. Slovenia is the only country far from producing a risk assessment, in particular in terms of health and the environment, and has not adopted an appropriate programme of measures. We support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we expect early action against health and the environmentally harmful alien plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u151	Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues. If I can make a little joke at first, he can say that he obviously weeded what could combine the interests, views and opinions of the opposition and coalitions. I'm kind of happy about that. In the Parliamentary Group, we really agree with the drafter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Plant Health Act, with the Slovenian People's Party, that it is necessary to establish a legal basis for action in the introduction and prevention of the spread and suppression of ambrosia, as well as other invasive foreign plants that harm people's health and thereby cause great economic damage. We are pleased to be able to cooperate with the opposition's colleagues in this matter, which causes inconvenience to all citizens and citizens, and thus to prove that we know about such issues that solve everyday problems, as well as to cooperate. I am also pleased that the Government's initial negative opinion has changed and I also welcome the actions of the Minister, who is temporarily working at the Ministry of Agriculture, because I think he will do a very good job with this. According to experts’ assessment, ambrosia is now present practically throughout Slovenia, especially on motorways and on many other non-agricultural land. Through its excessive spread, it causes damage at different levels and poses one of the biggest threats to biodiversity as it can dominate other species in the ecosystem and, in extreme case, even the extinction of one of the indigenous species. We therefore welcome the systemic regulation of this problem in the Group of Members, because without the legal basis, which will lay down measures in more detail, it will be difficult to deal with the aggressive spread of this foreign plant. Since such plants are a global problem, it is also our obligation to take appropriate measures, in the example of the other countries, to prevent their spread, because we have noticed that this is already being done by all countries around us. Therefore, it seems to me that it is high time that we, too, will actively and systematically approach it. For we have seen certain propaganda things in Croatia, Bosnia, Hungary and the like, and I hope that this will be the case for us. Data from health services also point to the urgency of the immediate adoption of this law. According to some data, already about 50%, i.e. half of the population of Slovenia is allergic in some way and the number is still growing. Ambrosia is a plant that is highly allergic and at low concentrations causes severe reactions and causes serious problems. These problems also result in economic damage due to the absence and cost of treatment. Unlike other allergies, such as lescos or birch allergies, an allergy to ambrosia occurs much more violently and with much more pronounced problems. In the event of non-treatment, the disease eventually develops into asthma. I think that these data clearly show that even some euro that will have to be allocated to these measures and to work to suppress this dangerous weed will not be thrown aside and will be returned again and again in a different way. Indeed, in the Group of Members, at the initiative of citizens and citizens who have already addressed us last year, we have referred to the question sent by the competent ministries, in which we have drawn attention to the problem of ambrosia and the need for early action in this direction. Ambassadors Villa Trophynik and Tadej Slapnik highlighted this issue and found that ambrosia in an area you know more and more in the Ptuj area is growing more and more, both between planted crops and abandoned land. We are therefore pleased that colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party have also prepared, in cooperation with the expert from the Ministry of Agriculture, additions to the plant health law and that today we are considering this legal basis following a reduced procedure. We will truly support the marriage in the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the amendment and the amendment of the law, as it regulates and lays the groundwork for the Government to take necessary measures to prevent the spread of non-profit plant species, including, in particular, the spread of pelinalis ambrosia, which is very harmful both to agricultural crops and especially to human health. In order to protect human health, it is essential to systematically monitor the introduction of prevention and control of such harmful plants. In order to prevent the spread of ambrosia and thereby reduce its density and to prevent the spread of its floral powder, regular systemic measures should be introduced. Regular hives or appropriate treatment and care for these lands should be arranged so that the insemination of ambrosia does not occur. Of course, there is also a need to regulate the way in which pollen is monitored. It is known that for a number of years, at least ten years, they have been alerting this problem in the phytosanitary service. Many initiatives and complaints are also received by Members and Members. The law also provides a basis for action in the event of the occurrence of other foreign weeds, as they cause increasing damage in agriculture. The exotic weed species are increasingly flooding Europe, mainly from America, Brazil, and Mexico. In addition to natural distributors, these kinds of plants transport all kinds. That is why we must act on time. It is known that ambrosia has completely crushed, for example, the beech plant in Savina Valley, near Gornja Radgona, for example, Faber's fly completely overgrown the corn plant, at the locations near Montenegro in Koroška and at Podčetrk it became an oil beet problem for corn. In the Logar Valley, she clenched a golden rod and chased the bees out of it. We are certainly Members of the Slovenian People's Party, however, convinced that it is most urgent to take action against ambrosia due to allergies that are harmful and very unpleasant for people and the expensive for health treasury. We therefore support the adoption of amendments and the amendment of the law as soon as possible, and we will also support all amendments that take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, and we will also support the amendment which sets 60 days for the adoption of regulations or for the determination of measures, because, as said, action must be taken quickly and the competent authorities for the preparation of measures and regulations already exist and can act quickly. All landowners, farmers and municipalities have long been waiting and supporting these measures. As I said in the introduction, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the changes and additions to the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2010 In doing so, I would point out that Mr Žerjav, on behalf of the applicants, and Mr Minister, may report at any time with a raise of hands. I am putting to the debate first Article 3 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Secretary has signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment to Article 3 supports the Government because it is editorial in nature and is needed because of false convocations or because of terminology harmonisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you. There are no others to discuss, so I am concluding the debate on Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 16 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed mag. Merry Christmas. I'm opening the application. Mr. Minister, do you want a word now or at the end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The proposed amendment, which reduces the time limit for the issue of a sub-law to 60 days, is unacceptable because the proposed period of 60 days for the adoption of a sub-law is too short. If we want the government regulation to be professionally and well prepared, it will take some time. And the resolution on normative activities adopted by the Government in July 2009 and the National Assembly in November 2009 has a special chapter aimed at guidelines for cooperation with the professional and other interested public. The minimum recommendations set out in these guidelines should specifically specify the time limit for public participation in the preparation of the regulations to be kept for at least 30 to 60 days. This means that the regulation has been made publicly available at this time on the websites in order to ensure that the professional public responds and that the general public is informed. A broad social consensus is needed for a measure to suppress pelinalis ambrosia, as the regulation will impose on plant, plant and controlled products and land owners the mandatory implementation of specific measures for which holders take responsibility, including criminal responsibility. It follows from the foregoing that the period of 60 days for the adoption of a sub-law is too short and is therefore not supported by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u160	Once again, thank you for your word, Mr President. I support these amendments myself, because there is also a deadline to be put in place, and perhaps later we could find a common language with the minister, another time period. I would like to talk about some other aspects. Mr Minister mentioned that there are other allergens, and I certainly agree with him. I'd like to warn you about a combination of allergens that only work in pairs if they don't meet, they're not dangerous. I would also point out that almost 50% of these reactions can be attributed to ambrosia, especially because the beginning of an allergen reaction is enough. What does that mean? This means that before the first flower, before the first flower, you can step back inside, and in the rainy days, you can be undisturbed outside. And the ambrosia blooms when it's hot, and that sufficient amount of response can penetrate the apartments and you're not safe from it. Ambrosia is a profit for multinationals. I know a whole bunch of help like Flixonase, it's a nasal spray, it starts with it, the allergy can spread to the eyes, then on the airways and then you need Flixotide, Berdonal, Singapore, Claritine, Phlonid, and something else. So many aids and help make it impossible for a person to know when to turn. Allergics have been found to increase, which is of particular concern among young people. How, though, will they live and move as much as possible in the final environment? We have heard of environmental impacts from colleagues whose plants have already been wiped out by local ambrosia. I believe that the removal of ambrosia should not be a major problem, as it is now possible to act because it is mostly growing in abandoned areas, so owners would not protest very strongly. I see this, for example, when I drive to work, that on both sides of the road from Medvod to the inn of Yelen, at the entrance to Šiška, at the time of flowering all yellow. There is already a lot of ambrosia on public surfaces, along the railway lines as well. As far as I know, railways are already taking action because they can grow up in a dangerous vicinity of the tracks, which may be an obstacle to rail transport. That is why this positive energy would suggest directing the relevant legislation so that not only one economic sector could deal with it, but with some comprehensive action. We have heard of the hardness of the seeds, which in nature preserves up to 30 years of fertilisation. Because they are light, the wind carries them for miles and more, so they have a tremendous expansional ability. He drew attention to climate change, which is already more favourable to ambrosia and more likely to be an expansion. In places with ambrosia, they've been fighting for almost a hundred years. In addition to climate change, I would also point to new lifestyles, a new way of farming, which is more favourable for ambrosia. I am pleased that the Government will prepare measures, and we will definitely cooperate and help because we are aware of the seriousness of the problem. Perhaps it would also show what the colleagues have already warned, besides ambrosia, to prepare the ground for other plants. On the professional pages of work, it was possible to read that there was a danger of expansion of some animal species as well. Some are welcome, it is said that the beaver has settled again in the Krakow Forest and Mura’s sleeves, because it is a famous water flow regulator and contributes to biodiversity. There is also a need for a study on what we will pursue, what we will fight against, and what will contribute to biodiversity. That's why I think it shows the law and the amendments to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 16 speaks of when the law is to be enforced. The government somehow proposes that this be in six months. The amendment is proposed in 60 days. However, we have heard from the Minister that there are certain difficulties in respecting this time, in particular so that the public can participate in the drafting of sub-legislative acts. However, I must say that it grieves me and that I am concerned that, in fact, the inactivity of the ministry and certain ones is, in my opinion, as we have seen in the presentation of the law on the committee, if I say so, prevented bureaucratic structures in the ministry from dealing with ambrosia as early as this year. I think that's too bad. If the warnings given had been taken into account, and today we had heard that they had been given by the Zares Group, given in the Slovenian People's Party, given in the Slovenian National Party, the Member's questions had already been very common in the past year with regard to ambrosia, if they had already begun to work actively, intensively on this matter, then we could have already prepared certain measures for this year and the flowers that would start there in July would have already begun to be persecuted and actively involved in destroying this dangerous allergen plant. I understand the embarrassment that has arisen, and I agree that the act of law is nevertheless, given that it will cause and touch many interests and that there will also be a need for some coordination, that this must be a public debate, must be included in particular because it will also depend on the good will and active pursuit of this plant, depending very much on how successful we will be in persecuting this plant. This will also have to be done in many areas where things are growing. Above all, I must say that at this moment, Minister, I hope that you will succeed in this role as you have it. Certain things need to be accelerated and implemented by this year or by this year’s flowering. Baskets - especially where the state has its fingers in between, if I say so, on the railways - indirectly, along motorways and the like, could already be active this year, whether we already have sub-legal acts or not, if the Government commits itself to calling on these actors, who could be active already this year. We will, in a way, respect because we are quite committed to respecting the procedure and public participation in the implementation of the rules, so we will not support the amendment. However, I would like to hear from you, in some way, a commitment, or perhaps in some way your opinion, whether it would be possible to speed up such measures already in this year and not even leave the flowering season to the fact that there is only a sub-law at that time, for which it is largely responsible, at least so the last time I got a feeling after the debate, and also you were in some way in considerable embarrassment precisely because of those people who should have shown the most activity and in some way be a driving force. I hope that this act, which will be produced, would not prevent such measures, which could be encouraged by the Government in at least those matters affecting state-owned enterprises or para-national institutions, already this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! This amendment is in fact crucial whether we will enforce the law already this year, that is, before this year's flowering of this ambrosia, or whether we will not enforce it until next year. Clearly, there have been several issues in this regard in the past year. We also asked in October, we received an answer in November, and in this reply the ministry wrote about this, quote: "But by the next flowering period of this type, July 2010, the Interdepartmental Group can prepare a set of appropriate measures following the example of countries where they already have an active policy of suppressing ambrosia and it with appropriate material and in an appropriate manner to make it available to the public which must participate in the measures." This is what our officials at the Ministry of Agriculture have prepared in response to the Minister's question. This means that they were probably doing something about it from November until almost the beginning of May next year. I hope that in this answer to my question, they have not lied. Therefore, it seems to me that two months of these, November, December, January, February, March, April, six months of preparation, so at least they have provided in the question of parliament, obviously enough time to speed things up in those 60 days, have done everything possible to bring this law into force already this year, so that this year, so that some activities can already take place in June of this flowering. I believe that it is impossible for us to be successful in our first activities this year. I'm sure you don't. We'll probably need more seasons, more years. But we can do something this year. Look, Mr. Minister, I believe that if we ask officials whether 60 days is enough to prepare any sub-law, we will always have an answer that this cannot be done. I've had a lot of experience with this myself. However, the question is whether we are willing to trust officials or simply charge them, not least they are employees there, so they get paid there to do a little more and prepare these documents that are needed. I was simply appalled when I came from the economy to the Ministry when I found out what was the thinking of the employees at the Ministry. These are two completely different worlds. I got a feeling at the Ministry, like we have time to go, nothing needs to be done right now, we'll be there as soon as we get there. I wasn't used to this kind of thinking. I'm afraid that's the way thinking is in this case. I estimate that we should simply insist on giving these officials the task of preparing this within 60 days. And if they are unable to prepare, there will be others who will be able to prepare it. If we also start thinking in public administration in a way that is constantly thought in the economy - there is no question whether it can be done overnight or not. If you don't, someone else will come instead of you who will. Then it would probably be much better for all of us. So, Minister, I appeal to you not to say that we are asking you to do everything we can to press those who are preparing this act or the necessary acts to prepare it in 60 days, bearing in mind that we will be able to do everything for this season. But we can get started. And if we start, we'll do a lot. By the way, since they were dilemmas, you'll have to destroy them, you'll have to eat them, etc. A lot of this is already happening, Dars cuts, DRSC cuts, road companies moose, municipalities moose and so on. But the question is, when does this happen? If it's done in time, we've taken a step further. For these first steps, for the first few activities we should do everything and more here at the Ministry, and then I am sure that everyone else involved in this will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Hello again! Ambrosia and control measures are not unknown. Many countries have already introduced these measures. And even for our professional public, as we have heard on the committee itself, it is not a surprise, and therefore we think when we support this amendment that it is possible to do so. However, from the debates that have opened up on the committee itself, those we have attended there, I think it was very clear to us that the rabbit in this bush, described by the predecessor, Mr Žerjav, is said to be operational and also in some way in ambition, the desire of the state administration to see whether such acts are adopted at a higher or lower rate. This is not irrelevant because we are speaking, as has already been said, whether the measures will be implemented this year or will be implemented next year. As Parliamentary Orazmova has said, this is a whole range of measures, for which it is necessary to delegate to institutions which are, in one way or another, state-owned, for example, Dars, Slovenian Railways, according to these basic railways, where there is also a need to first develop these plants and eventually to redistribute them and then to extend them to this environment, it is possible to help those who have problems with deadlines, to work with the public, which is not the case with a number of other measures. The point is also that these measures can also be divided and, in particular, those relating to the institutions mentioned above, as well as to the municipalities and the like, to be timed this year, but some measure may be taken, where public awareness is also needed, and a longer period of time. However, I certainly think it is right that this problem, which is evident, is a problem that we have pointed out in the National Assembly quite early, as already said last fall, so that all measures can be prepared, but unfortunately they were not, because at the end of the Slovenian People's Party tabled this proposal for a law. However, I think that, at this point in time, this hand should be reduced as much as possible and even in this year's year, the struggle with this unpleasant and dangerous plant in its own way should begin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Minister has also made a statement. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. The government is not proposing a six-month deadline or it is against a 60-day deadline because it would then be too late and there would be nothing we could do this year. I want something done this year, but I also want us to have such a deadline to give these sub-laws, that is, a government regulation, under one normal procedure. Of course, we need the agreement of those affected here, especially those who will ultimately bear responsibility or criminal responsibility. I'm not talking about us taking advantage of six months. Not far. I will also give instructions in these days, as long as I am the Minister of Agriculture, that the activities begin immediately. And if none of your parliamentary questions have been met, I regret it, but I believe that there is something, we will not start with anything, but we will be able to start off with some of the professional backgrounds, information, data, and work will be faster. But I also agree with you on official philosophy. Officials are there, and we ministers are coming and going, but fortunately we have this privilege that as long as we're there, they have to do what we say. And I tell you that I will order or need to proceed immediately with the implementation or preparation of these regulations. Once again, it seems to me that the 60-day deadline for this short, 6-month-old, will not be, or will I advise my successor not to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm opening an application. Please sign up for everyone you want to discuss! Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment, and a short period of time, which will not experience mine and our support, comes from that bazaar: "Give me your finger so I can rip your hand off." The simple problem of pelinological ambrosia in Slovenia is, but it is certainly not the first and most urgent agricultural problem. Of course, it is politically important for some. I regret that the story of the history of this law has not been made public any more, because it is such that it is a part of shame, but I agree with the fact that one official job is that it still has large reserves, probably our own, but when we propose such laws, we will be divided once in this Chamber into opposition and position and unfortunately Parliamentarians never, and we have never had a single act to increase the effectiveness of these structures. I said in my view that the problem is much broader, that the environment ministry should also be included, so far the agricultural sphere has been involved. As in agriculture, the problem is certainly environmental and then health, so we certainly need some time. We will also need quite a few resources, which are not fully provided at this time. Ultimately, it will not be right and right to go through all the costs of the owner and the municipalities. These are the key messages that need to be addressed and, above all, control. If we link ourselves to this action alone, let us clear Slovenia in one day, which has really connected and brought the nation together, if we have checked in individual municipalities how the inspection system works, then we see that there is still a lot to be done in the field of inspections, especially in the field of legislation. If in some municipalities we have been able to unite and connect, a municipal medotric inspection works, we can say that the problem is an environmental inspection. Without reading her off, but we've done an environmental inspection, which we've given her as our last contribution to control chimneys, and we've done so much for them in these years, regardless of the Government, that they're simply not part of it. And all these regulations and all the laws, if they don't have effective control back there and force them, are of little value. These are the things we still have to do. Just write it down, and this is the domain of environmental inspection will be far too small. This is the greatest reason for nothing to move forward in this area. We will have some kind of paper law that solves things well at the principal level, but in practice something small will happen. It is necessary, as Minister Žarnic has already announced, to redefine relations and sit down and reach agreements between environmental, municipal, editorial, and police services and, of course, all these matters will be more effective. I think the 60-day deadline is too short, and I'm going to oppose the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs. Roach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will be in complete opposition to this amendment and also to the law. I have to tell you why about the amendment. Because the deadline within which the sub-law referred to in Article 6 of this Law is to be drawn up is certainly too short. Not because officials at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food would be lazy, incapable or overly bureaucratic, as we have heard today. But mainly because of the need to harmonise themselves with the Ministry of Health, Environment and Space, and in particular for transport, because the largest share of the costs related to the destruction of ambrosia is specifically ambrosia, since other types of ambrosia in the family of ambrosia are mentioned in this law, except in the past decades and centuries, and are also allergens. Not so strong, maybe, or in a different way, but they are. As a result, it will have to be checked first how the state will actually share the costs. We see from the documentation that two congregations, Hoče and Izola, gave a positive opinion on this law, while they were not one, nor did the other municipal administration realize that the municipalities of this law were also followed by expenses that no one else would cover as congregations themselves. All other congregations took the matter with their left hand. The most important thing about this law is that it is actually located in the wrong area. This law is either or, in particular, in my humble opinion to the Ministry of Health, because the destruction of plants from the ambrosia family is a matter of protecting human health, not a matter of protecting crops from weeds called ambrosia. We already have the first defect of this law here. The second defect to be seen is that if it is not already located at the Ministry of Health, the first one should be called to tackle this problem at all, the Ministry of the Environment, because it is a foreign plant that destroys biodiversity in our country and because the Ministry of Health is not enough to address this problem, the Ministry of the Environment must address this problem. And the third reason is that ambrosia grows mostly along roads and railways, along railway lines, but not like weeds in the fields. Mr Göncz will also have a chance to say yours, but the fact is that the most ambrosia is seen and grows along different roads. Therefore, I said that the Ministry of Transport was the one that would bear the largest share of the damage or costs of removing ambrosia. I absolutely agree that ambrosia is necessary, it is likely to be completely eradicated, but if only it can be brought to such a level of increase in Slovenia with it, so that it does not begin to compete with our forests. If we look at Hungary, if we look at France, if we look at northern Italy, we see that it's actually already so widespread, we don't have good estimates for this area, so widespread that it's actually become a problem especially for human health. Everything else is secondary. If the problem were weeding ambrosia on field surfaces, we all know that there are herbicides that can destroy it. But there is no other place where there is no interest in eradicating it, because there is no need, and there it does special damage. Because of this and because of what my colleague Saiovic has said, because of the unusual, I cannot use another term, because of the unusual conduct of this law I will vote against this amendment, because we must, if we have already hung something that does not belong there, then at least let them have time to comply with all the other ministries affected and to be able to prepare decent acts. By the way, I would like to point out that in Article 6, there is a point that I think is completely unnecessary, that when an inspector finds that a foreign plant has appeared in an area and has to be declared a specially protected area against this plant, then I think it is funny to wear this plant to some institution, an institution that may make a classification of the plant and so on, and I think it's a little funny. An inspector who can't tell the difference between pelinophilic ambrosia and something else, I don't know if he can continue to be an inspector.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you. Anybody else want some? I can still see the desire for a debate, so I'm opening the application. We are at Article 16 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Let me be clear enough in the beginning not to support this amendment, nor will I support the law. It's not because you think marriage isn't necessary. The law may have been made in strong good will, however, to make arrangements or to encourage those who think about doing something. But marriage, as such, will not solve the problem of broadlist ambrosia. Ambrosia is really a foreign plant that has its 20 species in us, but it has been home in Slovenia for 100 years and doctors know very well how and how at the time of flowering it affects us, especially those who are more sensitive and who are subject to allergies. Why do I think that it is not necessary to support this law, but to address the wish not only to this ministry, which has somehow become the mother of this law, but actually to the ranks of others? My colleague, Breda Pečan, listed several ministries, including the Ministry of Health. If we come from a new doctrine of the European Community, in fact, for some coordinated fight against this really hard plant or weed, it is necessary to organise, at home, a very good database, where, last but not least, the Ministry of Higher Education, which supports the information system and telecommunications, as countries need to inform each other about these things, the wind condition and the like, that I do not tell everyone what I am talking about. In front of us is a law that will require quite a few efforts from different ministries. In fact, we must not allow additional burdens to be imposed by some of the already burdened budgets of local communities. However, I think it will be necessary, precisely because of mutations and such large and many allergies not only among the population of the learning youth, but also among the elderly, to address this problem, the effect of the floral powder of ambrosia on the respiratory system, the various forms of skin sensitivities, dermatitis and the like. This will require much more attention and coordination between ministries. However, herbicides are certainly not a suitable way to destroy this weed in the fields; they may be more appropriate along railways and roads or highways. But this is the problem that they record, and if not all of them get organized and together, it will not be solved because we know how it is with weeds. Those of you who have ever dealt with any weeds in your life, you know, it's not like that overnight, and it takes quite a few years to get to work. However, with all these interventions, you should not cause problems on the other hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 16? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the law and amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE REFERENCE AND HUMAN INITIATION LAW, REFERENCE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. Regarding the proposal for a law, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the bill-maker, Mr Mag. Branku Grims, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u176	Your Honor! On behalf of the SDS Group, everyone has a very nice greeting. In Greek mythology, ambrosia was food for the gods, and after a double discussion on ambrosia, the parliamentary gods must have been fed up and it is time to focus on more earthly matters. The right to a referendum is a constitutional right, it is enshrined in several articles of the Slovenian Constitution and stems essentially from its very beginning in Article 2 of the Constitution to the first place, it is not a coincidence, it places the direct realization of the authority of the people and then, in the 90th article, which specifically speaks of the referendum, it divides it further. Accordingly, Parliament has already adopted, and then has repeatedly completed, the last time in its last term, the Referendum and Human Initiative Act. In this last addition to the law, the article which allows, I quote, "that the request for a referendum may relate to the constitutional law amending the Constitution in its entirety, where the constitutional law contains only a single amendment or more of the related amendments to the Constitution. It also allows that the request for a referendum may apply only to individual substantively rounded parts of the constitutional law or to several such parts." Then he precises the conditions for this and ends "...on the terms and conditions, more requests for the referendum may also be submitted." This allows for a referendum amending the Constitution, when signed, you know that it applies special conditions, including the quorum, in such a way that it refers only to one part, to one amendment, to several amendments or to the constitutional law as a whole. We are proposing exactly the same solution in the SDS Group now also for the legislative referendum, because, in fact, the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative in this part is illogical, in part it could be said to be inconsistent, because what it allows in the constitutional referendum does not allow, does not allow in the legislative referendum, which is also a constitutional matter. After the provisions on the previous legislative referendum have been deleted or repealed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, it allows only a confirmatory referendum, but only on the law in its entirety. This was for all of us when we decided to do so in Parliament, because this change required a two-thirds quorum in the National Assembly, which is a very high degree of consensus, in fact it did not seem so important, but in the period after that it proved to be a number of problems. In recent months, a number of top constitutional law experts have pointed out that it would be only reasonable to introduce this solution, i.e. the possibility of a referendum also being signed on a piece, on a particular provision of the law or on a number of provisions, on a whole, or to enable the creation of a question in such a way that, in terms of the protection of human rights, a disputed constitutional matter can be excluded from the decision on the law, as this can also be achieved by an appropriate question. This would allow the fullest possible realization of this constitutional category, which is also the right to a referendum. There is now a problem in completing one single provision which may relate to an area of human rights regulation, it is simply not possible to carry out a full referendum on the law. This would not be such a problem if the Constitutional Court acted self-limitingly in doing so in order to use this as restrictively as possible. Unfortunately, however, constitutional practice, constitutional practice has gone the other way and one referendum has been banned. In doing so, the human rights of all are gravely violated. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] citizens and citizens. [[...]] Therefore, the adoption of this law would also be in the interest of the Constitutional Court, as it would be burdened by the constant perception that the body which should protect human rights becomes the body which restricts them. For the right to a referendum is also a human right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms Tina Terzan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you. Dear Members! At a meeting last week, the government drew up an opinion on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. The bill proposes the introduction of a subsequent legislative referendum, on a particular part or on a specific provision of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not, in principle, object to the proposed solution. There are also reasons for amending the law in the opinion of the Government, but the proposed solution has some shortcomings. The main disadvantage of the proposed solution, according to the Government, is that it does not foresee the possibility of creating and resolving a situation where a decision at the referendum due to the failure to enforce a particular part or provisions of the law would lead to the non-consistency of the law. The mechanisms by which nonconsistencies, which could arise in these cases in the law, should be carefully examined and regulated. The government also considers that the proposal for a law is incompatible with itself. In contrast, the articles themselves are articles of the proposal, since in some articles they speak of a referendum on a particular part of the law, i.e. on any particular part of the law, and in others on the substantively rounded part of the law. Furthermore, the proposal does not provide for criteria of procedure and competence to assess what is the substantively rounded part of the law. They also oppose some of the arguments in the introduction of the bill and the articles of the bill. The Government therefore, in principle, supports a solution whereby only part of the law or its individual provision can be voted on and the proposed bill does not support it for that reason. He believes that in a particular case, it is a very difficult issue of expertise, which needs to be carefully considered. It therefore proposes that, within the framework of an already existing working group preparing amendments to electoral legislation, whose members are the three representatives of the proponents, a consistent and professionally more appropriate proposal for amendments and a supplement to the law on referendum and human initiative should be drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. He shall have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u180	Mr President! Since its adoption in 1994, the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative has already received a number of amendments on the basis of decisions of the Constitutional Court, and also on the basis of the need to reshape individual articles, either with a view to their later dictatorship or because of the need for changes that have proved to be practical as such. In the Parliamentary Joint Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposal for amendments, which is today under consideration in the National Assembly, offers a new opportunity to clarify the legislative referendum, which has proved necessary as such. Following the current regulation, only the full law can be decided in the subsequent legislative referendum. It is a matter of deciding on a law already adopted by the National Assembly as a legislative body, but before its proclamation. The rejection of the law in the referendum, however, causes the law to be rejected in its entirety, although only its individual provisions are disputed. This and current regulation will cause problems in larger laws or in so-called laws that define a specific legal area in full and contain more substantively rounded parts which are necessary and directly related. It is very difficult to find a political consensus on all issues because of the scope of the provisions that have been previously regulated in several laws, and at present the trend after their integration. Most likely, however, consensus has been reached for most articles. In the event of a decision at the referendum, disagreement between the electorate and the organisation of an area may lead to the rejection of the entire code, which may be extremely good. The proposed amendment to the law thus provides a solution to the problem presented, since it provides that voters at the referendum may decide to approve the law in its entirety, where it covers only a single amendment of the law or more of the related amendments of the law, where the law covers several unrelated amendments, the requirement for a legislative referendum may apply only to such a substantively rounded part of the law or to several such parts. In such a case, a number of referendum issues relating to each other may be asked, with other parts unrelated, a change in the law. However, several requests may also be submitted for a referendum covering different parts of the law. The referendum shall vote on each such issue separately and the outcome of the referendum shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposed regulation of the legislative referendum is welcome, so we will also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone, especially the well-known visitors on the balcony! Let me start by saying that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will vote in majority against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. And what would the proponents want to change? First of all, they propose the introduction of a subsequent legislative referendum on a particular part or provision of the law, in the case where the proposal includes several unrelated changes to the substantively rounded parts of the law or several such parts. The materially rounded part of the law is considered to be an unrelated change, or more unrelated but not related to other parts of the law, according to the introductory explanation - we do not find this in the articles. From this point of view, we can rightly ask ourselves about the real purpose and seriousness of the applicants, because, as the Government says in its opinion, the proposal for a law is incompatible with itself. It is contrary to paragraphs 1, 3 and 2 of the proposal, since the proposal in Articles 1 and 3 refers to a referendum on an individual part of the law and in Article 2, which deals with the referendum question, is a talk about the substantively rounded part of the law. For a point on an i proposal, it does not even provide for criteria, procedures and competences to assess what is a substantively rounded part of the law. As I have already mentioned, they object to the arguments in the introduction of the proposal and in the articles of the bill, as the proponents state in their explanation that the bill provides that voters may decide to approve the law adopted by the National Assembly, which concerns the law in its entirety, where it covers only a single amendment of the law or more of the related amendments to the law. Thus, voters in the referendum would no longer have the option of deciding on a new law or a whole novelty that would not only involve individual changes to the law or more related changes to the law. This is not found in the text of amendments to the articles of the law. Finally, a few words on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, at the request of the National Assembly, decided whether to reject amendments to the Law on Lawyers, the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector and the Law on Judicial Service would have counter-constitutional consequences. It decided that there would be anti-constitutional consequences in this case. It noted that the legislation in force only allows a referendum to be carried out on the whole text of the law, although the law may contain only some provisions which the referendum's proposing feel should be decided by the electorate at the referendum. In principle, we all agree that there are reasons for amending the law, but not in such an obvious way, because the solution to the problem is not as simple as the proponents have imagined, because the proposed amendments do not contain a type of deficiency, a lack of clarity, but the law itself is incompatible with itself. We agree with the opinion of the Government, which has made it clear and also explained that in this case it is a difficult professional issue - the emphasis is on "expert". Last but not least, a two-thirds majority is required for admission. Therefore, the Government's proposal is that, within the framework of an existing working group that is preparing to amend electoral legislation, some of which are also members of some of the candidates, a more professional proposal to amend referendum legislation should be drawn up. We will not support the changes and additions to the law in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative is one of the basic laws governing the way Article 3 of the Constitution of Slovenia is implemented, that it has power of the people in Slovenia and that it is directly and through elections based on the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial. Citizens and citizens exercise direct power through the elections of the bodies established by the Constitution. However, in the legislative process, which is expressly within the competence of the National Assembly, citizens and citizens shall cooperate with the decision-making process at the referendum. Their direct cooperation in determining the content of the law is therefore one of the fundamental issues of the exercise of their direct authority. Therefore, the referendum law is also adopted by a two-thirds majority. These principles and the importance of the law in the participation of citizens and citizens in the legislative process also require that, in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution governing the legislative referendum, all questions relating to the type of referendum, the procedure for proposing and deciding at the referendum and the way in which the referendum will be implemented are of such importance that those issues must be regulated precisely and clearly, so that they do not raise any doubts as to the content and consequences of the referendum decision. In view of the application of these principles of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court also repealed its decision in the U-I-217/02 of 23 February 2005 the entire chapter of the Law on the Prior Legislative Referendum. It found that its application, particularly with regard to the clarity of the content of the referendum issues and the consequences of the decision taken, which obliges the National Assembly to apply the relevant substantive application in the law, caused so much confusion that it is therefore difficult to determine what the content of the previous legislative referendum is and how to introduce it into law. For the same reasons, the legislator, namely the National Assembly, has no longer included them as an option in the new adoption and the law in force when aligning the law with the decision of the National Assembly. Since then, from 13. 6. In 2006, when the findings of the Constitutional Court began to take effect, Slovenia only knew the confirmatory legislative referendum. After the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, citizens and citizens shall decide whether or not to adopt the law. The legislative procedure cannot therefore be affected by the referendum. The provisions of Article 90 of the Constitution shall remain in force by a subsequent referendum. The role and responsibility of the National Assembly for the content, consistency and clarity of the law is increasing. Such established solutions in the law have been confirmed as appropriate, since the application of the provisions following the previous legislative referendum has previously resulted in the adoption of the law and in the interpretation of the content of the decision taken at the referendum, a series of questions and ambiguity, until certain referendum decisions have also been introduced into the law. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we have before us a bill tabled by Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The drafters drafted a text which, according to the opinion of the Social Democrats between the objectives of the law, the text of the articles and the explanation of the law, is not consistent and does not know exactly what the proposed content of the law is. It is possible to find text among the objectives of the law that the referendum question may refer to a single amendment of the law or more of the related amendments to the law. How the referendum question is raised and whether such a request must be consistent after a decision at the referendum, cannot be established from the text. However, after the proposal, the referendum question may also refer to individual or even more individual issues, with other parts of unrelated issues, with a specific referendum question being raised on each of these issues. Each of these issues shall also be voted on separately and the result of the vote shall also be taken into account for each individual. These individual issues may, according to the proposal, be an indefinite and unlimited number, an unlimited mass of individual referendum issues, on which the vote is voted on separately, thus further allowing the outcome of the referendum to change the content law in a particular part or make the law mutually inconsistent. The disagreements and illogicality of the text are then continued in the proposed law. The text of amendments and additions to Articles 1 and 2 provides for a referendum question only for individual parts, a separate chapter of the law or only for an individual provision of the law, with the application of a single and no longer linked and unrelated questions. However, the explanation of the law provides for a different content once again, since it provides for a confirmation referendum for the law in its entirety only where it covers only individual changes to the law or related changes to the law. However, where the law covers several unrelated changes, once again not clear what are unrelated changes, the applicants consider that the requirement may apply only to such a materially rounded part of the law or even to a particular provision of the law. With regard to the proposed content, it can therefore be said that it is unclear. Given the most well-meaning interpretation of the content, the applicants simply wish that the referendum could specifically decide that I should simplify, in that article, in that substantive set or in that chapter, perhaps even in several of them, with whom the drafters of the law did not agree in their adoption process, they were voted on. The applicants therefore introduce a completely new phase of the legislative procedure into the process of enacting the law. Part of the law, according to their proposal as legislator, provides for the National Assembly, which is also in accordance with the Constitution. However, part of the bill's proposal, in a vague and unspecified scope and content, directly as legislators, designate citizens and citizens in the referendum in such a way that it is not approved and the law is adopted, irrespective of the compatibility and the possibility of application of the law without those provisions. It may be possible to guess why the applicants want such a law so that they can say how they agree with a law, perhaps even the family law as a whole, only to remove certain solutions from it. But even if this was the case, we should at least express it clearly and accurately. Now, however, a prepared law cannot contain serious substantive and professional judgment. It also found no comparison and no support in European legislation. Finally, it can be argued that no or least relative can be found for the proposed solutions in the law in comparable European countries. That the content law must be checked most seriously in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, since it is essential to interfere with the legislative procedure and the role of the National Assembly in it. That the proposed law is unclear that the interpretations and texts of the objectives of the law, articles and explanations between themselves are incompatible to such an extent and allow for such different interpretations that the law is also inappropriate in terms of the clarity and specificity of the content to be adopted. We therefore believe that there is no reason for the Referendum Law to reintroduce provisions that would further complicate the referendum decision. The legislative procedure should remain the competence of the National Assembly and citizens should be approved or rejected by the Referendum Act. These are also the reasons why Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Frane Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u186	Good-bye. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representative of the Ministry or Government and also Minister of Fine Greetings, Colleagues and Colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative be supplemented by the possibility of deciding not only the law in its entirety but also the individual work or provisions of the law at the subsequent legislative referendum. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative was passed in 1994. He set up a referendum to amend the Constitution and a preliminary and subsequent legislative referendum. The 2004 amendment regulated the possibility of voting by post from abroad at diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. In 2005, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of the previous legislative referendum in terms of preventing abuse of the referendum and unnecessary obstruction of the legislative procedure, and in 2006 we amended the law accordingly. Since then, only a subsequent legislative referendum on the whole law has been possible. The referendum is one of the forms of human decision-making, which needs reassurance, that is to say, the remedy of the flaws that manifest itself in life. Therefore, we are now proposing a brief, simple complement, in which it would be possible - not the whole law, but just a single provision in the event that the whole law is generally very good and the individual provision is inadequate - to give to the review of public decision-making. The right to a referendum is important if not even the most important constitutional right. Right at the beginning of the Constitution, which is the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, I quote: "In Slovenia the people have power. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections." Watch out. The right to a referendum is even before the right to vote. The first paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution states: "The National Assembly may call a referendum on matters governed by law." That's the Constitution. So about every question and not just the whole law. The Constitution therefore does not impose any specific substantive restrictions. In last year's rulings, the Constitutional Court is only saying in more detail that it is possible to prevent a referendum, I quote: "When the legislation in force is unconstitutional and the aim of the legislature is to abolish this unconstitutionality by means of an adopted law." However, the Constitutional Court of 9. 11. 2009 recalls, I quote: "These provisions, of course, cannot be interpreted in such a way as to enable the legislator to abuse or exercise his powers, which would destroy the right to a referendum. This could be the case if it were clear that the legislator was in a legal regime that would otherwise want to eliminate some unconstitutionality, including the regulation of other issues which are not directly related to the purpose of the finding of unconstitutionality," please note, "that these issues could not be decided at the referendum. The abuse of legislative power or its performance would not be permitted by the Constitutional Court." So the Constitutional Court. That the right to a referendum could not be so easily played, the Constitutional Court proposes to examine an appropriate legal solution. In his separate affirmative opinion, constitutional judge Dr. Cyril Ribičič says, quote: "The decision of the Constitutional Court is particularly difficult because, after the closure of the previous referendum at the subsequent legislative referendum, it is only possible to rule on or against the whole law. I understand that call," so Ciril Ribičič, "as a reminder that the voter and the electorate should be allowed to decide on specific issues of particular importance, for example in the context of the renegotiation referendum." Thus, the separate opinion of the Constitutional Judge Dr. Ribičič. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Parties have prepared a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, which would allow for an equally subsequent legislative referendum also on a particular part or provision of the law and not only on the law as a whole. The Government, as we have heard, also supports the proposed solution in its opinion, but it has two concerns. Firstly, it is necessary to examine and regulate the case if the referendum rejection of a part of the law would result in internal non-consistency of the law. And secondly: it is also necessary to define clearly what is the materially rounded part of the law. First of all, let's start with the first thought. The question is, what if, by the referendum rejection of an individual part or individual provision of the law, there is a lack of consistency, in our opinion, it is necessary to resolve it by supplementing Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which governs the procedure for final harmonisation of the law. Perhaps it would make sense to refer this solution to the amendment to Article 3 of the proposal, namely Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which should be read as follows: "If the Council of State considers that, by rejecting an individual part of or an individual provision of the law which is the subject of a referendum decision, the law would become mutually inconsistent or inconsistent with other laws, it would adopt a harmonisation amendment which becomes an integral part of the referendum issue, so that if an individual part or an individual provision of the law is rejected, the harmonisation amendment has already been adopted. The National Assembly would adopt a harmonisation amendment at the invitation or prior to the invitation to a referendum on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, which should specify the rules of procedure." To the second concern expressed by the Government; the issue of content-concluded content has already been addressed in Article 5a of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which speaks of a constitutional referendum, I quote Article 5a of the law in force, which we are supplementing in other parts. Thus it says: "The request for a referendum may refer to the constitution of the law amending the Constitution in its entirety or to one or more of its individual substantively rounded parts. The request for a referendum may relate to a constitutional law amending the Constitution in its entirety where the constitutional law contains only a single constitutional amendment or more of the related constitutional changes. Where the constitutional law covers several unrelated amendments to the Constitution, the request for a referendum may only apply to a specific substantively rounded part of the constitutional law or to several such parts. A materially rounded part of the constitutional law shall be regarded as a part containing, individually, an unrelated amendment to the Constitution with other parts, or more interlinked but with other parts of the unrelated changes to the Constitution. Under these conditions, several requests for a referendum may also be submitted." Such a definition has so far endured and has also been sufficient for the Government, including for all of us and for the Constitutional Court. We don't think it's necessary to look for hot water. It's already here in that marriage. However, if you feel that this is not sufficient, an amendment may be adopted in Article 2 of our proposal, which refers to the 5a quoted above. the article or this has already been adopted and the text in force shall be repeated mutatis mutandis in open 16c. Article 1(2) Let me finish. In fact, there is a great temptation for the legislator to have his proposal for a law or code, as mentioned, equipped with a single provision that resolves some, although minimally, unconstitutional, only to prevent a referendum, and because the Constitutional Court is not immune to temptation, in order to prohibit the referendum, by citing the unconstitutionality created by the rejection of a particular legal provision, we propose that both the legislator and the Constitutional Court should, as soon as possible, try to abuse their political power and without prejudice to the exercise of their constitutional right to direct decision in the referendum. I am sure that we must do so before we change the Constitution regarding the Constitutional Court. We therefore propose to give the law a green light for the continuation of the procedure. With the simple amendment of our proposal, it is possible to fully satisfy the Government's comments and, in any event, we will not be able to avoid any subsequent addition to Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u188	Dear, Vice-President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really support the objectives of the proposed solutions, which the applicants have written in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, on which only part of the law or its individual provision could be voted on in the referendum. We believe, however, that the proposals for a solution have given little thought and that the amendment makes the law unconstitutional as such. The draft law does not take into account the possibility that a decision in a referendum in which most voters would object to the application of an individual part of the law could lead to a legal void. In a hypothetical case, only those provisions of the new law which repeal the old one could remain valid after such a referendum. In the Group of Members, it is indeed expected that the appropriate mechanisms, which will prevent such and similar non-consistencies, will be covered within the framework of a comprehensive, professionally appropriate and consistent amendment of the Law on Referendum and on the human initiative prepared by the working group to amend electoral legislation. Otherwise, in the Group of Members, we will not really support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u190	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The bill provides that voters may decide on the approval of a law adopted by the National Assembly concerning the law in its entirety, where it covers only a single amendment of the law or more of the related amendments to the law. However, where the law covers several unrelated amendments, the requirement may apply only to such a, a materially rounded part of the law or even to the provision of the law itself. The proposal also regulates the procedure in the event that the implementation of the referendum could have anti-constitutional consequences. The Constitutional Court may decide if the National Assembly considers that, by deferring or rejecting the law of a particular part or provision of a law, there could be unlawful consequences. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the issue is of a very professional nature, but that the proposed law provides a good basis for solving the problem, so we will support it as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will take a position on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The application of modern democracy is seen as an indirect democracy established by elections and based on the formation of a representative body. Direct democracy denotes the different ways and forms of direct action of citizens in the exercise of power, and in democracy as a form of government, where people rule, the referendum is among all the most prominent form of direct democracy. It is clear that the referendum is not only compatible with the modern representative system, but that it has been complemented by a number of amendments to the indirect decision-making. The current law in the Republic of Slovenia on the referendum and the people's initiative regulates a number of types of referendums, and not to list all areas, I put the substance of the legislation at the forefront, which is also in connection with today's consideration of the amendment of the law. The National Assembly is as a representative body, and thus the legislative body independent of the drafting and adoption of the law, the electorates, by means of a referendum, only approve or reject the adoption of a law that is not yet in force. Humanity therefore decides on the law as a whole, and that is our current arrangement. It is interesting to see the way democracy is carried out, when the people in fact only decide on all matters of political power and, therefore, adopt laws, is known in a certain part of Switzerland. The proposal of the novel, which we are considering today, is somehow, in the light of the comparisons given, a step towards strengthening direct democracy. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the possibility of broadening the participation of people in making the most important legal and political decisions, as proposed in the paper, is acceptable on our part and is not rejected by priority. However, the fact that we have before us is a wide range of referendums or initiatives for them in recent times and the consequences that are their result. There is thus doubt or doubt as to whether the proposed regime could be a useful basis for political manipulation with voters and voters, which is an abuse of the constitutional basis of democratic decision-making. To avoid this and other serious problems from the point of view of the real importance of democracy and the legal legality of the constitutional system, our assessment requires a well-thought-out concept of changing the referendum election and an expert, consistent and effective legal basis, which unfortunately cannot be argued for this novelty. However, despite our accepted idea design, in terms of legal consistency, consistency and inadequacy in individual provisions, it is not in our opinion that it is appropriate to confirm it. Since the Government is in principle in favour of the proposed amendment and, in this regard, is also referring to the possibility of amending and upgrading electoral legislation in this direction, of course, under the condition of a more professionally appropriate proposal for amendments and the completion of the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, we are confident that appropriate changes will take place in the DeSUS Group in the short term and in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor to cancel the debate. Mr. Jakob the Presector - he will not discuss it. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. So we have proposed a amendment to the law on referendum and human initiative, because we believe that certain things should be decided by people and that this should also be possible in a way that allows you to decide only the work of the law. Indeed, it has already been said what was established with the original, that is, when the law was passed, how it then changed and brought news. So, among other things, the fact that the previous legislative referendum is no longer possible but can only be followed up. However, the solution offered is only possible about the whole marriage. We believe that if, in fact, the whole law might not be problematic, but only part of the law is problematic, we need to give people the opportunity to say it. Some of you used the term "abuse" and stuff. I think that if we allow people to talk about some things, it can't possibly be abuse, and I think it would be right for them to call the law "yes" at this stage or vote that it is suitable for further consideration. For in this way we will discuss it at all, and perhaps we will come up with a solution that is appropriate or acceptable for the majority. I think that the law has been well-intentioned and that it is right to let it go on or vote in favour and that we are discussing these possible amendments to the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav won't discuss it. Mr. Mag. Franci Žnidaršič will not discuss it. Dr. Pavel Gantar will not discuss it. Mr. Franz Pukšič will not discuss it. Anton Anderlich. [[No, no, ……]] Joseph Jerovšek will not discuss it. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will not discuss it. Mr. Franco Yuri will not discuss it. Mr. Vito Rozje will not discuss it. Mr. Lois Posedel will not discuss it. Mr. Jože Tanko won't discuss it. Aloysius Potočnik will not discuss it. Franco Juri won't discuss it. Mr. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you, once again, for the words of the President. There were a number of incomprehensible reasons to oppose this law. I have something to say to clarify the question. First, we return to the observations of the Constitutional Court, which can be read in their last rulings, where they point out the danger that the legislator, namely the National Assembly, the government coalition, that is, the majority, is involved in the legal regime in any article that eliminates some unconstitutionality in order to prevent a referendum. This is called the Constitutional Court of Abuse and continues to travel that it is indeed a problem because we have such an arrangement that it is possible to make a referendum review of only the law in its entirety, not the individual work. And this narrowness is exploited by the Constitutional Court, or the Constitutional Court, to point out that the legislator can use it to prevent a referendum. The Constitutional Court said that very well, because this old one is very current. You, Mr President, mentioned the family code. That's right. That's right. Indeed, there is a problem brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court, a problem in the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. This was determined by the Constitutional Court last July and ordered the National Assembly to abolish it within six months. We have twice tabled a proposal to eliminate exactly what the Constitutional Court has demanded. You've both refused. You can't think - and you've been saying over and over again that we're going to solve this in the family code. And even when the debate on the family code began, we immediately heard from the government or the government coalition that a family code would not be able to go to the referendum because it saved some unconstitutional article from same-sex partnerships. And here I agree that the Constitutional Court has found very well that such abuse is possible, thus preventing the constitutional right to referenda. Since we do not want such abuse to take place in our country, we do not want it to, and because we cannot count on the political correctness of the current government coalition, we cannot count on it, and this government coalition is obviously capable of all manipulations, such and other, as a result, we also follow the recommendation made by the Constitutional Judge, Dr. Cyril Ribičič, to resolve it by law, the Law of Referendum and the People's Initiative. In fact, this is the only way we can avoid or, I would say, relieve the legislator, as I said, of these temptations in order to resort to such drastic abuse of power and prohibit people from deciding on other issues that have nothing to do with the question of human rights or with unconstitutionality. Of course, the Government has rightly said here that this is a problem, unlike some of the Members we have heard, some of the parliamentary groups, that this is a problem and that this needs to be resolved. The government has also rightly pointed to two problems: the first is the problem, the danger of getting a legal void or the nonconsistency of the law if a single part of the referendum was rejected or an individual article and so on. Sure. However, we have a mechanism for internal coordination or final coordination in Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure. You're going to say no, then the law is already passed, it's already finished and it's going to the referendum. The 140th Article will have to be supplemented in any way, in the sense that even if either 40,000 signatures or a parliamentary group or the National Assembly proposed a referendum on an individual article, a separate part of the Act, in order to find out whether a legal void or any internal non-conformity at the time of the rejection of an individual article would arise on a proposal from the Legislative and Legal Service, which could be found in due time - without concern - in order to complete it in such a way that the referendum, at the same time if an individual article was rejected, would also be accepted as a harmonisation amendment to the whole of one referendum question. This must be resolved by the Rules of Procedure, and we are not talking about the Rules of Procedure. If you feel that this is not enough to resolve this, you can complete our proposal for an amendment to the article with an amendment that we have proposed ourselves to indicate such a solution and then simply set it further. The second point of the Government is that it is necessary to define, as it already says, that a meaningful materially rounded part of the law should be defined. This definition is already well defined in this Law on Referendum and Human Initiative in the case of a constitutional referendum. Well said, that article on the Constitutional Referendum clearly speaks of the possibility that the referendum can also be carried out on a part of the constitutional law, and it also mentions the same definition. You cannot say that that definition is insufficient, which is previously mentioned in some articles in the same law. However, if you believe that the same definition for the subsequent legislative referendum in this law needs to be repeated, let us amend, the article is open. And we say that there is a meaningful consideration of whether or not we transfer the same dictatorship to this open article, there is no problem. I would only ask, not to make such a valuable excuse as to reject our proposal. Not in such a valuable way! At least be so brave and say this: for this reason we will refuse to have a tool left in our hands that we will be able to abuse our power and ban people from collecting signatures to demand a referendum, or that, by any chance, 30 non-members of the coalition would propose a referendum. Say it straight! Or be so honest, those in the government who have prepared this and said that in principle you agree to develop your own thought and say that it is possible. Be honest and say, it is possible to do what is necessary in this law to follow the Constitutional Court and also allow a referendum on individual work, then it is in this law. Of course, there are other things that need to be settled, including elsewhere, even in the rules of procedure and so forth. But we are now under the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative. So I think, let's be so correct, let's give the green light to this law, and then - you have the majority, both in the working body and in the Parliament - you have the amendment. After all, you can still reject it. There is only a desire to avoid the brutal abuse of the rule of law, under the terms of "the rule of law".
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I've been reported on my own, but I'm holding a meeting and I can't discuss it. Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, on behalf of the Government, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! Three statements from Mr Cukjat require an explanation. First, I would like to give a serious answer to your thesis that it is obvious that the conduct of the current government and the majority in the direction that we want to continue to abuse our power in such a way that we do not allow or send to the Constitutional Court some questions that are not in conformity with the Constitution. Indisputably, the honourable assembly that adopts laws is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on several occasions when it adopts regulations, warned that one of the solutions that is offered as an estimate of the majority of parliaments as good is inconsistent with the Constitution. And many times such a solution, incompatible with the Constitution, is incorporated into the law. In this period alone, I believe that the rules in the area of both court salaries, salaries, salaries of others, the anti-corruption commission, I believe that eight decisions in the National Assembly are unconstitutionally taken before me - according to the judgement of the Constitutional Court. So this is one question - the care of this assembly when it takes decisions, that of course they are constitutionally consistent. And if you eliminate such constitutional non-compliance in the next regulation and you solve some other pressing social issues, there will be a situation, Mr Cukjat, to which you rightly point out that the Constitutional Court is then in this package due to the fact that a small fraction solves and eliminates the anti-constitutional situation, social issues are resolved in the rest of the world, and it is impossible for people to decide at the referendum. It does not hold that we have not given an answer, at least the Government, to the point that the question you have opened is absolutely relevant, but it does not hold that we do not want to approach it. I am the solution, as I believe, and who I believe is that body that will prepare a comprehensive solution and invite you to cooperate. This is an extremely difficult professional question. You have already very nicely linked the story of what all the changes required by such a regime, i.e. a different regime; not only a change in the law on the referendum, but also a change in the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Here you know what the majority of the necessary to change the rules of procedure is, and if we do not combine the will for such a change here, the change you are offering today will not be able to live, but we cannot allow this to happen by accident because your professionally less crafty decision-making process would allow us to decide on some part of the law, cause this to possibly be adopted at the referendum, the law without this round whole would remain unconsensual, therefore inconsistent, non-executive. However, Parliament would not have any mechanism to bring about the law that was passed in this Parliament to live. If we are responsible, we simply cannot allow such inadequacy to be allowed, because on the one hand we would take the role that Parliament has on the basis of the Constitution and the law and the rules of procedure, where people would be given the opportunity to decide on their work and then people would succeed, and Parliament would remain at a point where the law could not work because of nonconsistency, that I am trying to explain this dilemma in a lazi way. So that I, Mr Cukjat, seriously invite you without a fig in my pocket, the working group from the beginning of the work on electoral legislation, to amend the law on referendum, to amend the law on elections, to work, there are all the experts who are dealing with such issues with us. I would, if we were to agree, also in the introductions when we began your work, you would pass on the names of your members. Tell me who would be involved in this, within two months I would ask a narrower part of this expert team to prepare a consistent, professional solution to the solution you are offering today, both for the rules of procedure, for this part, which you then discuss and also invest in Parliament. This is not a prestigious question of who will be the proposer, who will simply make this change. However, it is so demanding and it interferes with the work of two extremely important institutes, the people's decisions and the decisions of Parliament, and it must be professionally examined, if you want, to the last limb and to the last point. When you put forward this proposal with positive and proactive support for this solution, we have approached the drafting of an opinion. My personal desire was to find so much, I will say, the appropriateness in this proposed arrangement that I could then supplement this with amendments, as you suggested, in the second reading, and I regret the professional services at all levels, in fact, that it is better to approach it in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner and prepare an appropriate solution. Thus, the purposes for resolving this issue, which is pointed out not least by the Constitutional Court, which you have expressed through this proposed amendment, are accepted. If you agree with the proposal that we should sit down with an expert who, of course, is their primary work every day, in a short time prepare a change and then, as you suggest, align with the coalition partners, submit a coordinated proposal with the Government. So I invite you to work to draw up a truly comprehensive, consistent proposal, because we are assessing, as the Government has adopted this opinion and you have been aware of it, that you have drawn attention to the relevant issue and that it is right for us to resolve it professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you for the words you have spoken, which, I must say, are more positive than your coalition parliamentary groups. But I must say that I do not know what this has to do with electoral law, and I do not know this group that will deal with the issue of elections, the electoral system. The referendum has its legality, its rules and is independent of electoral problems, except in field techniques. The other thing is. Even the rules of procedure, I don't know if the change of rules, the additions, the government is going to be preparing, I also think it's going to be strange, this is going to be a matter of the National Assembly. That is why I have mentioned, Madam Minister, the possibility that if you do not trust that the National Assembly will bring its Rules of Procedure into line with the requirements that will arise when this amendment of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative is amended, this is to say that it foresees a situation of legal vacuum or internal non-compliance with possible rejection at the referendum of an individual article. If you do not believe that the Rules of Procedure will have to regulate this National Assembly, we have already proposed this at the starting point here, and let us also impose it in law on the National Assembly, and then the Rules of Procedure, as in other legislation, where the Rules of Procedure must follow the requirements imposed by the Constitution or other laws on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure must follow this; but how the National Assembly defines the individual performance of this task, is a matter of the National Assembly. This we know how the Rules of Procedure of course take some time to amend the Rules of Procedure, to find a two-thirds majority and so on. [[...]] But if the law imposed this on the National Assembly, sooner or later, the National Assembly would find such a solution in the exercise itself and in the performance of the task it would have entrusted to it if it had been adopted. So I don't see any big, insurmountable obstacles here so that our bill doesn't go forward. We would complement it with your suggestions and also instruct the National Assembly to resolve it by supplementing Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure or by Article 140a.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u201	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Sugar, of course, the Government cannot propose changes to the Rules of Procedure, which is the problem. Therefore, you must direct your efforts to amend the Rules of Procedure to achieve a two-thirds majority between fellow Members and fellow Members, both coalitions and opposition, because it is a necessary majority. This is the responsibility of all the candidates, including me, in electoral legislation, where no change can be made without your votes. I say, however, that until such a consensus is reached that such a majority will change the rules of procedure, it is also impossible to achieve the change you have proposed, because we can cause an important defective situation. I speak of this: the matter must be coordinated and requires the coordinated functioning of Members and Members, both coalitions and the opposition, due to the need for a majority in amending the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, there is also a need for professional assistance in preparing a solution to the current regulation, because it must be clear what is rounded up in order for the initiator not to be bullied because these criteria for assessing this fact will not be written in law. You've proposed a good solution, you can see that, it's on the horizon, but let the profession come up with it so that we can define ourselves. Those were the concerns. In this group, there are all constitutional experts who normally comment and ask for their help on such rules as they touch on referendum issues. That is why I thought that this group, which is in the field of electoral legislation and legislation in the field of electoral campaign in fact in the end of its work, was the appropriate body - not the whole body, as we would agree - to carry out an expert review of these issues or to provide us with professional assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The text, on behalf of the applicants, is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u204	In view of the fact that the end of this point is near, let me first highlight a few things in the introduction. When it comes to a matter requiring a two-thirds majority, the debate should be as calm and as reasoned as possible. Unfortunately, I must say that we have again faced the apriorous rejection of the part of the coalition, not the whole, and frankly it does not surprise me. It's the same story that's been going on since the beginning of this term, and I can honestly say I'm sorry. That's one of the key reasons we're where we are. But in a given case, there was something that specifically stabbed me in the eye. This was a major euphoria, in particular, by one of the discussers from the types of government parties in this rejection, which went far beyond the argumented debate. And I wonder where that euphoria came from. If it is conditional on yesterday's vote, then I ask you to write down the following words: regardless of the outcome of yesterday's vote, yesterday's long campaign of Katarina Kresal and all those who supported it began with power. Therefore, be aware when we consider the question of the referendum, that it should also be illuminated from your two-point angle, from one that you think is up to date, how it works when you are in power, and from another that will be up to you in two years at the latest. How will you implement it when you are in opposition? Therefore, the debate and arguments would be calmed down on the ground. And something else was very noticeable in much of this debate. The great dissonance between the relatively peaceful, reasoned, appropriate level of debate of the Minister and the vehemenity of some of the debaters of the coalition in Parliament. This may in some ways open up the story that we have already discussed many times, the question of how to reconsider in Slovenia the question of the majority electoral system, when ideology, including the party ideology, would withdraw into the background and put the quality of people, one and the other at the forefront. I think it would be very good for Slovenia. This dissonance I've been talking about convinces me that the moment is right. Now to the very matter we're talking about today. The fact is that a large number of constitutional lawyers have pointed out this problem, that the right to a referendum, which is a constitutional right, is not limited to articles 2 and 90, as we have simplified. Surely this intention of the founder could also be understood by the article which gives the right, as a human right, to all citizens and citizens, to participate directly in the management of state affairs. And in some other points, we could find elements to argue that the right to a referendum in the Slovenian constitutional order is a very important right. These were constitutional lawyers from different value angles, different beliefs. I would also point out that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has only pointed out that the Constitutional Court is also aware of these traps, when it is repeatedly forced to consider a law in which more than 100 articles can be made in decimal places, and perhaps one article is such that it can be disputed with respect to the protection of human rights and is therefore the Constitutional Court before the decision on the weighting of constitutional rights, which it will give priority to. Regrettably, once again, there has been a practice in which this limitation of the right to a referendum has been dramatically extended and virtually all referendums are prohibited. It would be interesting to see this practice being the same if the picture of the coalition and the opposition in Parliament were reversed. But let's just wait for those two years that keep us apart until then. Until then, it should be noted that, when the Constitutional Court does not restrict itself in this part, it does not exercise this right very restrictively, only when an extreme case in the law is in some way the democraticity of the whole regime is distorted. In some ways, democratic standards have been reduced, which have been set very high in the current Slovenian Constitution, and this has not been a coincidence, since we all know who was involved in its creation and what experience it had. To be able to unlock this trap in order to avoid these problems, the law on referendum and human initiative should be amended. This law before you is certainly the proper basis, for it is only the first consideration. Until the second reading, if political will were to do so, and the only question of political will, perhaps also, is, unfortunately, some ideological planning that is superfluous, is what separates us from a simple solution - to sit together and find appropriate solutions on the working bodies of the National Assembly to change the law itself, and also the related changes to the rules of procedure, which we all agree on, for sure, are also necessary. The question is, what's the first? We believe it's the first law. For the regulation of the Rules of Procedure is that which builds up the law and divides the procedure within the Assembly itself. The law, as proposed, summarizes only the solution already presented in that part of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which applies to constitutional regulation, for a constitutional referendum. There are some dilemmas that have now been exposed as open, as extremely important, without trying to say that these dilemmas cannot be started, but have already been resolved. The answers to these questions are already contained in the very text of the law, which was adopted virtually unanimously when the Law on the Referendum and Human Initiative was last amended in the last term. That's why this kind of scheming is superfluous. These are solutions that are largely defined, which are already part of the constitutional order, the legal, legal order that is currently in force in this country. Therefore, starting these dilemmas, as if they had never been talked about before, makes no sense. It is only a matter of finding a technically appropriate text, which is then adopted with sufficient consent. In the text of the law we answer everything that has been asked here. It's defined what is the notion of a circled whole. In some ways, this is already answered in the existing text. In addition, it can be understood from the text of law and explanation, of course there are no such dilemmas or contradictions as has been said. I just understand that those who wanted to reject this law in advance had to write something, but I would like those things to be written down to be more reasoned. As far as these proposals are concerned, to form another text somewhere else, perhaps. However, I am not sure if this is the best way, because then the question is whether it would not be more appropriate to seek answers, a common solution within the framework of the working bodies of the National Assembly, with the proper cooperation of government representatives and all others. This would probably be more normal in some way if the rules of procedure were to be amended at the same time. And the easiest way to get to this point is to confirm today at the first stage as the starting point for the text of the law before us. It can certainly be improved. Any marriage can be improved. There is no perfect law at all, not in this case, not in any other case. Any marriage can be improved with sufficient effort, with sufficient time, with sufficient will. And that's really what this is about: whether it's good enough will to find a common denominator or not. The National Assembly has proved its maturity many times and has sought an appropriate level of consensus. Also, on matters that may have seemed more controversial at the first moment, which have sparked the sparks between individual policies, among individual representatives, among individual figures in Parliament, he has demonstrated maturity and achieved a two-thirds majority for certain constitutional changes, for some solutions in referendum legislation, for some of the solutions in electoral legislation. Of course, I am talking mainly about those solutions that have been adopted with a truly highest degree of consensus, not by voting, as has, unfortunately, also happened several times. The law in this text is therefore the appropriate basis for further consideration and would allow this procedure to be accelerated. Those who may have heeded the warning, no one in the SDS is certainly thinking at this time about some final solutions, about the vote, about changing the constitutional position of the Constitutional Court, unless this dilemma is resolved first. And it is likely that there will be another issue that will need to be resolved in these procedures. This is about the functioning of a system as a whole, in which it is not good to intervene just as it is, because there is a constitutional court, which everyone sees as the last solution to their problems, to protect human rights, to protect their fundamental human rights when it comes to individual cases, which is the quality of the Slovenian Constitution, I am firmly convinced, and some of you are asking whether, when it comes to the issue of all citizens and citizens and their human rights, which is decided in a particular procedure. And once again, I would warn you, the right to a referendum is a constitutional right. And in view of some of the articles of the Constitution I mentioned earlier, I firmly believe that it was the intention of the founder to define it even as a human right in the broader meaning of that word. Therefore, I propose that we do not run from the responsibility that lies ahead of us and is imposed on us by our constitutional position, by the Members who regulate the situation of Members and by our responsibility to the general public, because it is, in fact, for the people, their rights, for their quality of life. And to do what we can today, when we consider this matter, is to gather enough power in this House to achieve 2/3 of the majority to confirm this text as a starting point, as appropriate for further consideration, and then sit together within the working bodies of the National Assembly and find those concrete solutions, technical solutions for which it will be possible for each individual and for all to achieve an appropriate 2/3 level of consensus of all Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u205	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see a wish. That's why I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the basis of the proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the annual plan for the disposal of non-removable assets of the State in an individual value of more than EUR 300,000 for State administrations and for judicial authorities for the year 2010. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Minister, Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The existing decree, which has already been approved by the Consulate of the State, on an annual plan for the availability of state immovable property worth more than EUR 300,000 to the authorities of the State of Administration and to the judicial authorities for 2010, already contains 52 properties worth more than EUR 43 million in total. As a rule, this changes according to the forecasts of individual real estate managers once or twice a year. The government is 11. 3. 2010 on a proposal from individual operators of immovable property, this decree has been approved and is proposed to you for admission. It is incontrovertible, even on the Committee, when we have a lengthy discussion, we may conclude that this decree includes individual operators of that immovable property or parcels, spaces which they do not permanently need for their work. They shall first be placed on the internal market of immovable property for 30 days at least, otherwise they shall not be able to land in the decree of this property. Here individual other budgetary users carefully check whether the premises that one user no longer needs are needed by another national user. If no one comes forward, does not express the need, then this unnecessary property for the individual user lands in a decision and will be the subject of a disposal that is not necessarily only for sale, it may also be for replacements, free removals. In the event of public interest being detected, the user may, in the case of regional joint projects at local level, also transfer the property to free use for precisely these public purposes in the use of the local community, i.e. free disposal of the property. The questions that we have dealt with on the Committee I think have been answered with relevance. The value of the real estate in this Decision, on the basis of the applicable rules governing the text of the decree, is sufficient for operators to give an artistic value of each property where they do not have an official judicial valuation. It is also undeniable that when a particular programme, such as the sale of a parcel, starts, they must obtain an opinion from a sworn appreciater who must not be more than six months of age, in the event that the property is worth more than 300,000 euros, individually, a mandatory review of such valuation, Two, four eyes look at the correctness of not selling each property at a price that everyone owes to pursue, i.e. the best purchase for the existing property value. There are 23 real estates assessed by budget users in this decree, and they are different that they do not permanently need them for their work. Since honourable Members and Members of the Committee wanted very precise explanations as to why someone wants to alienate or dispose of property and whether they already have assessments, we have drawn up, received from all ministries, collected, and forwarded these answers to the members of the Committee. I hope that this has also been a satisfactory response to the dilemmas that have emerged on the Committee. I propose that this decree be confirmed in this content, but it is not necessary when the property is in the decree that it will also be available in the current year. [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] It's a success. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Minister Krebs. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the document at its 17th session, on 8 April 2010, the proposed Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee had before it the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. Ms Tržanova, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, explained that the decree already contains 52 properties worth €43 million. The draft decree complements it with 23 properties with a total indicative value of EUR 15 million 942 000, while at the same time it provides for the deletion of 11 properties totalling EUR 8 million 814 thousand. Thus, the new decree contains 64 real estates of a total value of EUR 50 million 455 thousand. Ms Horvat-Pirnatov, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said in her presentation of their written opinion that the legislative and legal services had no comments in terms of their compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal system and with legislative and technical aspects. The Commission of the State Council also gave a positive opinion. Members and members of the committee highlighted a number of things in the debate. They were so interested in what is happening to the holiday capacities of the Ministry of Justice, what is happening with the children's clinic in Ljubljana and other facilities such as the premises of the Ministry of Interior on Jeranov Street in Ljubljana. The representatives of the proposer, Mrs Pavlinič Krebsova, Minister of Public Administration and Secretary of State replied to questions. However, the answers were mostly the same as we used to in these cases. The Ministry of Public Administration is only the body that collects these matters for specific procedures and individual ministries are responsible for specific numbers. The Committee on Internal Policy and Public Administration adopted a number of conclusions, namely the first decision: the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice calls on the Ministry of Public Administration to prepare supplementary information for the consideration of the proposal for a decree at the meeting of the National Assembly, which will show the reasons for the inclusion of individual real estate in this list. Secondly, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice calls on the Ministry of Public Administration to forward written answers to the questions raised in the debate before the proposal for a decree at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice. In particular, it was two properties on Jeranova Street in Ljubljana, a holiday home in Rab and Croatia and a children's hospital in Ljubljana. Third decision: The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice calls on the competent government services to examine whether all legal instruments and procedures have been used in the exchange of the facility which was the subject of the trade contract on Trubarje Street 2 in Ljubljana and used by the Institute for Health Protection. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, the Committee adopted the proposed articles of the decree below. Finally, the Committee decided that the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the 2010 Regulation on the annual establishment plan for immovable property of the State should be adopted in a single amount of more than EUR 300,000 for the administration of the State and for the judicial authorities in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the LDS Embassy Club, Mr Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support amendments and additions to the Decree on the Annual Plan for the Real Estate of the State worth more than EUR 300,000 for State administrations and judicial authorities for 2010. This is about directing additional real estate to the decree, which none of the real estate managers permanently need to carry out their duties. Therefore, there is no need for real estate to be held and it is therefore appropriate to sell under market conditions. These are real estates comprising 15 plots in the management of various ministries, clinical centres and other entities, 2 business premises, 4 apartments and 2 other facilities. As shown in the proposal for a decree, it was found that their economic and efficient use could not be ensured either by renting or by other means of exploitation and that the optimum effects could only be achieved by selling them on the market. The value of these properties is approximately €16 million. In this respect, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we particularly note that all sales must be made in a transparent, transparent and responsible manner. The assets must be assessed and sold on market terms to the best bidder. Since we have already witnessed a variety of manipulations in the past, it seems important for the Government to ensure that sales procedures are carried out in a predictable, useful and efficient manner. Furthermore, the amendments to the decree also refer to the identification of certain properties intended for sale, namely four plots in the management of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana and seven plots in the management of the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana. These lines follow the proposal of the Ministry of Health, which decided that these properties should be used carefully. In view of the above, we will support amendments and additions to the decree at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly adopted a decree on the annual plan for the management of the country's immovable property at an individual value of more than EUR 300,000 for the public administrations and for the judicial authorities for 2010 at its 11th regular meeting. With the novel that we are considering today, the new decree includes 23 real estates, whose indicative value, as we have already heard, is somewhat less than €16 million. It removes 11 properties managed by the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana and the Psychiatric Clinic. In the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, individual properties were exposed to debate. It was also pointed out that the indicative values in the draft decree did not reflect their market values. Representatives of the Government, the Minister and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration have tried to respond to the warnings and have also shown their willingness to provide us with additional information and more detailed information by today's hearing at the Ministry. Although we have received these, it is likely that not everyone will or will not be satisfied with the material provided. Nevertheless, we will support the proposed amendment of the decree by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, but we want the Government to take into account in future decisions also the warnings by Members and Members that individual facilities, land, housing should be equipped with those relevant data that will clearly indicate what facilities they are, where they are, and more appropriate explanations should be prepared. We also support the Government's intention on the concept of centralisation of real estate management. Members and Members, we want this concept of the Government to bring to life as soon as possible in order to address the identified shortcomings of the current system, so that these changes can be seen in the 2011 decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u214	Good-bye. At the meeting, when we discussed the decree on the annual real estate plan of the country, we found a number of things together. Some have already found the minister herself before that, that is, that the state does not know what it has or the ministries do not know what all those facilities they have to worry about are. In the central real estate record, in which officials are supposed to enter all those properties owned by the State, only these are not registered, although we know that the State owns 603.331 plots, which 224,000 are not registered. In 2007, only 12% of the property was registered after the analysis. That's probably why the question is why these things didn't happen and they did what they were supposed to do. Therefore, it may also be understood that the Ministry is proposing to establish a public fund for the management of property owned by the State. Some of the steps have already been taken in the previous mandate, mainly in terms of the internal market, i.e. the internal real estate market, when the ministries discussed each other whether anyone would take any facility that one ministry might not need and the other would need. In any case, these things must be continued. In view of the fact that it is foretold at 1 Peter 1: 1. In 2011, it may seem more reasonable for us to wait and not take this year's decision to re-emerg on the situation we witnessed last year or a few months ago when we were all dealing with children's hospitals and other facilities owned by the University Clinical Centre or the Ministry of Health, when the media informed us that we did not know what we were taking and what we were deciding, because we also decided that these hospitals could be sold. So it's really a little questionable, because then the Ministry of Health or the Public University Clinical Center found out that it might still need these facilities. You could say that when it was time for this to happen, they didn't think it through. In order for these things to not happen to us in the future, we also requested more accurate information this year, and also why they were included in the decree, what is the reason why the ministries do not need them anymore, or are willing to resign or sell them. We have now received this more detailed information from the Ministry, but there are still quite some open dilemmas, estimated values that have proved to be undervalued. Although the minister said that at the final stage we could sell the matter more expensively, the practice showed that it was rarely more expensive or never more expensive, but at the price that was estimated, which is usually not real or, as is said, underestimated at some point. This is why a number of questions have been addressed to the Ministry, not only from the opposition but also from the coalition. Therefore, we think that we should think a little bit more about it and think more about it, take advantage of all the options that I have already mentioned - the internal market, what is needed and what is not. For example, the Ministry of the Interior is giving up the single house in Jeranov 14 in high value, and it is probably reasonable to consider whether certain things can be restored and maintained if the owner is a state, rather than giving enormous funds for rents somewhere, and on the other hand, we are owners of properties that we cannot manage and do not know what to do with them. We will not oppose the ruling in our parliamentary group, but we will probably vote differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an annual management plan with the country's immovable property for the authorities of the State administration and the judicial authorities of a single value of more than EUR 300,000. Thus, the government accepts the annual real estate management plan below EUR 300,000 and sends it to the National Assembly for information only, when it comes to individual values of more than EUR 300,000, it adopts an annual plan for the National Assembly. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the decree shall be prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration on the basis of proposals from the ministries. The draft decree includes those property owned by the Republic of Slovenia that none of the real estate managers of the State permanently needs to carry out their duties and that individual operators have concluded that their economic use cannot be secured either by renting or by other means of their exploitation and that the optimum effects of real estate management can be achieved solely through their sale on the market or through the free transfer of property rights in accordance with the law. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support this motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. The proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the 2010 Decision on the annual management plan for immovable property of the State, amounting to more than EUR 300,000 per annum, has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of Article 11(2) of the Real Estate Act. The decision on the real estate of the State to the authorities of the State and the judicial authorities of more than EUR 300,000 was adopted in November 2009. This addition is necessary as a result of proposals made by sectoral ministries, namely 23 real estates with an indicative value of €15 million. In the country's real estate management programme of more than EUR 300,000 per year, there are 64 real estates, with an indicative value of more than EUR 50 million. It is clear that these real estate operators do not need to do so for their own activities, so they may be resold, rescheduled or released free of charge. This addition to the amendment decision was addressed by both the Council of State and the Legal and Legislative Service, which agree with the proposed content and have no reservations. Of course, despite the well-prepared annual plan to find certain properties in which the indicative value is undervalued and estimated value would be significantly higher, and the disposal of certain properties is insufficiently justified, so it is difficult to decide whether everything is so necessary and necessary to be sold even below the price and, on the other hand, we are paying expensive rents. Example: Building for special purposes with an indicative value of EUR 1.7 million. A building with a total of 1,800 square metres of residential space. It is quite clear that only the valuation value is final and that the decision takes into account those properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia which none of the operators permanently need to carry out their duties. But if that's true, it's in the judgment of the people who make the final decision. We must avoid knowing that we are paying expensive rents, such as the NPU building, on the one hand, and on the other hand we are selling a building that might fit and be suitable for such a service. As we know, the building is sold at the same price as the rental for the premises used by the NPU. This does not convince us in the Slovenian National Party of good governance with real estate and budgetary resources. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the property that the operator does not need must be sold off because they have concluded that their economic use cannot be provided more, but the content of the justification for the disposal must be more clearly recorded. From all the above, we have decided in the Slovenian National Party that we will not oppose the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendment was adopted by the parent working body to the proposal for a decree. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Proposal for a Decision establishing a Security Council around the Republic of Slovenia. The draft decree was tabled by the Committee on Environment and Space for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, the president of the Committee on Environment and Space, Bredi Pecan, for a further explanation of the motion for a decree. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to all present! At its 15th regular session on 23 March, the Committee on the Environment and Space adopted the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Environment Council of the Republic of Slovenia. This was possible because last year we adopted amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, where among others, after our assessment as a major amendment, we also adopted an amendment to Article 150 of this Act, which essentially interrupted the practice that the Council for Environmental Protection, which was established in 1993 by the then Environmental Protection Act, did not provide for the duration of the mandate of the Environmental Protection Council, and the Act of Amendment also stipulates that the Council of State shall establish the Council and, later, in accordance with the procedure set out in the decree, shall appoint the members of the Environmental Protection Council. It is important that the Council of 15 members or members appointed by the National Assembly for a period of five years consists of proposing for 12 members the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and the universities of experts and experts in the field of environmental protection, which must be represented by approximately equal distribution of the representation of natural, technical, biotechnical, social, humanitarian and medical know-how. The remaining three members of the Council are representatives of NGOs. This is an important step forward in the fact that the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act 1 have made it possible for the Ministry of Environment and Space to simplify the process of identifying organisations operating in the field of environmental protection, societies and other organisations operating in this field that act in the public interest. Before that, a number of administrative tasks were needed, including a review of the organisation's operations. Now this has been significantly simplified. The Ministry of Environment and Space has already informed us in February, of course, that it has already issued several decisions in recent months on the granting of the status of a non-governmental organisation, and so it is possible to obtain the appointment of three members of the Council for the Protection of the Environment from these NGOs. Following the adoption of the decision and the application, which is the day following the publication of the Official Journal, our Commission of the European Parliament will call on all those affected 14 days later, if we can thus say that they are proposing their representatives to the Council of Environmental Protection and will later be able to invite the Council of Environmental Protection, which is an independent, independent, non-governmental organisation at the State Assembly. This will be financed from the National Assembly as of 1 January 2011, and this year it will operate in line with the current budget and will be financed by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word has magic. Mr Zoran Kus, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear High Council! The Government welcomes the proposal for a decision establishing a Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, as Mrs Pečanova has already said, was established by a decree establishing and appointing a Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia in 1993 on the basis of the Act on Environmental Protection. To date, this Council for the Protection of the Environment has been operating practically in an unaltered composition, with the exception of a few changes, changes in members. As Mrs Pečanova has already said, under article 150 of the Environmental Protection Act, the Environmental Protection Council consists of 15 members and members appointed by the National Assembly for a period of five years, with the possibility of reappointment. 12 members of the Council are environmental experts proposed by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and universities, and three are representatives of NGOs, namely those who apply for the status of a non-governmental organisation or a society acting in the public interest in the field of environmental protection in accordance with Article 153 of the Environmental Protection Act. As has already been said, the Ministry of Environment and Space last year and this year have made an additional effort to grant status to some non-governmental organisations, i.e. the status of NGOs acting in the interest of environmental protection, so that, in fact, the conditions are now met for the State Assembly, based on its 150th Article, to initiate a process to establish and appoint a Council in a new composition and to appoint three civil society representatives to the Council, who have not been, in fact, in the world of environmental protection. In accordance with the above, the Government supports the adoption of the Decision establishing the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. The Group of Social Democrats will, of course, support the decision, as it will indeed have a perfect world for environmental protection, including representatives of non-governmental organisations, who in our country certainly play an important role also in achieving the objectives in the field, not only of environmental protection in general, but in particular in meeting all the agreements we have reached at international level, in particular in the field of climate change. Therefore, the Group of Members will fully support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, nice greeting to everyone. The Environmental Protection Act of Article 150, paragraph 1, provides that the State Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia shall be established to monitor the state of environmental protection. The third paragraph of this Article provides for a more detailed composition and organisation of the functioning of the Council to be determined by the National Assembly in the act establishing it. The Council shall have 15 members or members appointed by the National Assembly for a period of five years with the possibility of reappointment. 12 members of the Council are environmental experts and experts proposed jointly by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and universities, ensuring the equal representation of natural, technical, biotechnical, social, humanitarian and medical sciences. The remaining three members of the Council shall be representatives of non-governmental organisations in the field of environmental protection proposed by non-governmental organisations referred to in Article 153(1) of the Environmental Protection Act. In February 2010, the Minister of Environment and Space informed the President of the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 153 of the Environmental Protection Act in recent months, he had issued several decisions on granting the status of a non-governmental organisation operating in the field of environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia in the public interest. Pursuant to Article 154 of the Law on Environmental Protection and the Rules on the Management of the Register of NGOs, with the status of public interest in the field of environmental protection, the Ministry of Environment and Space has also established a register which is publicly available on the Ministry's website. By granting the status of NGOs to act in the field of environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia in the public interest, the conditions are now laid down for the National Assembly to begin the process of establishing and appointing the Council into a new composition. With the latest amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act in December 2009, an amendment to Article 150, paragraph 5, was adopted which provides that funds for the functioning of the Council under its financial plan shall be provided from the budget of the State under the resources of the National Assembly, by applying this provision to the preparation of the State budget for 2011. Until the application of this provision, the funds for the functioning of the Council under Article 150, paragraph 5, of the Environmental Protection Act shall be provided from the State budget under the resources of the Ministry responsible for the protection of the environment. The proposed Decision establishing the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia thus establishes the Council in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and specifies its composition and organisation and the duration of the mandate of its members. Article 4 of the Decree states that the appointment of members of the Council shall lead the working body of the National Assembly responsible for elections and appointments. The working body shall draw up a proposal for a decision appointing the members of the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia and forward it to the National Assembly for a decision. The first meeting of the newly established Council shall be convened by the President of the Council established under the Environmental Protection Act 1993. The proposal for a decree establishing a Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia will be supported by the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u228	Thank you. Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, Representative of the Government! Let me begin with Mr. Toman, professor of ecology at the University of Biotechnical Ljubljana. It says that Slovenia remained in the field of environmental protection in the prehistoric era. That we skipped part of the development and jumped from an environmentally friendly stage to a consumer society. In terms of understanding the environment, we jumped from the Stone Age to new capitalism. Today, in this new time, we are facing an educational and social system that has not raised the responsibility of an individual to the environment. We're not really aware that we're an integral part of the environment. The established Environmental Protection Council is professionally fast at the highest level. In particular, we consider it important that non-governmental organisations in the field of environmental protection be included in the world. These are groups that, within this complex and sensitive area, solve specific problems and are linked by global thinking and local experience. Problems, questions, strategies, practices are extensive. The decree is brief and clear. That's a lot of good. And it is good that this congregation responds in a direct, serious and responsible manner to all the challenges that appear to have no limitations. Let us remind ourselves of the threat posed by the volcanic cloud, which in addition to the purely bourgeois problems has touched capital interests, and of the action Let us clear Slovenia in one day and, last but not least, the recent outstanding presentation of the importance and role of wood produced jointly by the three Committees of the National Assembly. The world's work won't be missed, that's for sure. In the Emissary Group, we really hope that he will not be running out of time, for then he will be running out of time for all. The motion for a decree has our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This proposal for the implementation of the Law on Environmental Protection provides that the National Assembly shall establish and establish a more detailed composition of the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia to monitor the state of environmental protection. It is envisaged that the Council of 12 members from different institutions, those also dealing with environmental protection, and the remaining three members propose NGOs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the world is an important body because it adopts opinions, gives opinions and initiatives and informs the public about the state and trends in environmental protection and sustainable development at home and abroad, on strategies, programmes and plans for environmental protection and sustainable development, on legislative regulation, on the functioning of the country and communities in the field of environmental protection, on individual pressing issues of environmental burden and sustainable development and so on. Therefore, all conditions are laid down for the National Assembly to begin the procedure for the establishment and appointment of the world in a new composition, which is why we agree with this in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State! Environmental policy is becoming an increasingly important part of both economic and development policies or strategies. It has been a long time not only for the protection of the environment, but also for the management of natural goods and values, with responsibilities for conditions that enable a healthy life for people. In doing so, the Environment Protection Council, which we are setting up today with the decision under consideration, plays a very important role. The Environmental Protection Council has already been established under the Environmental Protection Act 1993 and still operates in almost the same composition, as the length of the mandate of Council members has not been limited so far. The Environmental Protection Act, as the umbrella law in the field of environmental issues, requires the National Assembly to establish a Council for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, which will monitor the accompanying environmental protection situation. The decision in question establishes a new Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia and specifies its composition and organisation of operations and the duration of the mandate of its members. It should be pointed out that the world is independent and independent in its work and its work is public. However, it must report on its work once a year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The decree provides that the Council of 15 members appointed by the National Assembly for a period of five years shall have the possibility of reappointment. 12 members of the Council are environmental experts and are proposed by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and University. In proposing candidates for members of the Council, the same representation of natural, technical, biotechnical, social, humanistic and medical sciences must be ensured. The three members of the Council are representatives of NGOs in the field of environmental protection. They are proposed by NGOs. The decree provides that the official or staff member of the public authorities or bodies of the municipalities may not be a member of the Council. Such a redesign ensures the plurality of the applicants, which will enable the selection of the highest quality staff. The procedure for appointing members of the Council shall be guided by the working body of the National Assembly responsible for the election and appointment, which shall also, on the basis of the proposals submitted by the candidates, draw up a proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Council and forward it to the decision of the State Assembly which shall have the final say in this regard. Environmental protection is an activity to protect and preserve nature from overexploitation, pollution and other ways of human activity. According to the Slovenian National Party Group, we would like to see the operation of the newly established Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia effectively and responsibly, so we will also support the proposal for a decision establishing the Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome, especially the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Environmental Protection Act provides for the establishment of a Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia to monitor the state of the environment. However, a more detailed composition and organisation of the functioning of the world must be determined by a decision establishing the National Assembly. The Council shall have 15 members appointed by the National Assembly for a period of five years under the Environmental Protection Act with the possibility of reappointment. 20 members of the Council are environmental experts and experts proposed jointly by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and Universities, ensuring the equal representation of natural, technical, biotechnical, natural, humanitarian and medical sciences. The remaining three members of the Council are representatives of NGOs in the field of environmental protection proposed by NGOs working in the field of environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia in the public interest. By granting the status of NGOs to act in the field of environmental protection in the Republic of Slovenia in the public interest, the conditions are now laid down for the National Assembly to begin the process of establishing a world in a new composition. The proposed Decision establishing the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia thus establishes the Council in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and specifies its composition and organisation and the duration of the terms of office of its members. Pursuant to Article 4 of the decree, the appointment of members of the Council will lead the working body of the National Assembly responsible for elections and appointments, which will, on the basis of a proposal from candidates to be forwarded by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and Universities and the proposals proposed by non-governmental organisations in the field of environmental protection, draw up a proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia and forward it to the National Assembly. With recent amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, it has also been stipulated that new funds for the functioning of the Council, based on its financial plan, will be provided from the State budget within the framework of the National Assembly and not more from the State budget under the resources of the Ministry responsible for the protection of the environment. This provision will apply to the preparation of the 2011 State Budget. We welcome this solution because it also strengthens the autonomy and autonomy of the world against executive power. Since we do not care about what is happening to our environment in the LDS Club, and as last Saturday has shown a great all-Slovenian cleaning action, we share this concern with many citizens and citizens, and because we also believe that this world can be an effective tool for building the quality of our attitude towards the environment, we will support that decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled for the motion for a decree. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence of the summer plan for development and renewal of motorways for 2010 The annual plan was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the annual plan to Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The total value of the 2010 annual development and renewal plan is €501 million. A total of €340 million has been allocated for the development and renewal of motorways. This year, a total of 16.3 km of road sections or 14.8 km of four - lane highways and 1.5 km of connecting roads will be dedicated in line with this annual traffic plan. In addition, in 2010, construction will continue to a total of 19.4 km of road sections, which is 2.4 reconstructions per 5.2 km of fast road 10.4 km of two - lane road, 1.4 km of connecting road, and on a gas station for Cikava. Further construction will take place on the following sections: Peračica, Podtabor - Šentvid - Koseze, second phase of connection to the Cyprus port, Koper - Izola and Gorišnica - Ormož and construction of platforms of the previously mentioned petrol service. The value of works on sections and subsections that will be dedicated to or will continue to be built in 2010 amounts to € 140 million. The value of completed works on sections already dedicated to transport in previous years is €60 million. In 2010, the construction of some state-owned connecting roads will continue, allowing better integration of wider urban areas into the motorway network. The value of works on connecting roads is 12.7 million euros. This year, the preparation of projects and other documentation and the purchase of land and other properties will take place on those sections and subsections that will start building after 2010. The value of the documentation works amounts to EUR 10 million and the value of purchases of land and other real estates is slightly more than EUR 7 million. To restore and invest in existing motorways, funds of €40.6 million are foreseen for construction works of €15 million for electrical and mechanical works. The estimated costs for the introduction of an electronic tolling system in free circulation amount to one million and a half. An amount of EUR 9.9 million is foreseen for the implementation of the traffic control and management system. The funding costs to be paid in 2010 are estimated at €3.4 million. Investment credit liabilities will amount to 157 million, of which 95 million for regular interest payments and 61 for principal repayments. In 2010, resources of 501 million are foreseen. Provision is made for 106 million from the Cohesion Fund and 40.5 million from VAT. Credits are expected to be drawn at a total value of 185 million. Of this, 115 will be drawn up after credit agreements have already been concluded and 70 new loans are foreseen. Other resources are foreseen at €2.6 million. Part of the toll and other revenue shall provide EUR 160 million of concession fee to finance obligations relating to the construction and renewal of motorways and the repayment of loans hired for this purpose. On the basis of Annex No 1 in the concession contract, part of Dars d.d.’s profit is also foreseen for debt servicing. for 2009 at EUR 7 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The annual plan was considered by the Transport Committee as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Janko Webr for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. At its 10th meeting, on 7 April, the Transport Committee discussed an annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2010 which it sent to the State Council for the procedure of the Government. In addition to the basic material itself, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Commission’s opinion on local self-government and regional development of the State Council and explained the Ministry of Transport to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the annual plan. In the introduction, the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, gave some basic data on sources and the use of financial resources to realize the development and renewal of motorways and the plan and development of connecting roads. The total cost of spending is EUR 501 million 508 000, and this year a total of 16.3 kilometres of motorways will be put on the market, according to the Minister of Transport. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly found that the proposed annual plan deviates from the envisaged funding plan in the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways and therefore reiterates the comment already made in the course of the development and renewal of motorways in recent years. In addition to this, it points to the inequalities and shortcomings of certain data in individual chapters or sub-chapters. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council expressed concern about the financial sustainability of the motorway programme due to the envisaged task of carrying out works. In the debate itself, members noted that some comments had been repeated for a number of years in the annual plans, and once again the improvement of the Šmarje-Sap highway connection at the Malence-Šmarje-Sap motorway section, which solves the traffic congestion in Škofljica, had been re-examined. The section of road 2B1 Dravograd-Arja was also pointed out as an integral part of the third development axis and section of road 2G11 Drazenci-Grushkovje. It has been pointed out that it is very problematic to place routes too slowly into space, in particular on priority development axes, and in this regard also to continue the preparation of legislation that would allow for more efficient and faster procedures. It was also proposed that the drafter of the annual plan further sought to review the entire text of the legislative and legal service and also to address some of the uncertainties which had been demonstrated and pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. However, a large part of this ambiguity was provided in the explanations provided by the Ministry of Transport in writing to the Committee. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, as well as Darsa, responded appropriately to the remaining questions by adopting a decision following the debate: "The Transport Committee proposes to the National Assembly, pursuant to Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that it adopt a decision on agreement on the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2010" in the text annexed to this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. The government adopted an annual road renewal plan for 2010 on 25 February this year, examined it and adopted it on 7 April by the Transport Committee of the National Assembly, and if everything is planned, this plan will be approved today. In short, if those to whom this plan is intended for realisation took into account this timetable and timetable, this would mean that parts based on this plan could start no later than 1. This year's 5th. So this is almost a 5-month delay in the current year, this is a plan that relates to 1. 1. to 31. This year's 12th. But on the basis of the legal provisions, based on some of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially when it comes to the Pomur highway and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia - they are the basis for the creation of the annual plan for 2010 as, of course, for all others. What exactly do we find in the content itself? Interesting figures are foreseen for the preparation of project spatial and other documentation at those sections in 2010. If we took a closer look, we could find that the preparation of the project and other documentation in 2010 will take place mainly for the sections of Lendava - Pinke, Jagodje - Lucija, Stanežiče - Brod, Ptuj [[I see.]] - Markovci, Markovci - Gorišnica, Bezovica connection and those from the additional national programme of highway construction, Dravograd - Arja vas, Postojna, Divaca - Pivka, Pivka - Jelšane, Koper - Šmarje, Šmarje - Dragonja, Dražci - Gruškovje reserve project in the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure in the period 2007 to 2013 for construction with the funds of the Cohesion Fund - and also the last section of Jeperca - Stanežiče. With regard to the purchases of land and other property for sections whose construction is foreseen after 2010, 7.35 million euros is foreseen. These activities will also, of course, be carried out in accordance with some of the plans already adopted in the past. As far as the construction of motorways and other roads is concerned, it is mainly sections that will be dedicated to transport in 2010. So in 2010 the content of this plan will be dedicated section Klanec - Ankaran, 19.9 kilometers, Beach - Hrastje in the length of 22.5 kilometers, of course it is a certain subsection, not a whole section. In short, construction will be completed in 2010 on 14.8 km of four - lane highways and 1.5 km of connecting roads, a total of 16.3 km for our Slovenia. As regards the sections where construction continues in 2010, mention should be made of the section Klanec-Ankaran, Koper-Isolo, Peračica-Subtabor, Šentvid-Koseze, still Šmarje-Visnja Gora and the section Hajdin-Ormož, which is 27.6 km long and is divided into several sub-sections, namely Gorišnica-Ormož, 10.4 km long. Here it is an interesting thing to start building from Slovenian Bistrica to Ptuj and it has ended and now begins with the opposite direction from Ormož towards Gorišnica and then remains Gorišnica-Markovci-Ptuj, where it interferes with Natura 2000 and where things get complicated year after year and this unfortunate section is found in several annual plans for previous years. It is also interesting that this content of the annual plan also contains sections dedicated to transport in 2008 in 2010 and will carry out final work in 2010. This is cash-free, a number of sections which will also be financed on the basis of the items set out and foreseen in this annual plan. In order not to be too detailed, let me mention some of the interesting things that concern certain sections, which are repeated year after year, and are observed almost in decades. This is mainly about the other items. The content and indications of the other items are found in 1.3.5 of the chapter, the rehabilitation of state roads, the Dars d.d. Agreement. and the Municipality of Ljubljana. Under the co-financing contract for the construction of sections of the highway Malence - Šentjakob and the highway Zadorova - Tomačevo, concluded between Darsa d.d. and the Municipality of Ljubljana on 27. 3. 1996, it will be Darsa's obligation to rehabilitate state roads in 2010 EUR 5 million, and the same item will be found on the same page again when the plan for the extension of the Tomachevo Circle is under consideration and for some others and again EUR 3.8 million is foreseen for these works. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the plan and the construction of motorways in the framework of some of the legal provisions already adopted in accordance with the national programme, the additional programme of the national programme for the construction of motorways from year to year have seen that some sections, individual sections, are all over and over again over and over again over several years. It is true that we build well, that we build dearest, and that if something is dearest, it must probably be the best. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are really worried about the latest discovery of cartel negotiations among the constructionists of Slovenian highways. One of the coalition members has already announced that there is likely to be a word about this when considering this plan - indeed it will! For if we now take into account the indications that some media say they have proof in their hands, this would mean that the weight of the annual development and renewal plan for 2010 is 501 million euros, according to Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, if we follow the indications that Slovenian taxpayers have overpaid the construction of motorways between 20 and 30%, it means that the weight of this annual plan should be 350 million. Of course, there is a fundamental question that requires an immediate answer: or perhaps everything that is stated here in this annual plan can be reduced by 20 or 30% and brought closer to a figure that ensures the exact same amount of work done by 350 million euros. Until we have credible answers to these doubts in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, it is our belief that such a plan for 2010 cannot be supported. This does not mean that we are against the construction of motorway sections, which are of the utmost importance that Slovenia will be able to follow the average development of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the construction of Slovenian motorways and other roads a large number of anomalies can be observed. Taxpayers are expected to overpayment almost 30% of Slovenian motorways in the past, according to the latest data. We must take appropriate measures to ensure that similar cartel arrangements between construction companies no longer take place. It is not just the supervisory function of the competent authorities, I am also talking about the many guarantees approved by this assembly for the construction of motorways without any further analysis and verification of the actual situation. However, cartel arrangements have not only affected the abnormally high costs of works performed, but also the time of completion of the highway cross. In 2007, at a meeting of the New Town Council, I myself gave a warning to the then director of Dars. My findings that, due to the arrangements for the tenders, the motorway will be by the end of Trebnje in 2010, he refused and ensured that there are no negotiations and that the motorway will be completed in 2008. In the Group of Members, we will indeed closely monitor all the procedures necessary for the final upgrade. However, we also expect the Ministry of Environment and Space to immediately amend legislation in the area of authorisation and placement of the route on the ground and in the field of decommissioning. Construction of motorways is also essential for economic and cultural development in addition to transport integration. The 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways has a total value of over €500 million and will be put on the market for a total of 16.3 km of routes this year. In the Group of Members, we really expect the plan to be fully implemented in time. At the same time, I can mention that there are no significant shifts from last year's promises to complete parts of the significant shifts from the past. We expect an even more rational approach and greater caution in issuing invitations to the construction moguls who have privatised the small ones, as has been done in the past. In the Zares Group, by some healthy measure, we support the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members of the Government! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the 2010 annual programme, as it is essential to continue building and speeding up the completion of motorways, but we have some comments. The annual plan departs from the envisaged funding plan in the resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is true that the same has happened in previous years. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that the Government should propose appropriate legislative amendments to the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads and the amendment of the resolution on the National Road Construction Programme. It is also necessary to clarify the differences in the data in subsection 8.1. Even in this year's budget of the Republic of Slovenia, there are no investment transfers foreseen, but at the same time the lack of such funds for the smooth implementation of the annual plan is replaced by debt, which is a key source of funding for the resolution on the National Roadbuilding Programme. The financial sustainability of the motorway programme is worrying. Any extension, delay and failure to complete sections shall further increase costs. The project is further threatened by the annual additional debt, this year EUR 297.81 million, and by the Government's decision to redirect road infrastructure resources to public rail infrastructure. The government should write new reliable sources of funding, completion of motorways, including from European funds available and not used enough. In view of the decision that earmarking will no longer be a source of funding for the construction of the motorway network, it is imperative to take appropriate measures to adapt to the revised funding method in order to raise sufficient funds, including by introducing an electronic toll system that brings more resources. In order to finance non-traffic road sections, appropriate other financing methods, such as public-private partnerships, must be provided. It is necessary to upgrade the highway connection Šmarje Sap to the section of the road Malence - Šmarje Sap, section of the road Dravograd - Arja Vas as an integral part of the third development axis and section of the road Draženci - Gruškovje. It is too slow to place road routes in space, in particular on priority development axes and to draw up appropriate legislation too slowly to allow for more efficient and faster procedures. Construction of motorways is one of the best and most important projects in our country. With this project, we literally revived the economy in Slovenia on independence and opened the way to the world for citizens and entrepreneurs. The physical implementation of the resolution on the National Highway Construction Programme was bigger than planned last year as a result of the early construction of some road sections and their transfer to transport, for example on the Premur foot, for which the previous government and then Minister of Transport of Mags are certainly responsible. Radovan Žerjav and Prekmurc requirements in that part of Slovenia. On my question, in his reply in March, the Minister of Transport promised to take the highway at Drazenci-Gruškovje section to continue the construction process, because it is an additional programme which does not have the deadline and financial definitions, but this is not an obstacle to not taking this programme forward. He claimed that the construction of the highway section in the expected hands was not at risk. In the parliamentary group, we hope that the annual programme will be approved today and that the State Spatial Plan will be adopted as soon as possible, allowing for land acquisition, building permits to finally build that small piece of Pyhrenian highway, which is the only one in Slovenia that has not yet been built. Members of the Slovenian People's Party promise that we will hold the Minister of Transport to his word, so we will also support the 2010 Annual Construction Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Today's review of the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Restoration of Highways is quite difficult, as we know that the Office for Competition Protection is investigating the suspicion of cartel negotiation between the construction of our motorways, which is expected to encourage up to 30%. This is why many have a dilemma, or even support such a plan, if we can assume that the transactions have already been distributed among the companies involved in the cartel agreement and that the price of part could be reduced by one third. So, as we say, we have before us an annual development and re-establishment plan for 2010, which sets the total value of the project at EUR 501.5 million, of which approximately EUR 341 million will be allocated for the development and reconstruction of motorways. As we can see in the document itself, this year's plan is much more modest than we used to be, since this year it will only be restored what is urgently needed, which we absolutely welcome in the DeSUS Group, while we hope that the renewals will be truly completed as soon as possible and that the accuracy of transport will be as high as possible as promised by the Minister at the time of the presentation of this act. Although some €40 million will be allocated for the restoration of motorways this year, the estimated costs for the introduction of an electronic freeway toll system amount to €1.5 million and 9.9 million are foreseen for the implementation of the control and traffic management system. This year, construction of some state-owned connecting roads will continue, allowing for a better linkage of wider urban areas to the highway network, which will be allocated EUR 12.74 million. According to our assessment, one of the most important issues here is the construction of the 3rd development axis, which is still a source of spirits, because we have a feeling that it has been neglected lately. While the Minister on the working body assured us that the construction of the 3rd development axis did not stop, we hope that the Minister does not deceive us in this regard in the DeSUS Group. The fact is that the 3rd development axis means to many less developed regions of Slovenia a link to the Slovenian and European motorway corridor, which would give them better development potentials and greater interest for potential investors. In view of the State's decision that the earmarked resources will no longer be a source of funding for the construction of the motorway network, appropriate measures will need to be taken to adapt to the changed funding method, including the introduction of an electronic toll system that brings more resources. In order to finance non-traffic road sections, appropriate other financing methods should be provided. In the DeSUS Group, it is recalled that there are no planned investment transfers in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of motorways this year, but that the lack of such funds for the smooth implementation of the annual plan is replaced by a debt, which is a key source of funding for the resolution on the National Roadbuilding Programme. With annual additional debt - this year €297,81 million - and the decision to redirect road infrastructure resources to public rail infrastructure, we are concerned about the financial sustainability of the highway programme in the DeSUS Group. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u248	Have a nice hello to you all. The annual highway development and renewal plan is about half a billion marks, the euro - I apologize. However, I think that even if we thought that we would take about half a billion marks, which means 250 million euros, I think we would come through. That is why I think that the state, the government and the opposition, will have to look very hard at those who will be implementing these programmes for the development and renewal of motorways. The fact is that the total will be completed in 2010 in a total of little more than 16 kilometres of four-way motorways and connecting roads. That's not much. And half a million euros is a lot, and I'm afraid there's not going to be much of something in here on the third development axis, that's what it says on the construction of the Dravograd-Arje highway, because we've been talking about this for so long, but there's not much work done. It is true that a wide range of clashes between the mayors on this route helped the country to somehow warm up and shake up agreements on where this route would go, where it would link itself, whether it would go on the left bank, on the right bank, or whether it would go through tunnels. Today it is not clear whether the country will choose perhaps not the least, but certainly in a longer period of time the best option, this is as many tunnels as possible, since this is the only way to maintain as much green space in Slovenia as we lose from day to day. But there will certainly be something else to be done about this, because just paying for construction and not thinking about where to get any more euro back is too small and bad. In the other items, we have these arrangements for a heavy motor vehicle resting area in Murska Sobota, which will cost €4 million. Why is not accommodation paid for in Slovenia? In the European Union, in other countries of the European Union, when a truck is parked, it has to pay nocturnal fees. Indeed, not much, but it does occur, every day and hundreds and hundreds of trucks that do so can fill this financial hole to some extent, but it seems that our government with the Minister of Finance has no sense of how to bring some money into the state budget, but only to throw it out. The issue of Darsa’s agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is expected to weigh EUR 5 million. Does this mean that the State will pay import roads to a new stadium in the Cottons? Will she be paying for asphalting around this stadium in the Cottons and so on? Is this about paying for certain political services that Mr. Mayor did in the pre-election period before the last state-run elections? One wonders what's behind these millions and millions and millions of euros. Of course, there are many other things that could be corrected in this regard. After all, this should be done by the Minister of the Interior in order to prohibit the overtaking of trucks on motorways, as is prohibited in the neighbouring countries of the European Union. In Italy, there is no way that the truck would have run ahead of the truck and there would have been a three-mile column behind it because two gentlemen, one from Poland, one from Ukraine, would have interrupted who would be 60 meters per 100 km, at a kilometre speed faster than someone else. That's how it happens. But you don't think about it. The tolls for trucks are also very low. However, it appears that the Minister of Transport and Communications will be more silent and will not go into a dispute with the truck lobby, despite the fact that this is a strong factor, particularly from the point of view, as far as the state budget could be concerned. But some people don't care what comes in, it's important how far out it goes. Because, as we already know from the work so far, we know that at least 30% of the money is thrown out the window and disappeared unknown on this road program. And if we stick around here a little bit, and if we sort things out here, we can get to a significantly lower price for the development and renewal of highways for 2010. We also have a specific situation, which also spends state money on land purchases and other real estates when highway construction is needed. I ask when the so-called ones will be prepared, as they are told in Germany, contracts instead of decommissioning and then discharges themselves in the event that someone does not want to sell their barns and is the whole country because of it in squabbles, whether we will have a highway or not there once, and that such sections also lose human lives, not one life, two, but 10, 20, 30 lives. But, as it turns out, our country doesn't have much to do with it either, because perhaps the gentlemen in the government think, anyone who kills himself - one less to pay for a pension, we'll save up there, but I think it's a very perverse thinking, I think we need to think about it differently. Our gentlemen from the highway builder's club agreed on how to share these coins and this is supposed to be in Zemon in 1998 and it seems like they've made a good deal and some of them are pulling nice annuities. However, I think we will also have to control here; we will have to control the payments, we will have to control Dars and back where irregularities have been detected, of course, we will have to call the gentlemen to account. We haven't even called any of these gentlemen to account yet, but I think I could pay a lot for my sins and my reckless moves. Unfortunately, the one who was most responsible for these matters is already dead, because Mr Drnovšek was the one who was most difficult and most involved in the issue of the Trojan tunnels that we overpaid two to three times. I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u249	Mr Jelinčič, I ask that you maintain at least some dignity and do not condemn people who cannot defend themselves. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it seems that there is still no one in the Slovenian National Assembly - it is not pleasant to speak the truth, but it is not allowed to speak the truth. That's what you say. I'll talk about N-persons. N. or persons M. M., who has spent financial resources, and it is no wonder that no one is yet sitting and responding in court. But, let's say, these XYs and YXs, and XX YYs, which of course have names and names and which are well installed in the Slovenian political and economic "establishment", these are the ones that are most responsible for the fact that we have paid 30% more than we should if we take a comparison with the German motorways and 60% more. But of course, this is not to be talked about, because Mr President of the National Assembly will prevent any mention of any of his or her political or any other godfather or co-worker. I don't think that's fair. I don't think it's necessary then to wonder why the country is in such a position, because banning us from talking about these things is the worst thing. Well, we're not in the inn, but we're in the National Assembly, and sometimes it just seems that this round form of the National Assembly is more like a circus than anything else. It is sad, very sad, tragic, for all that we cannot say will be paid by taxpayers; those who are unemployed; those who have nothing to eat; those who cannot pay their children holidays and so on. But some gentlemen don't care about anything. They will prefer to continue to rule and prevent any debate, debate or anything like that. One wonders where the traffic documentation is for all these roads and for all these sections, because I doubt that the money written here will be enough to do anything else. I am sure that these roughly half a billion euros will not be enough, because the Annexes we are accustomed to will certainly come, and, of course, the National Assembly will support them after the dictatorship of coalition parties, because despite all that, the coalition has a majority. We can jump, the president of the National Assembly won't let us jump too high, but we can at least say something like he'll let us. But we will have to give money to those who are in opposition, more than those who are in the coalition, because the coalition has always been able to take care of itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS will be presented by Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u252	Respectable. Today, we have a question on the agenda called whether we are talking about the development plan and the renewal of the highway network or how we are talking about how to handle 2010 with the money allocated to this area. Indeed, 157 million annuity and interest should be served from this plan, if we call it that. This is, in fact, what also relates to the so-called debt that is yet to be adopted by law in this year, amounting to EUR 297 million. The fact is that the time in which we adopt this plan is, in other words, irrelevant for 2010. Anyone who is following any kind of development planning knows that if he wants to build a road, if he wants to build an object, he needs to make a decision and build it for at least half a year or more. It's no different than it's been in the past few years. It has been in individual periods in the last 12, 13 years, since we have been adopting these programmes, it is better that this plan was adopted at the beginning of the year, and there were also years when it was a month later. Last year, when this government took office or the first year of the highway construction programme in Slovenia, we said: "No, next year we will come with a development plan already in 2009 for 2010," did not happen, and there are probably objective circumstances that this could not happen. But that's wrong. It's not right, because anyone who believes that something can be done in the current year has to plan things in advance. I am not asking here for responsibility, I am asking here for real options and what the National Assembly can contribute to making more order in this area, would be more effective and that we can finally present to citizens and citizens the full picture of what we have already built in the past, what obligations we therefore have, what plans we could make this year, what we could do with these plans and what is long-term and where we have the resources to do so. These answers in this way, even when we routinely accept this insufferable apathy to this question after probably arduous yesterday, although there were predictions that they would come with all the data and that they would reveal what was wrong, it was not a zemonic plan, that was another story - the zemonic agreement was probably [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The Winter Plan is also close to you, as far as the weapons are concerned, you already know that. Trade went cross-border, but these are other stories. We're talking, of course, about the program when we need to figure it out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u253	I was just trying to remind him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u254	Yeah, well, I stopped because I knew [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u255	Please stay with just one story. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u256	There is such a small difference between Zemon and Zemun that a person can sometimes skip. Of course, this is a case of very serious questions. I have myself, and the Liberal Democracy Club also has a fundamental issue concerning how to provide funding for this year's programme and also for the completion of the highway programme in Slovenia and for the restoration of motorways, especially because we also have a report from the Court of Auditors, which says that this has not been done most rationally in 2007-2009 and that we should change something here. We have the resources in this program for this. Have we learned anything from this? Is it gonna be any different? I don't see it from the program I have on my desk. I also don't see what the new source of construction and reconstruction will be, because in the part where we're talking about implementing the new tolling action programme, there are exactly three and a half lines, and it says we're going to spend a million and a half euros on this. What are we gonna do, and when it comes to what, read it to yourself, I'll tell you where it says it. What are we going to do about it on this program this year, this text is not in it. And these are the key questions. Today I hear there will be no more system source. He hasn't been here for years, he hasn't been here since Mr Bajuk's appearance, when he said that the money we collected instead of the previous petrol toll with the law on the purpose of raising money for the construction of motorways was lost in the integrated budget. It is not new that the system source is no longer present. This systemic resource, although we have a system, is no longer there, because it is lost in the integrated budget. That there's a whole bunch of things that we could've done a long time ago. Let's just say I remember a thing, like the service zone of Ciquava. 8 years in the program, even this year, I don't know why you don't start building and why you don't rent to those who have already received a concession or whatever to build a gas station, a restaurant and so on. I don't know why you haven't started building yet.Oh, my God! It's been on the program for eight years. And more! The connection, because you're all from that end, the connection to the port of Koper, should have been made in 1998. This year says it'll be November. I hope, I believe, because it will be useful because it will be more flow, because more traffic is likely to get through this and so on. And it just keeps repeating itself. That is why it seems to us in the Liberal Democracy that we should approach, while other than confirming this programme that it is, - I did not go to such lengths as to say that it was copied in many parts last year but, if we all work together, we will easily find - that we will finally agree that Dars will become a serious economic society. This also through what can be read, writes and will be, in his own name, on his own account, by becoming the owner of the property and also by having the service and everything that belongs to it, and that he will be beyond what is called the state budget and what burdens the Republic of Slovenia, and that we will not witness every year in the National Assembly only a decision-making "for" or "against" guarantee for new credits or credits that we will repay the previous credits so that we will not be here just to cover what a company, a company that is state-owned, which Dars could certainly be, by giving him or transferring to him everything that this company should have to be so that it can be. And allow foreign investors or Slovenian investors to enter with a minority share in this part, if necessary. That is why I am rooting for 20% if this company is running out of money to carry out its programme to enter this, to build this highway program and to maintain it properly in the future. Since this is the position of the Group of Members, I will not be asking questions at this time, but through the debate. I also want answers to some of the questions that I have already raised in this part. You can't be excited about this program, it can't be rejected because it's already here in May. There can be no prejudice to the scope of activities that require a period of planning, a period of preparation of tenders and so on. I believe that the things envisaged in this annual plan are already under way and following the provisional financing decision for this year you had to prepare these things, because otherwise the plan will be worthless. I believe that we will clear some things up in the debate. Otherwise, we will support this development plan for this year at the Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u257	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Much has already been said and presented in today's presentation of the views of the groups. Let me say that the Social Democrats Group will support the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Construction of Highways. Some debates in the context of the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members could still be accepted in some way if they did not know that some of the groups of Members had been extremely critical of their past work. Critical to the work for which they had every opportunity and opportunity to speed things up, implement them, document and arrange them so that the current composition of the Ministry of Transport could be even more successful. However, today's and the current annual plan for the development and construction of motorways for 2010, to be adopted, the total value of this is just over half a billion euros, that is 501 million 508 thousand 289 euros. This year's plan will build 16.3 kilometers of road sections, 14.8 kilometers of four-way motorways and 1.5 kilometers of connecting road, which are the lower section of Pluska - Ponikve and Ponikve - Hrastje and the missing part of the Ankaran raid on Luka Koper. Construction will also continue in 2010 to a total of 19.4 km of road sections. Further construction will take place on the following sections, Peračica - Podtabor, Šentvid - Koseze, second phase of connection to Luka Koper, Koper - Izola and Gorišnica - Ormož and platform for petrol service Cikava. We also welcome the signing of the contract between Dars d.d. and to Mr Kovacic for the purchase of land at Poników, as this has started the final phase of the construction of the lower motorway and represents the backbone of the further development of the whole South-Eastern Slovenia area all the way to Posavje, Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, as well as in connection with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. Quality transport links at the level of the Republic of Slovenia are therefore extremely important for the further development, equitable regional development and further support for the economy, crafts and entrepreneurship. With regard to discussions on developmental eights, placement in space, these are important tasks in the first phase of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Therefore, we cannot discuss today just like this, starting with and thinking only about the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport. Here we must be realistic and see things from a broad global perspective, and also in this area accept and adopt the proposed annual plan for the development and construction of motorways for 2010, and in relation to the development eight, support the preparation and placement of development axes as quickly as possible into space and, on the other hand, consider the time and period that we live in, and also know that it is necessary to provide the necessary resources and that in today's time of economic and financial crisis, a period that is slightly different from that of the past when it comes to development axes, but unfortunately not all that can be done. So in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the Annual Plan for the Development and Construction of Highways for 2010.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the annual plan. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u260	The relevance of this document to Members and Members seems to be declining slowly. Last but not least, the highway cross is practically before the end and the questions of which of the sections will be made, when will it be any earlier, later, which has already been such a traditional debate in Parliament is out. This is also known since this annual plan is planned at EUR 500 million this year, which is less than 250 million of which will be collected tolls. This means that, in fact, half of the motorway programme already represents tolls, and even so for some of the hated vignettes on the coalition side, I think so welcomed by the users of the motorway. If this hearing about the electronic toll system, which is allocated to it for a million and a half euros, could still be tolled, as was the debate here, not only on the highway, but, as is the case with Germany, as well as Switzerland, also with the road network, I think at the expense of freight transport, we could get more money at the expense of the truck transit and leave the vineyards alone, as they are. I think he's hiding there, and that's what experience and income also show, like Germany, which doesn't have vignettes, and he collects a lot of money at the expense of tolling freight. I hope that we will also take the rest of the road network along the highway, but, as I understand now, the profession is now being explored. Nevertheless, it appears that EUR 250 million of the toll collected will also balance the 160 million credits to be repaid, so that probably this sustainability of the highway programme, if they could properly toll the tolls of trucks and if they could also save, I thought in the debate last year that at least 10% could be saved, i.e. EUR 50 million, would be able to show good will and save. Now, with the latest information, we hear what the Competition Protection Office thinks is even bigger. So 10% would be good. However, Prime Minister Darsa has not shown her willingness to you on the Committee on Transport for the last time to my question. That's too bad. This sustainability of the motorway programme could probably be further enhanced for the benefit of taxpayers. I must say that I am also pleased that this annual plan has finally become an item of Toll Station Breakdown, which means that the project documentation is beginning. However, on the other hand, I am concerned that it is written in the same programme, under the headings, that money will also be used for the renewal of toll stations. In the same document, we are working on project documentation to demolish toll stations and at the same time, we are also spending money on their reconstruction. Let's leave the money for the reconstruction, but let's destroy it and allow this free flow of traffic, transit, so it doesn't look like we have borders. We don't have any boundaries. Let's tear this toll station down, for God's sake, and let's make it free. Unless Darsa is privatized, the private will demand back tolls and back ramps, and we'll take another five hours to the sea and wait at the Kozina toll station. Another comment that I think would be welcome. I note that every year a lot of money is also allocated to the traffic control and management system. It's these portals that we're looking at over the highway, which says, "Don't drive too fast, don't drive too fast under the influence of alcohol." And every year, it's 10 million euros to make the system work. I also asked on the committee how who exactly are the providers of this equipment. These portals are known all over Europe. All of Europe knows that. I received the answer to my question that in Slovenia there are three companies: Traffic Design, Public Enlightenment and another company, and now I don't remember the name. And the fact that the whole of Europe knows this, I hope that the calls are international, and I hope that there are no arrangements here as well. I do not believe that only three companies in Slovenia are capable of something that the whole of Europe is doing. I propose that the Ministry, however, check this part of the call for proposals a little bit. Above all, I really think there's a lot of money going on, but actually this isn't working out so well. And one more thing to do. I must also warn you because I was warned by the Cerknica Congregation about the anti-group fence at the Unec viaduct. In April 2008, Dars promised, in line with an anti-group burden study, that this anti-group fence - because the locals there are very disheartening - would be in the 2010 programme. This was a 2008 official letter from Dars saying that the implementation of anti-group protection is expected to begin in 2010. In 2010, Dars sent an answer to the municipality of Cerknica, where he said that the fact that the 2010 annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways, which is under consideration in the National Assembly, no longer provided funds for the implementation of anti-group protection. The promise given to the natives in 2008 is no longer valid in 2010. But if you'll excuse me - the minister has other things to do now - Dars has lied in this year's program. You have written in this annual programme: "Implementation of anti-group measures in the 5th and 10th European Transport Corridor." It's not fair. It is not fair that Dars speaks one, refers to the programme that we are adopting today and the implementation of anti-group measures is envisaged. I propose that the Ministry of Transport implement this anti-group fence and, above all, warn Dars to speak the truth and tell what is true, not to refer to something that is not real. This actually means that they simply - probably the new administration - have changed their priorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support this annual programme and also hold the Minister to his word, because we want this to continue. However, I myself think that the matter is too ambitious and too far-fetched. I have a feeling that this is more about harmonising the implementation of the plans already adopted with the financial possibilities of the investor. At the moment, this programme does not give me any further impetus to the Slovenian economy, because this would be done in one way or another, but in the Slovenian People's Party we expected that the government would truly be more ambitious, effectively undertaking projects that would promote economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia. We have already warned at the beginning of the mandate that investment in both roads, rail infrastructure and local investment should be encouraged. I am sure that if we went to investment at local level, the economic situation in our country would certainly be much better. Look, the country's in debt. Currently more for the maintenance of social status and peace in Slovenia. We support that. This needs to be maintained and we really do not need any social instability. We would support the obligation to invest this fresh money in projects and beyond in jobs and beyond in the sustainable social situation of Slovenian citizens and citizens. However, we support, and we want significantly more ambition and efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. The Annual Plan for the development and renewal of the 2010 motorway somehow indicates that the construction of the highway cross is nearing its end. This is also adapted to the dynamics of construction and also to the extent of construction of the remaining sections. The conclusion of these works will, of course, make an outstanding contribution to meeting all those expectations of the areas where these sections are located and also to transport, which has increased enormously since Slovenia's entry into the European Union. It is also appropriate to allocate funds to maintain motorways. I think it is very important to note, however, in this programme, that we do not talk this year about the fact that, during the annual season or at a time when the weather conditions are such that renewals and rehabilitations of vehicles can also be carried out, this is not done because traffic is hampered. And that was one period, or that was one of the opinions we met in the previous term, and then there were very big problems, because some sections were too slow to regulate themselves and some could not be properly regulated in due course. The programme prepared by Dars is designed to ensure that the renovations and maintenance on individual axes are carried out in a uniform manner and that there are no excessive congestions in individual directions. I think this is what needs to be particularly welcomed and pointed out in this annual plan for the development and restoration of highways. Of course, there is something else to note. In accordance with the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, consideration should be given to other sections as an additional motorway programme which was not financially valid or not financially valid in the current resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways. In doing so, it is necessary to reiterate the fact that the vignette system has greatly reduced resources for additional road sections, which are also known today as development axes. This is the 3rd, 3rd and 4th development axis, for which sufficient resources are not available in the resolution on the national programme. However, this system currently in force does not provide sufficient funds for the collection of the tolls, for the payment of all credits already rented, and even less for all those to be leased both for the completion of the 2010 programme and for the next, one or two years, for the final construction of the entire cross. It is therefore extremely important in this programme that the approach is in line with the action plan to change the toll system towards the implementation of the toll system, which will allow to collect the toll in relation to the toll in relation to the toll taken, but not in flat-rate form, as the vignettes do today. With all the debaters, it is increasingly apparent that we are paying more attention to the new developmental axes, the new road sections that need to be built as soon as possible in the future. This toll system is also one of those that should give a very clear answer, how we can build new road sections. In particular, it should be noted that Dars was established with the aim of building the highway cross as soon as possible. Something similar will have to be prepared in Slovenia for the construction of development axes. It is impossible to expect that individual ministries will perform all the necessary tasks to build development axes with sufficiently expected dynamics and with satisfactory resources, which will also allow for this dynamic. Meditation on the preparation of the rebalancing, the resolution on the national programme for the following year must go in this direction, in order to clarify the issue of what Darsa himself is in the form he is in today and what he will then call for for tomorrow's continuation of the extremely large and important sections that await us within the development axes. We will certainly have to design or upgrade Dars or form a new organisation that will take over the implementation of the development axes. Today, we have a lot of problems with the placement and interaction between ministries, because there is no umbrella coordinator to be concerned about what the Ministry of Environment is doing, what the Ministry of Transport is doing, what the Ministry of the Environment is, what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing. These coordinations and negotiations are often unproductive, because in fact everyone protects the interests of his ministry, but does not feel that national bullets, that we also need these development axes as an important development element in the future to link mainly those regions that are proven to be lagging behind today for areas in which the highway cross is already reaching and taking off. The tasks ahead of us are very much dependent on how we will probably have to define how to design an institution this year that will actually take over the management of these biggest projects, one of the biggest projects in Slovenia. If we touch on some other issues that are also present in this annual programme, I would like to point out in particular the section on the Skofljica itself, so that somehow I must say that we finally welcome the decision of the Government, which directly imposed on all actors who decide where and when this section on the Skofljica will be placed in the room to do so by 15 May at the latest. May 15th is the time when we expect the ministries to come with a very clear view of where this important road section will take place, where today there are extreme traffic congestions and it is actually impossible to organise life and to allow, after all, the development of this place, because it is already in complete collapse and does not allow the normal communication of this environment, where this section is taking place, is also not complete of Kočevska and all others coming from Dolenjska, and they are bound to this road, towards this direction. This decision of the government seems to me to have been extremely important. I hope to say that it should have been adopted at least six months earlier. It was accepted, and on May 15 is certainly the one we all look forward to, how this route will be arranged and then accepted in the government. As a result of the government's decision, at least in my opinion, individual sections will experience the epilogue and then also the realization in due course. Some such procedures, which are still ongoing and are also linked to the full connection of Šmarje-Sap, are such that, in fact this year, part of this annual programme should be devoted not only to the final adoption of the State Spatial Plan to place this connection in space, but also to the possibility of issuing parts for the preparation of the project documentation for the construction of the Šmarje-Sap connection. These are the measures that we can actually fund in the annual programme right now, and we also expect this dynamic to run like this. It may also have a small question for the Ministry of Transport, whether it has information as to how far away is the process of the State Spatial Full-connection Plan Šmarje-Sap. One of the last reservations is to be made to the Ministry of Health or the conditions that this Ministry had. I think or at least hope that this information is such that these reservations are lifted and that we can expect that the Government will also deal with this act in a very short time and thus meet the expectations of this part of Slovenia, that it will also be able to see the realisation of this section as soon as possible. The transition from the construction of the highway programme to the development axes, I think, in 2010, it is an extremely important event that will be marked by this annual programme. I hope that in 2011 we will also have a very clear picture of what new laws will be needed to finance these axes, which resources will be determined for this, and in particular that we will also have a solution to the question of putting these routes into space, because this is the only way to obtain resources that can come not only from the state budget, not only from public resources, but also from private resources. If this image is clear, then these calculations are possible. Above all, I think that, to a large extent by this modified way of financing, when we include private capital, let us also exclude the possibility of cartel negotiation, because then the responsibility is significantly greater, in what way these sections are being built, and not considering how to draw as much out of the state budget as possible, but will have to think about how to build these new sections as rationally as possible, because private capital will also expect as much as possible from these sections. Good luck to all those who will be involved in these programmes, these legislative preparations and the search for solutions. I hope they'll be waiting for the presentation as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Of course, I will support this annual program myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Jerovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with his associates! This present annual plan to build and rebuild the highway is the first to be discovered by the zemonic coalition. And I don't think the right people are sitting here to answer Members' questions, because it turns out that the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Supervisory Council, the sub-contractors of the Zemonal Coalition, and that Dars may be the executive body of the Zemonal Coalition. And Director Dars is not here today. I don't see anyone from Dars or maybe Mr. Director should be, by the way, it seems to me that it would be hygienic for her to step down because she was the President of the Supervisory Council during the reign of the zemonal coalition. [[...]] For this reason, the matter should be presented from the point of view of the zemonic coalition, which has apparently been preparing this annual programme. It is not surprising, therefore, that virtually construction and reconstruction are halting. It's practically stopping. That is why I say that it is not possible to support this annual plan. Instead of the Minister coming with a general item 30% increase in the performance of all items, because it has been revealed that in all these years at least 30% was insufficient in terms of the amount of money. Mr. Minister, think this way. Minister of your government, Mr Lahovnik, is, somewhere, we have read a statement that the connections of the Zemonese coalition go high to the state summit. From your government. Finally, it is also said that at the time of the signing of this zemonic coalition, there were strong people in Parliament who also created this policy over the decade. And they don't report either. I don't know why the Zemonal Coalition was mentioned today. Was that a threat? We know the zemon clan is dealing with liquidations. Was she depressed, silently threatened that no one would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u267	Comrade Jerovšek, you speak of only one clan in one act. One clan at a time, please. [[...]] Which clan are you going to talk about?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u268	Why didn't you warn me earlier when I mentioned the zemonic clan?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u269	I got it from Zémon and Zamunski [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u270	Zemunski is Zemunski [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u271	Please tell me who you're going to talk about, because I'm not going to let you have one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u272	I'm interested in the plan of the Zemonal Coalition and why it's referred to as a threat to the Zemun clan. And look, it was also said in those days that we did not only 30% less or prices were 30% higher. I also agree with that assessment that we built roads on impossible routes. Trojan is one of those routes. After the overpasses, along the tunnels 30 meters above the existing route of the old road, and now we're driving 60 kilometers across this area. It's a scandal. It's a scandal. The builders, this Zemun, Zemonian coalition wanted to have as many construction sites as possible in one location and such sections are still in Slovenia. Until you report on the plans of the Zemonal Coalition, we're not talking to the right people. There should be a police minister here, a finance minister, how these two billion will return to this plan, what we will do for these two billion, and only then can we have a serious conversation on a serious basis. And it has to be done. I won't discuss it anymore, because we don't have any more time, we haven't reported enough, but these are the basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u273	Time's enough, thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Just Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! Of course, I am in favour of clearing up all matters related to the response in Zemon. Since I've been here in the National Assembly, there's always been talk about the feudalization of individual ministerial departments. If this is true and I believe that it is partly true, then the transport resort was almost all this time since I am sitting in the National Assembly, Febd one of the Slovenian Spring parties. Well, let's just leave it, that's not the point on the agenda that we're supposed to be discussing today. I think the legislation on which highway construction is based is observable. I looked at the adoption of these documents, the national programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia in 1995, the amendment of this document was made in the 1998 National Assembly, in 2004 replaced by a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and part of this resolution is also a national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2003 to 2013. It is said that this national programme will expire in two years. And even when I looked at the graphic annexes of this document, it's more than obvious that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u275	May I have peace on the right side of the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u276	I don't mind, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u277	It bothers me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u278	Yeah, then calm them down.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u279	Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u280	Thank you very much. When I look at the cartographic annexes to these documents, it is more than obvious that such legal bases need to be amended, a resolution, both the national programme and the cartographic part of these documents, is called. The need to amend the legislation is also addressed to the report on the annual development and renewal plan for 2010 by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which states that a change to the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads from the programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is also necessary from a legal point of view. It is said that more than enough caution has been given to the Government and the competent ministry to undertake amendments to these legal bases. I would also like to refer to what my colleague, Janko Weber, President of the State Transport Committee, said about the development axes. I think that the development of development axes should be included in this legislation that I have previously discussed. Of course, not just in this legislation. If we want to build development axes at all, we call the 3rd development axis, the 4th development axis, the 3rd development axis and so on, and so on, we need to adopt other legislation that will achieve this so that we can place these development axes more quickly into space. For some time now the so-called law on the placement of line infrastructure in space has been promised, and I think we should hurry with this, because it is high time for this to be done in the National Assembly. Another problem is the placement of these development axes into space. In the period 2005 to 2009, following assurances and following the approval of the former Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Erjavac, when he answered my question in the spring of 2009, it is said one year ago that no State Spatial Plan relating to roads on the 3rd or 4th Development Axis had been adopted in the period 2005 to 2009. In answer to this question, however, another information was given at that time. That 45 State location plans or State spatial plans had been adopted in the period 2005-2009, of which 9 dealt with the problem of State roads other than motorways. It is said that the installation of motorway sections has been quite good throughout this period since we have a programme to build motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. However, at the exam, placement in the premises of other state roads, especially the so-called development axes, fell. Why? Because the system of placing these routes is different from that of the motorway, such as the installation of routes of development axes. I think that Dars was significantly more interested and he was driving this whole mechanism, that the country, that the competent authorities, were working more intensively in this area. The current organisation of placing development axes in the space of the most responsible departments, I speak for all time, not only for the time of this government, both in the environment and in the transport ministry, is not good enough. Ministers answered my question Monday, says Dr. Vlačič and Dr. Žarnic, that they will meet for a month now and try to move these things forward so that they will come first and be placed in space. However, it is not just these two departments; it is also the other departments involved in the decision-making of placement in the premises: the Culture Ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture. The human resources structure in these ministries is not enough to move these procedures faster. If we leave the development axis aside and look at the adoption of municipal spatial plans, spatial plans of 210 Slovenian municipalities, then we see that we have only 30 or maybe some spatial plan more. The ministries which give their views on these spatial documents are not sufficiently qualified, professionally or humanly, are humanely malnourished and weak. And we should, as colleague Janko Weber said earlier, organise ourselves in some other way in putting state roads or transport development axes into space. I'm sorry I went a little off topic, but other colleagues also talked about the developmental axes, about putting into space, so that this would also be the end of it, Mr Vice-President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u281	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u282	Your Honors are here! This is probably the last time we've considered this program, given that you recently adopted the ruling coalition, the abolition of Darsa's supervisory board. You transferred Dars to the Capital Investment Management Agency, and we are likely to witness this company's privatisation programme in this term. Nevertheless, we can find that this programme is relatively modest this year, too ambitious and that it would expect some shifts in certain areas where we read the same data year after year. Let me mention the section in the environment from which I come from, the highway connection Postojna-Diviča-Pivka, Pivka-Yelšane, which from the annual programme to the annual program through the copy-paste method, is copied and remains in that section that talks about the preparation of project and other documentation. This project has been put into these programmes for a long, long time, and it will obviously not get the acceleration it should have received in this mandate, but it is urgently needed, given the increase in traffic on this corridor. If this reference does not change and cannot be changed in this programme, I cannot personally support this programme, then in a few years we will experience a similar collapse on this route as we have recently witnessed in Pomurje. I think that this is irresponsible and that it would be a time for these projects to be seriously processed and that this route is being treated as it can be put into space. Now this section of Postojna-Divača, Pivka-Yelšane is treated as one project. The complications arising from individual segments hinder the implementation of the entire project. The most urgent section, which needs to be addressed urgently, is the section of the Illyrian Bistrica-Pivka. Therefore, after this corridor is known, this section should be exempted from this Joint Programme, placed as a specific project and initiated with the purchase of land, with the preparation of documentation and with all that is necessary for this connection to be completed as soon as possible at the section of Illyrian Bistrica-Pivka. From Beer to Postojna there is no longer such problem. The same part of the route: Divaca-Ribnica-Ilirska Bistrica is not so heavily burdened as to urgently demand rescue on this part. Therefore, it would be recommended that in the next year's programme, when the National Assembly re-examines this programme, you come up with a more ambitious plan and that this programme be supported by the opposition. I will only personally support him if this is the case in this way and if it is clear that this section of the Illyrian Bistrica-Pivka will start within the next two years. Today the problem of anti-group fences has already been mentioned. It's a problem that doesn't financially mean I don't know what a big deal it is. This programme also provides for relatively small funds, I think 150 million euros, but it means a commitment that should be fulfilled mainly in those sections where the motorway came later, after the construction of the buildings. And one of those sections is Ravbarcomanda. In 1972, it was the first highway in Yugoslavia: Postojna-Vrhnika, was built on that part after the residential houses in Javornica had already stopped. And they don't have an anti-group fence today. With Dars building it to those who came to this area later, after the highway had already been built there. This is an unequal treatment. And those people out there don't deserve it. Promises have long been made and have not been fulfilled. And even in this programme this is not fulfilled, which is why I cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u283	Franz Jursha. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I will also support the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2010. It is true, and I agree that the lower leg of the highway is also one of those who should have been built substantially earlier. But it's better once than never. I regret only that there have been many tragic traffic accidents at this section in recent years. And that, in connection with road safety, this area was very neglected. Even those colleagues who have debated or have repeatedly driven across other areas may not even imagine how large the traffic flow is in this area of south-eastern Slovenia. Here is a real tribute to this government that the open issues have been resolved and that agreements have been concluded with landowners and that, if luckily, by the middle of this year, so by the end of June, this extremely important section of the highway network will be completed. Not only will some people talk about supporting the economy, not supporting the economy, and so on, that some have the opportunity to act, but perhaps not. I don't know why not. However, it is precisely in support of the economy, as the major economists of large companies say, that this section of the lower leg of the motorway is extremely important not only for craftsmen and entrepreneurs from the area of Dolenjska, White Landscape and Posavje. It is also important because each one of us, who rides other areas in the Republic of Slovenia, notes that perhaps in the same annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways, has not taken this area seriously in the past so much that things have not really been resolved. It therefore thanks the Minister of Transport, as well as the Secretary of State, Dr Rad Genorio, to the President of the Government, who have actually taken part and have been able to agree on this matter. Why this has not been resolved in the past, especially because some local communities have not successfully resolved the matter, somehow surprises me. Also as such, I had the opportunity to attend the preparation of documentation for the preparation of the first site plan for the third development axis, the southern part. This is about geological research and finally the New Town would get a siege, which it unfortunately does not have, despite Krka, Revoz and other large companies. I think that, in connection with the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Reconstruction of the Highway, I am kind of surprised when I had the opportunity to look at the past annual plans, and that some of the funds that were being put in place or envisaged were also for certain major cities, but the New City is not lagging behind. Moreover, it is economically even significantly stronger after the gross social product that it contributes to the state budget that it creates and thus contributes significant resources to the state budget, but somehow it was not. I don't know if we were too few to talk about. I know that colleague Anderlich has repeatedly stressed this, I'm sure and I know. On my own, I have the opportunity to see daily what the irregular highway network means or such a priority that needs to be implemented. Therefore, thank you to all those who have accelerated the completion of the construction of the bottom leg of the highway. Of course, I also support the construction of all those sections in the Republic of Slovenia, which are now in the annual road development and renewal plan for 2010. On Sunday, when I was driving around Pomura, it was kind of like, I would say, although I was at a funeral when I drove to this area, it was nice, because somehow I saw what it meant for an area, even though the area on the outskirts of the Republic of Slovenia was a highway network. I would also like to see the area of Dolenjska and White Krajina come to such a highway network. But I also understand those who have been critical in recent months of not being in the White Land, I don't blame them. Maybe I just resent them not helping us speed this up in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u285	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again a nice greeting to all present, including representatives of the government! A man would be happy to support the highway construction program, but at the same time, I have a whole lot of reservations that I'm going to make later. I would also like to point out when the highway cross will be built, and then the next one will be the connecting road and the so-called development axis. I am encouraged by the fact that the preparation of these construction works will be accelerated in order to help the builders, and there are much better times for developmental axes. Where did my reservations come from? Lately, more exciting news has been coming on a day - to - day basis about the construction of highways. It's more of an affair. And I'd like to draw a parallel by building Croatian highways. Even there they had an affair with Bechtel, which was a contractor and subcontractor and so on. But these are their problems. But I would like to point out that in one year there were 90 kilometers of highways. We've got smaller sections. Today’s address, however, upsets me as to how John Zidar’s family serves on highways. This information about the zemonic agreement, when it is seen that the highway programme has been overpaid by 30% and perhaps Minister Križanič, instead of giving further incentives, would try to start with this 30% amounting to two billion, at least some of it to recover from that money so that we can build a little faster. Now we're related. The mentioned company M2R from Škofljica, where this company is mentioned by the daughter, and this company supplied tunnel anchors. And there's nothing wrong with not being a stun tunnel in between. We know his infamous story, the fallout. If the anchors had a role to play or not, I don't know. But certainly too disturbed by all these ties, relationships and acquaintances, clan arrangements. And then maybe at the end of "The Way Pressed With Good Purposes Water to Hell." And you can't explain anything else here, either. The good intentions are, of course, that Slovenia will get the right transport connections, not only motorways, including connecting roads, rail with hand in hand. In doing so, there is a lot of irregularities and around this company, M2R is said to be a subcontractor of the very well-known company Atlas Copco. I've met with this company in previous jobs, and it has high references. But what good does it do, if it's somehow flawed and twisted and then you end up reading that kind of news? As I said, principled support for the construction of highways yes, I don't care whether they work in my environment or 100 kilometers away. If they make it 100 kilometers away, I'll just have a better ride at the finish line, but if I do, I'll have it on the start. So the support is yes, but Mr Minister, there is another institution in the country, when we are going to cut down, that there will be no such news that people who barely break through from month to month and pay for this matter, who want to travel comfortably and safely, are justly upset. And I will think hard about how to vote today on this agenda item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u287	Mr. Tom Mencinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u288	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The annual plan for the development and renewal of the 2010 motorway in Slovenia is good in economic conditions and financial conditions. In fact, we are talking about half a billion euros, which is focused on this area, despite the fact that quite a few of this money is intended to pay back current liabilities. For Gorenjska as such, I can say that we can truly be satisfied once. Let me say in a few words that this continuation of the construction of Peračica - Podtakbor, here are mainly viaducti Peračica, Ljubno, Lesnica and the tunnel Ljubno. I cannot understand that these projects and these investments have been waiting for so long in Slovenia. In fact, it is the tenth corridor, which is the most important corridor from the Karavanka tunnel to the border with Croatia. The next thing is very commendable, building the Naklo connection. This thing is concluded and actually the Tilt and another entry point for Kranj, which will be very welcome. Implementation of several connecting roads in Slovenia on this highway cross, investment renewal of roads. Here we are talking mainly about the renewal of the vehicles. These are the export routes of Brnik, Vodice and exports of Podtakbor, Kranj and repair of dilations, drainage, hydroisolations and asphalt mainly at work under Mežaklja and viadukta Moste. Let me say that this issue has been pointed out for many years, in fact from the very beginning of handing over this part of the motorway to use. Let me say that the natives who live under this part of the highway are really very exposed to these dilations. So we have come to the point that these things will change and life in this part of the congregation of Jesenica will be more peaceful. In particular, if we look at this part, the re-routing of the areas of decommissioned international crossings to new areas of motorways and fast roads. Here we can talk about the border crossing of Karavanka, which is a true story that has been going on, I can say, since Minister Virant's time, and it continues now, so I am glad that this thing is moving. However, also because of the incomprehensible reasons, this matter has cost so much time because you need to know that the interest of the municipality in these areas and other things has been demonstrated, so that I know that coordination between several ministries is also a problem: for internal affairs, transport, finance and ultimately the local community. But I can say, however, that we have come so far that MJU is primarily coordinating this part, that a regulation is practically also being drawn up after the Government's decision, which will then specify exactly what the border crossing is, what are the areas that can also be allocated to any economic activity. The next thing that is commendable is the conversation between Austria and Slovenia on this side of the highway. This is where we're talking about another tunnel pipe. I am convinced that Slovenia must insist on the construction of another tunnel tube, not a rescue tube. This is again this 10th corridor, which connects practically Europe through Slovenia, the former Yugoslav countries and directly or directly to Turkey. These are all future members of the European Union, and I am convinced that this is a corridor that is extremely important for the European Union. Next thing. Today we have heard quite a few comments on anti-group protection. Here I agree with all those who have warned of this and also demanded that, wherever possible, the arrangements be made. We have been warning this problem for quite some time on this highway cross, and I think it is not such a cost, and it would make life easier for people to live with the noise that appears on the highway. Let me finish. With regard to the quality of the construction of motorways, I believe that we should consider whether this is a matter of regulations, criteria or a way to stop in practice the highway being built is being rebuilt next year. Let me make it simple, whoever builds this road practically gets a lifetime subscription that we all pay for together. In this area, it is absolutely necessary to do something, establish a certain control, and perhaps set higher standards, so that a built highway will not require additional work for at least 20 years. I am convinced that roads are especially important for the economy, for economic development and also for the quality of all the services we use. However, I would like to commend the proposed annual plan for the development of motorways for 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u289	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u290	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. For the sixth year that I've been here in Parliament, I've had a kind of bitter feeling about this evergreen. I come from a region where there is not a foot of highway and to the first section of the highway Korošci we also drive 70 and 80 kilometers. Of course, this glass of pelina is even more bitter this time because we have learned that there are cartel agreements in Slovenia that have significantly influenced the construction of Slovenian motorways. For two, according to some estimates, we have overpaid Slovenian highways for four billion euros from the state budget, and today, Korosci, Belokranjci, would have taken a number of other vehicles along a beautiful fast or highway if this money had disappeared from the highway. I will say that this money was stolen from Slovenian citizens, Slovenian taxpayers. And these companies that gathered together, these construction barons that gathered at Zemon Castle, could have done this 3rd development axis for free, or this 3rd development axis had already been paid, overpaid. They got a pretty good advance for this third developmental axis. And if this third development axis is really going to be done for free or with this advance, then I apologize deeply for the word "place". We are Koreans in this country because of this traffic loneliness, second-class citizens, with first-class problems. If you read the Finances today, you will see that unemployment in the Koror region during this government has increased by 50% in the last year. With regard to this traffic loneliness, 40 years ago, the communist authorities then shut down the railway from Velenje and until the Otis Summit, and in this transport isolation, the region simply cannot develop. And this third development of wasps should have been built decades ago, but we are only talking about it today. Although this document also provides for the construction of the section of Dravograd - Arja Vas, this chapter is foreseen after 2010. When's that? 2019, 2030? Tell me when you intend to plant your first shovel at this section. If you can't tell the anniversary, gentlemen, for at least a decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u291	Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! As we can see, for the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways, a good half-billion euro of funds is earmarked, and we can say that there is too much fast maintenance on certain sections, resulting from poor production, poor supervision and ultimately also from the zemonic agreement. The question also arises in itself who will maintain these highways. I'm afraid it'll go the same way as it did in the last bad 20 years. As we also know, construction and reconstruction in the European Union is significantly faster and cheaper. We know that there have been a lot of words about this connection from the Celovska road, which brings from Gorenjska to the tunnel, but now that we have arrived from Gorenjska, when there is almost no traffic and we use this road to avoid other roads, we see that in many words, there is a lot of criticism, after all, when the project is placed in the space when it is properly placed in the space, things change significantly. And we are back in Škofja Loka on the Bishop's Oblast, thank God, thanks to the previous government, also these governments are moving the project. I don't know who will pay for the past 20 years all those hours lost by our entrepreneurs who are driving to work to deliver services across Slovenia from the Polish Valley and beyond. But this is really hard to apologize for and I want this part to be built faster, as well as the placement of the 4th development axis itself, which today has been quite a bit of a talk. I myself have warned the former Minister of Environment and Space that these things are being placed too slowly, this was already in November, when he firmly assured me that the Infrastructural Placement Act was already ready, in line with all the resources and will be adopted by the end of 2009. But we do know he wasn't adopted. If this was the reason that the former minister, according to his own words, "stranged," was the real cause of everything else. I hope and strongly hope that this promise made to me by Mr Minister that the fourth development axis will not be removed from Slovenia's development plans, that it stands and that it is in place, because we need to be aware that it is precisely the connection of Gorenjska to Primorsko that crucial moment, especially in terms of the economy, because we know the greatest aid to the economy is to help with infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u293	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u294	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr State Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Work this year, which is planned on the highway cross, I can still say the cross, because on the development axes, except for the clean preparation nothing is going to happen, will take place mainly in Primorskie, the Markovac tunnel, for which we took three years for the works to be delivered - I don't know why - in the Gornji section this shorter section and in the lower section. There are virtually no other parts and it will be practically except from Ptuj to Krapina, towards Zagreb, where there is still one section, the other parts are virtually gone, and the highway cross with this ten corridor between Zagreb and Maribor will be virtually finished. Now I'm going to go from the other side to the developmental axis. Part of these development axes have already been found in the national programme, which is still the only one in force since the beginning of 2004, when the first bases have already been given so that these development axes can also begin to prepare. Unfortunately, we have not made much progress here. And given the fact that these works are actually running out, there is certainly a problem in construction. Of course, I do not advocate that anyone will not misinterpret the construction arrangements, either formally or informally, I do not know what it was like. This is certainly the investor's responsibility to prevent the consequences of any negotiations from being properly negotiated. A little joke, I'm really going to say that soon there won't be any negotiation control, because it's easy for the builders to have nothing to talk about, let alone do it in the end. This is certainly bad for construction as a sector and for the country as a whole. After all, the construction industry is said to be connected to 50 other industries, probably not all in the field of road construction, especially in other areas, but this is the picture. The Minister of Transport, Dr. Vlačič, was already in last January, shortly after the performance of his post, in fact, found that there were enormous problems in putting routes into space. Definitely. Real grade. It's a problem. I remember, I'm going to be a little out of practice, someone mentioned earlier that monthly coordination between ministries is needed. At the time I served at the Ministry of Transport, such coordination was at least monthly. These coordinations between the ministries of environment, transport and others are certainly necessary. There used to be five to ten sections of these sections on each foot of the Slovenian highway cross. I have a feeling that, not only in this, but also in the previous mandate, there has been a lack or lack of such coordination or acceleration in the preparation of documentation or placement into space. This law on the placement of line infrastructure facilities in space, I don't know exactly where this law is. I've been on some of the dedicated spatial planners for the past six months who have been extremely critical of this law. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm in the opposition, maybe that's why. But the spatial planners criticised the prepared law. I don't know what he's like. The former Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec told me in October that this law will certainly be in Parliament within a month if it does not, but then I should ask him the question again. It's almost May today, and this marriage is gone. I'm sure there are problems with this law. That's what I believe. It would be nice to know what the problems are and whether this law can also be expected by the National Assembly. The expectation of this law is great that it will be possible to place individual routes in a room faster to obtain suitable land and so on. I fully believe that today putting routes into space is significantly harder than it was 10 or 15 years ago. We all know that the demands of local communities and individuals in land collection or whatever in this process have been significantly hampered by the fact that these problems are significantly more difficult. That is probably why, if we want to place all these development axes in space, there is something that must be done in the field of legislation. I will not say in two years that any ministry is guilty of standing by because I understand that objective problems are such that the existing legislation obviously does not make this happen anymore. I'm going to be this year's program. After all, we're almost May, confirmed. It needs to be implemented, these shorter sections should be completed as soon as possible on the motorway cross, and I appeal for an acceleration in the placement of all these development axes into space. This has always been a problem, and I hope that even with this law, which is supposed to somehow shorten these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u295	Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u296	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would, given that I understand the highways only so much that I can drive around them, that no one would think that I want to do something smart, I would just react to some of the claims and discussions that I've heard so far. First of all, I would like to say that it is not true that only now is the 3rd development axis from Dravograd to Maribor-Ljubljana highway, but that the president of the biggest opposition party, then the Prime Minister of the Government, planted a shovel in 2006 to build this fast road, with the promise that the road will start building before the 2008 elections. Now there's only one big question, whether this shovel is so rusty, that historians like my colleague Sam Bevk will have to preserve it, or just "guard" it. And the second thing I want to explain is this zemon cartel, not the coalition, not the clan, not what I know what, but the zemon cartel -- this is what the media put out, is why the Koper-Isol tunnel invitation lasted so long that the works were dedicated, for three years, is a very clear thing. In this invitation, the zemon cartel broke its teeth. And here was the first case where they failed to reach with their agreements that the state, or in this case Dars, would pay substantially more than otherwise the construction of the tunnel is worth it. But there's something else I'd like to say. This tunnel was designed and, thanks to some people who worked in the Ministry of Transport about eight, nine years ago, was planned and systematically delayed in planning, in finding variants. And this man, who has helped so well here, is still in the state service today. Here you should ask yourself how it's possible that such people can have synecures, look to death, or something. He may be too young to receive a pension, depending on how pension laws are designed to change. I must say, we've been planning the tunnel for years, believe it or not, 1980. It's been 30 years. Slovenia's Ista built a fast road from Ankaran Crossroad to Kopra. The Istrian - three congregations alone have set aside the money to build a fast road. Only later, a long time later, did we get the money back. But in this tunnel, the native, our cousin from Slovenian Istria, helped to make his turn just now. But he certainly didn't help break his teeth. That's what those people who fought for work did, and that's why they took away his chance. And those of you who were in the Ministry of Transport, I don't think you're telling me some things about how they happened and what happened. You know, you can't just blame Dars for everything. That's impossible. I mean, it's true that Dars has his hands inside the elbows, too, he did, but in the Ministry of Transport, nobody's gonna tell me that nobody knew anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u297	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u298	If I were to be consistent with the conduct of some Members, then I should give up myself, but I will not. In the first part, I'm going to ask some questions and then I'm going to count on getting answers from the Ministry representatives and I'm going to use it as a replica because I know they won't understand the questions, the other part. I must say that after all these years and also - and I have raised a few questions when I represented the position of the Member Club - I would like answers, for example, to questions relating to the completion of works between 1994 and 2007, for which EUR 13 million is allocated under this programme, EUR 402 000, for the completion of works on sections that have been placed on the market in 2008-2009, amounting to EUR 45 million, 690 thousand. In doing so, I would simply like to ask: Will those who carried out the works with which the contracts were signed do these works on their own account, and this is what the contracts are for, and this is just an accounting operation to separate it, or is it about the fact that the sections have been put on the market, you are now rescribing and paying 45 plus 13, which is 58 million euros for things that have been put on the market from 1994 to 2007 and from 2008 to 2009? [[page 10 and page 11, with tables]] . I want a very clear answer. I will not ask how it is possible that, where the section was dedicated to the market in 1994, only now final work is being done because I am sure that there have been several times on these roads - because I am driving every day - we have done reconstruction work and we have paid for it from other titles of fine money. On these sections - this is the second item, on the other hand - we have already earmarked money to rebuild highways. But we still have the item, I repeat, from 1994 to 2007 EUR 13 million for final work. All building permits have expired. The Construction Act - yes, I participated in an item that will require a book on 400 pages to be written on how it cannot be solved from the national location plan. And in 2009, November 14th, the building law expired and we passed this year's new one. I'm just wondering how you're going to do this after this program. This is simply incomprehensible, however you consider it. I've already asked you how it's possible that you have a gas service, as it says here, Cicava's been on the program for 10 years. And this year, you've got $2 million of $700, and you're saying that you're going to do some land this year, and I don't know what, and maybe you'll start doing something this year, but you're going to do something in 2011. 2 million 700,000 euros. What for? Anyone who drives every day could see that, and the questions are asked by those who drive every day. I don't even look like that anymore. I asked earlier how the entry into the port of Koper, which was foreseen purely in the first programme, is not yet completed and is likely to be in January, February and March of the following year, because here you have a transfer to the market scheduled for December 2010. Some wind will come, some ashes will come from somewhere else, not Iceland, and you'll see that this year it won't be possible. As they said last year, the section against Dolenjska will be open in 2009. Well, earlier, the previous minister from the previous government said he would be in 2008. And I'm interested in how that is, but my question is general, because we're not going to be able to talk about all of these things today, but I'm going to announce from this program some very thorough discussion that we're going to go from item to item, because that's not possible, which I'm reading in 1994. And the connection to Luca Koper should have been made when the Ankaran slaughterhouse was the last section to open. Go look at the resolutions, go look at the annual programs and go see why this is happening. Don't tell me there's no land, there's no land, there's no land. Congratulations to Mr Genoria and Mrs Renati Brunskole, I alone ask you the following question: Have you checked who is responsible for not selling the land on the bottom? I claim that those who had contracts, Dars concluded them, but the DDC carried out the other they were subcontracting, are not in accordance with the law applicable in this country that we can reach motorways under certain conditions and acquire land within a year. Was there anything else going on here? I'll ask for those answers. You have these questions on the table, Mr Franci has asked them here several times, with names and surnames known and also legal persons. Who was the one who had a contract to buy land in this area? Who is the one who put the spatial plan in place in a congregation so that they will not give further consent and exploit and blackmail a farmer so that he cannot do so until the state gives its consent to an industrial zone or trade-industry zone? This address is too late. Someone did not do what he was supposed to do and for which he was paid, for which he was paid and had all the legal powers and grounds. I say a medal to everyone, but you have to go through this program and see what it's all about. I said before that it would be right to explain what these three and a half lines contain this million and a half euros. You have three and a half lines listed here. Tell me what you'll do this year. You end up with a loan to build up the toll system, a few 100 million euros will be subject to credit to go into the new tolling system. We have an action plan, we also have an international demand for someone who will make a call for it. Apparently, that's what the previous call for, because I'm reading in the newspapers, the one who carried out the previous action plan, demands payment from the previous title, the previous government is, I don't know, called the Rab. [[?]] That some of you won't think too much. But we have it written down here that we will pay another million and a half euros. Obviously, we haven't finished the one since before. Is there any real chance that we will get a selection of the programme this year and of the one who will start doing it or not? If that's not the case, then tell us what to do with it for a million and a half euros. It is said that a selection competition has been launched or a working group has formed that will propose the reorganization of Darsa and so on, although it says here that the Government has already adopted a decision on what it will tolerate, roads or movable property and so on or infrastructure that is there. These are all the questions I'm interested in. Especially because, according to the resources and obligations we have, it is difficult to expect a serious shift this year. But given that the question is, will we get a consent of EUR 297 million, and this is supposed to be spent on what? Read it. Half of it's for repaying credits. Half of this is for annuities or for the return of the principal. What else can we do, because there's no other money anyway. 500 million at the end of the year under this heading: apart from credit, there will be nothing, because there will be rebalans, because there will be no what, and because the tolls on this principle and compensation for the use of land on highways, and I don't know what else, my own activity, this income, as you predict, will be shown for the first three months, will not be. And that's the key question. And in the end, I will vote for the guarantee, too, I am sure, because I believe that things are moving forward and that this government will start to work better. But the questions are very serious. I have completed the figures, namely, 297 million you want guarantees, and this is not a serious programme, because it would probably make sense to come here earlier and ask whether you will give consent in this National Assembly for 300 million euros or 297 million so that we can implement this programme or not. And if you have this guarantee, then you can actually plan it. I believe I'll vote for this guarantee, too, but the numbers are falling apart. Like I said, I'll save two minutes for further questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u299	Mr. Janez Fishich. [[He's not here.]] And finally a representative of the proposer, Vlada. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u300	Thank you very much. A number of questions have been raised, as well as some claims that can only be said here today, that they have not all been precise. If I try to sum it up from the beginning, what was said today. The impressions and that we have the most expensive motorways in Slovenia when compared with other countries of the European Union. The calculation shows that we have a value of about €10 million per kilometre, which is in line with the average of the European Union. The second thing is the obvious, which was at the very beginning, that taxpayers were paying for the construction of highways. Looking at the period from 2004 onwards, 800 million were paid out of the budget, and 3.2 billion were leased loans provided by Dars. Dars provided this from the tolls. This ratio, if you go to the grave calculation, 80:20 in favor of Dars, servicing the liabilities by Dars. The practice of paying all taxpayers may be somewhat premature. As far as compliance with construction deadlines is concerned. When we are talking about the construction of motorway sections that need to be completed this year, the timetable is still valid today, and all the sections listed in this programme will also, today, be able to say so, meet the obligations. From now on to the day that we have to put this on the market, there can be many more. To this day, once again, the clock is still as it is set to date, and the opening hands hold, so fear that we will not meet what is written in it this year, I think it is also unnecessary. There was also talk of developmental axes. I'm going to use the word development axis, not the 3rd development axis, like some of you, because I think it's right to talk about all the development axes. The problem that arises and the fear that has arisen today and has been repeatedly expressed is that there will be no funding. I think I already told the Transport Committee that we are also looking for new sources of funding to introduce a public-private partnership system. I am pleased to say that there is quite a bit of interest in funding in such a public-private partnership system. Yesterday we hosted foreign representatives of financial institutions who were interested in this and very seriously want to join us in this system. Further, perhaps a few words about tolls. It was obvious what we were going to spend 250 million dollars on tolls. The plan makes it very clear that 160 remains in the title of the collected tolls, because these 250s, which have been mentioned today, do not take into account the overhead costs and all the other things that need to be serviced, that Dars is living as an economic society, because Dars is not just living to convert credits and not the rest. As far as anti-group shields are concerned. I really thank you for all these well-intentioned comments that we do not have anti-group protections on Stuck and on Unco and so on. But there's one thing that surprises me, and unfortunately, I can't get past not saying it. In 2008, it was stated that there was a problem of anti-group protection on Unc, and I am asking myself a question because I cannot ask others why it was not solved at the time. Why was this to be postponed to the following year, or is it possible for the next term, which is the easiest? The question raised by Mr Weber concerning the State Spatial Plan for the Šmarje-Sap Connection. According to the Ministry of Environment and Space, this is expected to be completed by the end of this year. This is the information I have, but the drafter of the State Spatial Plan is the Ministry of Environment and Space. I'm afraid I can't give more of this information right now. As for the questions raised at the end, however, they were very comprehensive. There were quite a few of them. I'll try to do the right thing. I'd be very happy if you would really join us at the Ministry to go through the questions you've predicted, because I'm sure the answers will not be enough for you. First, as regards the completion of parts of the 1994-2007 period, then for periods since then. The money provided for in the plan is primarily for the repair of sections because this money is not intended here or, I apologize, repairs to these sections do not go to performers, but Dars is obliged to do so. Secondly, it is a matter of further regulation of these sections, in particular concerning various habitats and the regulation of land-books matters. These, too, are not all arranged, and it is also necessary to arrange for the matter to be brought into a state as it should be. As far as the petrol service of Cikava is concerned - you asked what the problem is, why is this being carried? Maybe we're not the right address for this. The problem that happens there is archaeology and it solves every year there, I hope it will be settled. The entrance to the port of Koper, a problem that arises, is multilayered. Land acquisition is one problem that has not yet been settled, another problem, which is the regulation of that part of the infrastructure that is in the Luka Koper domain. This has not been regulated, and even in previous years, it has not made sense to regulate this work, and that is why it is now appearing inside. If Luke does not do his job and the country does its work, these two infrastructures are not connected together, they are not functional. This also leads to these distractions. I agree, as you said it should have been years ago. However, if the two sides are not caught, the infrastructure ends in the ground or in the field. The last question is about the toll system. The amount referred to in the programme shall be intended for the selection of the operator for the preparation of the investment and technical documentation. What you have already mentioned is not exactly a problem related to this, but this amount, which is intended to be inside, is only to make this year's choice of contractor for this documentation that I have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u302	Look, we've been getting along a little bit, but not in part. The answers were, to the extent possible, in place. At the same time, 2 million 700 thousand for an archaeological platform, which has already been excavated six times, was excavated in 1958. Yeah, sure, go check it out, 'cause I've looked at it a couple of times. There's an anti-group fence that was built in 2007, 2008, go look, sir whispers to you because it was there, and someone is now sending [[?]] . Yeah, that's right, I got the previous data on Dars, 1 meter thousand euros. Go take a look over there at the part about how many of these anti-group fences there are over each other. And you will also find out who ordered it, why he ordered it right there and why not elsewhere. But that's not my intention to argue with it. That's exactly the right information. I am only giving you an initiative, but I will certainly continue to develop these issues to raise a question here, because we did not understand each other here - and this is a replica that we would not, Presidents, think that I am moving away from the subject - that it is difficult to understand when we are talking about the 1994-2007 period, that we will give 13 million euros this year to complete. If anything needs to be fixed, there are probably guarantees, Dars has guarantees to perform quality works and so on, as it is done, and it probably comes from this title. Since you still have 45 million left in this title, that's a lot of money. And that needs to be explained to everyone, I'm not gonna tell the taxpayers, the ones we drive on these roads, and we're paying what we pay. But, as I say, I will support this program.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u303	Anyone else want a word? A representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Since all of you have been given the floor by all the speakers you wanted, and because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I see one hand, two. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u305	You have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u306	Yes, thank you very much for those five minutes. I had previously pointed out that legislation should be amended on the basis of the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and that this legislation is observable, since the first documents belong or belong in the period around 1995. As part of the amendment to this legislation, the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted in 2004, and in this context also the programme for the construction of motorways for the period 2003-2013, as part of the development of connecting roads under the motorway programme or under an additional motorway programme, should be supplemented, and this programme should also include these development axes, which we have discussed so much today. So 3A, 3rd development axis, 4th development axis. However, there is clearly no money for the development axes, so the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, to which we have already been referred by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, to the opinion on this report that we are discussing today. There is also talk of building development axes to establish a so-called public-private partnership for the construction of development axes and to make these development axes pay. This raises a number of questions: whether these pay-as-you-go development axes are going to be four lanes, what will be the height of these tolls - probably significantly lower than now the benefits of driving on highways, or whether they will be new routes along existing state roads. This, on the other hand, will also put a great burden on the space in the Republic of Slovenia. It is hard to imagine that the fourth development axis would be a fully paying road, because I don't know how to say Idria next to this existing road. But if this only road were to be paid, then it is said that we could only come to Idria on a paying road, and no other way. It is said that, at the possible introduction of the so-called public-private partnership for the construction of development axes, very many questions are raised and perhaps, if the Ministry representatives are willing to comment, what direction are their thoughts going, that we will finally get to our country to start building development axes, which we have also talked about in this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u307	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u308	Thank you so much for saying that again. Mr. Vice President, all present! I have not received an earlier reply from the Secretary of State on the subject, what colleague Bevk has already pointed out twice, this law, or even legislation, on the construction of motorways, whether it be putting routes into space or other, property-legal matters, which must be dealt with in parallel. I'm not the one who says everything's wrong now. The last term was great. I know that this problem is broad, that this problem, which is the problem of all of us, and all of us, and so on, is a lot of discipline and ultimately even one policy, a lot of everything. I have previously stressed that the sure placement of routes into space today is significantly more problematic, more difficult, more difficult than it has been so many years and so many years ago. That's one question. In view of the fact that I have listened to a number of comments from experts, spatial planners, etc., who oppose this law, you are certainly aware of this fact in both ministries. The second question, as discussed in the media and even in today's debate, is the negotiation between the construction people. Here I have a simple question whether anyone will try to make an analysis of what kind of damage is actually going on. Here are the amounts definitely coming to mind, which, of course, the media then carry, from a billion, today was 2 billion, one of the colleagues today said 4 billion already. It would certainly be the easiest thing to say that the difference in injury is that, so the final calculation of the highway cross minus the national programme in 1994, which was by half smaller, the difference is, someone would say, and the damage. I'm sure we shouldn't be talking about someone being called in to try to make a real assessment, if that's even possible. I wanted an answer about this marriage in the first place. However, I myself agree, and the Legal and Legislative Service has been pointing out this for 15 years now, as little as I am following this issue, it points out that it is necessary to work on renewals or new changes to national programmes, which, when adopted, are in reality in a few years, but not in the light of different circumstances. And these comments are always made by the Legislative and Legal Service, and even in this House they are repeated again and again every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u309	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The decision on the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the annual plan will be held in half an hour, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 16th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u310	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on funeral activities and the management of burial sites, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on funeral activity and the management of burial sites is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 45, against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - discusses the draft law on amendments and supplements to the Plant Health Act, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 3. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted for 60 to 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members with a first-signed mag. Merry Christmas to Article 16. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. It's a crane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the purpose of this law at this time was to start some of the prevention activities in the first instance of ambrosia, which is one of the most allergenic plants, as well as some other important allergen plants, for this season. In response to my question or initiative in November 2009, the Ministry then stated that by the next flowering period of this type, the Interdepartmental Group would have prepared a set of appropriate measures following the example of countries where they already have an active ambrosia control policy and made it available to the public with appropriate material and in an appropriate manner. I count that the ministry has already done a lot in this area since November, virtually the beginning of May. My assessment is that the 60-day deadline for the practical implementation of this law is a long enough time, a good time for us to enforce the law and that we are already doing some work this year to prevent ambrosia. This was also the purpose of doing certain activities this year. I know, and I'm aware that probably all activities won't be able to take off in the first season, so it'll probably take a few seasons. But it's only right that we start this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 32. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 3 and 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group? Check-in is on. On behalf of the Group, Mr Mag has the floor. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I have already said in the previous paragraph, the basic purpose of this Act or the amendment of the Plant Health Act is primarily to act quickly and effectively to prevent the further spread of ambrosia, which is one of the most allergenic plants and is also spreading extremely rapidly and causes serious health problems to many people, especially young people. In addition, of course, it causes damage in agriculture, as a result in the economy and so on. I believe that some countries, our neighbouring countries, already have this problem regulated, both in Hungary, and that they are also successfully confronted in Croatia, and that this plant, a foreign plant, has come to us from these areas, from Hungary, Croatia, to spread to us from the West, it is right to start systematically destroying this plant in the sense of preventing the unloving problems that many people have, especially because they are allergic to the pollen of this plant. I appeal today to MEPs and Members, to the good of course those who have problems with this plant or with the pollen of this plant, to support this law and to start systematically destroying this plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Mrs. Pechanova, please. [[The ad in the hall.]] I don't know who has a procedural proposal. One of you, raise your hand. Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u315	Thank you. Presidents, we are in third reading, but I did not see any of the candidates propose that a third hearing be held at the same meeting. In my opinion, today we cannot vote on the adoption of the law in the third reading because no one has proposed it. Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure: "If, in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the National Assembly may, at the proposal of the proposer, decide that, at the same meeting, it will carry out a third examination of the draft law if more than a third of the Members present do not object."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u316	As announced, the law was proposed after a reduced procedure and the procedure is therefore to be followed by a reduced procedure at the same meeting without that proposal. That's why we kept doing this. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u317	Explanation of the vote on the adoption of the law in third reading. As I have already said in the second reading at the time of the amendment to Article 16, I would like to reiterate that such a law, which has the subject of destroying a foreign plant called ambrosia or a plant from the family of ambrosia, which is located in the wrong law and also in the wrong area, should be proposed by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is a topic that deals with foreign plants and at the same time these alien plants are harmful to human health. That's one. Another time. The explanation of the law did not state the financial consequences at all. At the same time, it is also necessary to say that the most financial consequences will be felt by the fourth ministry, the Ministry of Transport, about a million euros. They don't have this money in their budget, and this year they're supposed to start working on it. The third reason is that unsanitary and immoral things have been going on in connection with this law, and that makes it all the more right to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u318	Mr. Franci Kek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u319	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this law and I think it is right to adopt it today, because the problems caused by ambrosia are great and it is imperative that we adopt this law as soon as possible. The financial implications have been identified and I do not mind if this law has been proposed by the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-22-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u320	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on referendum and on human initiative is appropriate for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you that in accordance with Article 90, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members present are necessary for the adoption of this Decision. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Annual Plan for the Real Estate of the State, worth more than EUR 300,000 per year, for the authorities of the state administration and for the judicial authorities for 2010. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 11. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing a Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the amendments to the motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. The vote is under way. 61 Members and Members voted in favour, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - consideration of the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Restoration of Motorways We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly agrees to the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways adopted by the Government at its 25th meeting. 2. 2010 We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 60 votes in favour and 60 votes in favour, 49 against 11. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens, under the ordinary procedure The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 20th. 4. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Safety Act, under the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 20th. 4. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the National Assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 55. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Anybody want a word? We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 11. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
