ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The President of the National Assembly has authorized me to deliver the following message. As the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly is not yet concluded, the start of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will be postponed by half an hour. So the start of today's extraordinary session will be at 10:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franci Kek, whom I see in the Chamber, Miran Jerič, Milan Gumzar from 16:00 on, mag. Andrea Richter from 14:00 on, Bojan Kontic from 17:00 on, only Bevk from 17:00 on and Silva Črnugelj from 18.30 on. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to session 23. 6. 2010 I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, this is the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia's budget for 2010 for the rebalancing of the budget. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor to present the proposal for the 2010 budget rebalancing. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u3	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of the High Council! Recently, I was in a hurry on the European Council, and I find it impossible to predict with any certainty the near-improvement of the economic situation. All the problems Slovenia has are also the problems of the European Union. What kind of positive encourages me is the fact that the problems that Slovenia has, in particular the more dynamic part of the economy and the countries of the European Union, are the problems that Slovenia has. The overall public deficit was around 7% of GDP at European Union level in 2007. Debt increased from 59 to almost 80 % during the same period. Slovenia is among countries with relatively low nominally relatively low debt. This is 35% – the first important number for today's debate, because public debt and the issue of competitiveness, with the objective of fiscal consolidation, are the two most important objectives that we target through measures. The balance is one of them. It is therefore necessary to know that the macroeconomic situation in the European economy has deteriorated, although a number of measures have improved in some ways in last year, but remain uncertain. Finally, this is why we will be discussing today the Greek Guarantee Act and the decision to set up a company worth €440 billion to help countries in the euro area make it easier to get through economic problems. It's an introduction. Slovenia is one of those countries in the European Union that has relatively successfully survived the first year of the dramatic fall in GDP. That is also what the European Commission notes. There will be some differences between us or this task could be done faster, better, more effectively. This will always be discussed and, to remember later, I have one proposal. I think that we are at that stage of the development of the country's anti-crisis action when we are witnessing some of the successes that we have achieved, but we must have full respect for this duty in the face of some of the tasks that await us. My proposal is that Members and Members, or their representatives, parliamentary parties or their representatives, whether they belong to a coalition or to the opposition, once again sit together to discuss the economic situation in Europe and with us and that we may decide on what common measures await us. If the opposition is prepared to accept such a proposal, the government party is also prepared to accept it. I suggest we meet before summer vacations and see what we can do together. There are reasons why political will, on the one hand and on the other, would not have been a year smaller than could have been useful, but would not have prolonged this insistence, at least as far as the government side is concerned. If opposition parties are ready to meet with the government and look together at some of the plans we have, we are ready to organise such a meeting before summer holidays. Not because the government was in some kind of decision-making crisis, but because we've been through the most painful part. I think we've been through it successfully and we're at one point now that we have to decide what we're going to do. We have very clear tasks. With the balance now under consideration, we want to keep the deficit at a level that is still acceptable, that is 5%. Okay. We want to implement structural reforms at this time: pension, health, wages, we want to modernise the public sector. They're not easy jobs. Can we take part in this? We want to look at the possibilities for improving the business environment with foreign investment. Can we cooperate? In short, the proposal I make, France and the rest will later explain the budget balance more precisely, this political message seems important to me right now. We are in a situation where, in my view, the Government is relatively successful in regulating the economic recovery process. Our goal is to consolidate public finances and increase competitiveness. We know exactly what the path leads to. We believe that some can be achieved through social dialogue, and some by social compromise probably not, although they are urgent and inevitable. If, in so far as there is room for dialogue at least within the policy framework, we are prepared to do so. I'd like to say a few things. In today's debate, there will probably be some criticism at the expense of lowering the expenditure side of the investment budget. In the 2010 budget adopted, expenditure is planned for investments and transfers of around €700. Taking into account the reduction of €390 million proposed in the 2010 rebalancing, investments together with transfers will still amount to €280 million, an increase of €183 million or 0.5% of GDP compared to the 2009 implementation. Therefore, although investments in the proposal for a rebalancing are declining, it should be said that the share of investment funds will still be 3.7% of GDP, still more than in 2006, 3.2% in 2009, and 2.5% in 2008, 2007, 2004 and 2006. To get back to the point before I give my word to the finance minister so that the balance sheet can be presented more precisely. Some countries in the world are growing at an exceptional rate of economic growth. In Europe, that doesn't work. We have a social state, so we need to take care of social cohesion. This is not necessary for other countries outside the European Union. Slovenia has the same problem. But not only do we not want to, we must not exclude the environmental and social element from sustainable development. It is therefore necessary to examine, ladies and gentlemen, how, when we remain committed to sustainable development, this is also a social and environmental element that is competitive in international markets. This is not working in Europe today. Slovenia is also within this Europe. Slovenia has not deteriorated significantly according to parameters. Many have improved compared to some other countries within the euro area, but there is still a lot of room for manoeuvre. I said that the modernisation of the public sector here is the most important concern of the state, and we must go to pension reform, health reform and the public sector wage system. I think that we can do this even with one increased dialogue within the opposition and the coalition, especially because I hear that the opposition is preparing some measures that will be judged to be measures that the Government does not have. That is not true, and we have them, and we want them to be judged by this high congregation. Slovenia was relatively good in 2009. We have made sure that people have not paid the high price of the economic crisis. In 2010, we want to improve competitiveness because we cannot service social transfer expenditure in the long term. We want to make order and discipline in social transfers, to actually target people who are in social trouble. All of this is happening. Rebalance is just one of the instruments we have ahead of us, keeping the deficit below a level that is still acceptable. Our wish is to halve the public financial deficit in 2013. During this time, we need to implement structural reforms and, most importantly, we must also modernise the public sector. This will be difficult because we have public sector unions that have their own perspective on this issue. The job's not easy, but I think we can pull it off. I think it'll be easier if we take them out together after all this time. On the government side, this readiness is, but if it is, by the opposition, perhaps it will be so much easier for us to achieve something by working together. Now I invite Minister Križanič to present the rebalancing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Please, the Minister of Finance has the floor, dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the current balance, together with the change and in excise legislation, is part of Slovenia's conflict with the latest phase of the economic crisis in the world. If I were to say that the first phase was an over-expansive fiscal policy at global level, a trend from 2002 to 2007, then the crisis followed the real estate market crisis in mid-2007, first in the United States and then spread through the collapse of credit and risk assessment, so-called Credit Kranch, forward until 2008, when the Lehman Brothers broke down, the failure to remedy this problem, and then the total freeze of the credit market falls, the demand for economic activity, the growth of unemployment and then the coordinated response for the first time in history at global level, and more so on European expansionary fiscal policies. In this policy, for the first time, we have increased the deficit; for the second time, by appropriate fiscal financial sector measures, both through guarantee schemes and through direct deposits, we have prevented the sector from breaking down. Then we ensured the growth of the credit activity and with the actions of the KAD subsidiary, the special companies for restructuring the Slovenian export and development companies, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the technology agencies, enabled the economy to start technologically and commercially rebuilding and preparing a breakthrough for the period after the start of economic growth. At the same time, measures on the labour market have prevented the spread of poverty and a significant increase in unemployment. All of this has led to a deficit. Last year, around 5.7%, as well as other cash registers, were consolidated not only on a narrower country and in the current crisis of fiscal stability and the bond market crisis, we are also implementing the establishment of a lender at the last level in the European Union. Currently, we have two laws in the process where Slovenia joins the most developed countries that are acting. At the same time, we are bridging the deficit to give the market a clear signal that we are managing the deficit and that we are a credible borrower. In doing so, we do not ignore actions for developmental conversion. We continue to encourage research and development, the introduction of new technologies and new businesses and, with tax reliefs from corporate incomes, we also further enable the developmental activity of existing successful companies. If we're going to the rebalancing, then there's a reason to prepare this rebalancing next to the basic systemic signal that we're capable of controlling our fiscal position, more. These are new worse forecasts. Different trends in some key categories of tax revenue and also the inclusion of aid to Greece. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development informed the Government already in April of the new macroeconomic baselines, which are the basis for both the preparation of the 2010 State budget balance and the 2011 state budget changes and the preparation of the 2012 state budget. The fact is that the updated macroeconomic baselines are exacerbating the macro-economic picture and thus the public financial situation for this year and for the coming years. The aid to Greece, which will be implemented in accordance with the agreement of all the Eurogroup Member States, also requires Slovenia to draw up a national budget balance, as in the context of the B-balance sheet, the balance of financial claims and investments, some 140 million euros should be provided for a given loan to Greece. It is important to point out that aid to Greece will not increase our budget deficit and, as a result of aid, the state budget will not be further indebted as transfers will be made within the country's deposits. The updated estimates of individual key categories of government budget revenue by the end of 2010 show that the projected revenue of the State budget for 2010 will be around 541 million and 1.5% lower than those planned in the adopted budget. The revenue shortfall is particularly high in the corporate income tax, as it amounts to EUR 281 million. When we were preparing the 2010 revenue estimates, we estimated that, already with such reduced advances for 2008, there could be no high returns actually made in April and May this year, there was and subsequently there was also a coincidence of this tax adjustment for this year. Taking into account all relevant factors and recent estimates and the latest forecasts of Death, as shown in the spring report, tax revenues for 2010 range to around €6 billion and €500 million. The lower implementation of budgetary revenues in 2010 is most affected by the lower realisation of revenues at the end of 2009, the new macroeconomic forecasts for 2010 and higher returns and the further reduction of corporate income tax. The budget deficit, like the share of GDP, would only increase in 2010 due to new, lower nominal estimates of GDP, namely, the budget deficit, with the same estimates of revenue and the same expenditure as in the budgets adopted, nominally equivalent to, that is, a billion of €826 million as planned, and the share of GDP would be 5.2% and not 5% as planned at its adoption. With the measures in place on the revenue side and the proposed reduction in expenditure, the budget deficit will be nominally reduced by €60 million and, as the share of GDP slips slightly below 5% or, after rounding, it will remain at 5%. In the proposal for a rebalancing, expenditure is reduced by €600 million, of which €431 million in integrated, domestic work. The earmarked funds are falling by €34 million, and budget users have also re-examined the feasibility of projects funded from the EU and are falling by € 135 million this year in terms of the highly ambitious funds planned this year. Wages and contributions are falling by €18 million in this context. The budgetary users have re-checked wage calculations and, for all those where it has been found that funds exceed the required level, they are being reduced. So far, new additional measures, which would call for negotiations on public sector unions for 2010, are not foreseen for this year, but this is necessary and a projection will be envisaged for 2011 and 2012. It should be pointed out that a large part of wage action is already included in the adopted budget, namely the third and fourth quarters closure of wage imbalances on 1 October 2010 and 1 October 2011. The overall harmonisation of wages for only half of the price growth, the abolition of regular work performance, the reduction of labour performance for increased labour volume, the regression of €692 per employee in the public sector, which is less than if the regress were to grow in line with the arrangements. Expenditure on goods and services is reduced by €71 million after the rebalancing. In this context, expenditure on goods services is also reduced by EUR 20 million for special materials and services, namely the military and the police. The total estimated amount of expenditure on goods and services is below the realisation level for 2008 and 2009. Implementation in 2008 was €864 million in the proposal for a rebalancing of €823 million, or 95% of the implementation for 2008 and 98% of the implementation for 2009, and this is where the savings are quite sharp. Investments and integrated transfers are declining by €390 million, of which €45 million is the Ministry of Transport's earmarked funds. In the 2010 budget adopted, expenditure is planned for investments and investment transfers amounting to €670 million. Taking into account the reduction proposed in the 2010 rebalancing proposal, investments together with investment transfers will amount to €280 million or €390 million less than planned and still more than in previous years. If we did not want to interfere with the rights of individuals and to further reduce salaries and pensions in 2010 with the State budget, it was only possible to reduce the funds earmarked for investment and investment transfers. Changes in the area of individual rights would have been earlier wanted to be aligned with the social partners, and it was not possible to do so in the short term as we had thought to draw up the balance. In addition, it should be mentioned once again that certain amendments or measures have already been prepared and are also included in the 2010 adopted budget. I have explained the area of salaries, and it must also be said that pensions and other transfers to individuals this year will be aligned with half of what has been envisaged. For pensions – half the increase in wages and transfers of individuals – half the increase in prices. The next category to be reduced is the reduction of interest payments by EUR 30 million. Due to the successful issuance of two bonds in the first quarter of this year, the interest paid in advance and the costs of issuing both bonds were significantly lower than anticipated in the preparation of the 2010 budget. We therefore estimate that the interest payments made at the end of this year will be around 30 million lower than foreseen in the 2010 adopted budget. The funds for transfers in the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and Pensions are also being reduced. The necessary provision of state budget resources for this cash register is reflected in the higher wage growth this year, which was foreseen in the preparation of this year's budget, which can be reduced by EUR 25 million on the basis of 5 months of implementation and the latest estimates. Payments to the European budget are further reduced. The main reason for the possible or probable reduction of the expenditure to be paid to the European budget is in the lower assessment of the duties collected. 75% of these tariffs go forward in the EU budget. The second reason is the lower assessment of the nominal gross domestic product, resulting from new macroeconomic baselines and changes to the European budget for 2010. Dear Members and Members! It is important that we know and can be able to react in these times, which I can say are very difficult, in time and in good time. We must be aware that by reducing our expenditure, with very reduced fiscal capacity due to the last tax reform not followed by structural change on the expenditure side, we will slightly reduce our budget deficit by €60 million and signal to the developed world that we are responsible and stable. I believe that, with this awareness, you will also support the proposal before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The draft budget balance was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Member of Renata Brunskola. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Mr President, honourable President of the Government with ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the proposal for a rebalancing at its 24th urgent meeting on 30 June. The Committee received amendments from Mr Lászlá Göncz, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and the Transport Committee, as an interested working body. The Committee was informed by the following interested working bodies: the Commission on Public Finance Control, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Transport, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the Committee on Health, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Commission on National Communities and the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, which took note of the proposal for a rebalancing and, with the exception of the Committee on Transport, did not formulate and adopt their amendments. In the debate on the proposed rebalancing, members of the opposition's committee made critical assessments of the proposed rebalancing, which concerned first the perception of the conceptual error of the balance and the irregular and incorrect action of the Government. It was pointed out that at the time of the financial and economic crisis, which had led to a significant deterioration in the economic situation, the resulting decline in economic activity and gross social product would be expected to result in timely action by the Government, including in the direction of changes to the decisions taken by the previous government. It was also pointed out that the obvious underlying reason for the proposed rebalancing was the fall in economic activity, which led to a lower inflow of budget revenues from corporate income taxes. In terms of the correctness of the Government's action, measures would be expected to promote economic activity and the Government would take measures to reduce investment and, on the other hand, increase excise duties. This does not solve the problem of excessive deficits, according to the opinion of the opposition Members, but only temporary delays in the future and economic activity will continue to decline. The anticipated increase in excise duties also contributes to this, which reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and reduces the standard or purchasing power of the population. It was pointed out that there was a half-second year for social dialogue, and the government did not take advantage of this in order to reach deeper into the public sector now. The further need for all functions, both ministries and public institutions, should be verified and this sector should be restructured as a result. It was also pointed out that the amount of budget expenditure, now in times of crisis, far exceeds that of the period of conjuncture or, as was said, the periods of fat cows. Among other things, a large number of inefficient institutions have been highlighted, as well as additional reserves on the expenditure side, in particular in the area of material costs and inaction of the Government in the area of rent regulation for government services. In the discussion of the members of the Committee on Finance of the coalition groups, in whose view the proposed rebalancing provides adequate funding for budgetary expenditure in the current crisis period, it was stressed, inter alia, that the amount of certain expenditure in the public sector is indeed worrisome, but that the reasons that affect these movements should be taken into account. Additional employment was also mentioned for the fulfilment of standards, for example in kindergartens, employment in the military, justice and police, where staff are understaffed, as well as the impact of wage reform in the public sector in 2008. An assessment was made that the planned reduction of investments at this time may be the least painful measure. The remaining spending cuts will be current as part of the debate on the draft amendments to the already adopted budget for the coming year. The growth of economic activity is also affected by the increase in production, and some budgetary expenditure is therefore being increased. In the wake of the opposition's apparent significant increase in budgetary expenditure during the crisis compared to budget expenditure during the period of the merger, it was pointed out that the obligations imposed by the previous government were being fulfilled. The Committee identified itself to the amendments and supported the amendments of the Committee on Transport and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. However, the Committee did not support any of the other amendments tabled and did not identify up to two amendments to the Transport Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Communities will be presented by Dr. László Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u9	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, as well as within the national communities, we are aware that, given the actual circumstances in our society and economy, the 2010 budget balance is necessary or necessary. In particular, due to the marked reduction in planned revenues and other financial problems, for which we may be to some extent guilty ourselves, which have affected us as a result of the still considerable and unpredictable economic and financial crisis, the situation also needs to be rectified by a rebalance at least to some extent. Unfortunately, this is no different than by reducing certain items on the expenditure side of the State budget. Taking into account the seriousness of the financial situation, we also expressed our support for the budget balance at the meeting of the Commission for National Communities. We stress that in the situation as we have seen it today, it is particularly important that informed and informed decisions are taken when preparing and adopting the budget balance. As a representative of the national community in this high assembly, I will not go into depth into the basic substantive issues of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Issues such as the assessment of the appropriateness of the size of the decommissioning on the expenditure side and its content structure have been opened in the past days in the circles of experts and also at meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly. On the basis of quite a variety of opinions from the professional public, I only raise the question of the appropriateness of a significant interference in investment items, particularly because this makes a lot of impact on economic growth and indirectly on the social security or the risk to the population. I have no doubt that many more questions and many opinions will be raised in this regard today, but I hope, or I would like to believe, that this is precisely the aspect that the Government has carefully considered and decided on the basis of sustainable arguments or at least on the basis of the principle of choosing a more favourable option. Following the presentation of the Group's position, I will focus on the aspect or dimension of the proposed budget rebalancing that relates directly or indirectly to the national community. As I have mentioned several times in recent days, it is important to point out that, despite the extremely difficult state of public finances, the Government has respected its promise in most cases, and in the area of financing programmes or activities of indigenous national communities, in addition to the exception I will present, there has been no financial cuts. We can see that in the 2010 budget, the amounts guaranteed for 2010 remain, even after the adoption of the proposed balance, on the so-called nationality item. This kind of corrective approach by the Government needs to be welcomed here. However, some important aspects that will need to be taken into account in the future, in designing or reshaping budgets for the coming years should be noted. In such a sensitive area as the existence and activity of indigenous national communities, it is very important that, despite the general financial trends of the company, objective possibilities, in addition to maintaining the development of these communities, are made possible, and this is not sufficient for several years, in the context of a nominally identical provision of individual financial scales for a longer period. In view of the general financial situation in the last two years, several projects remain open or unresolved, in particular certain investment programmes in the national mixed area on the coast and in Prekmurje, and in the area of infrastructure that is particularly important in those areas in terms of providing favourable or at least equivalent housing conditions. There are also some envisaged creative programmes with added value in certain content areas of the national communities. Even on this occasion, it must be pointed out that, despite repeated warnings in the area of providing economic basis to national communities, we have not been able to take a step forward, even in recent times this area has unfortunately gone a bit backwards. Despite the formal agreement, I believe that there are still some reserves here, and I also call on the executive branch of the authorities to pay the necessary attention to this issue. I would also like to draw attention to the urgency or need for a more intensive approach in the field of a more objective analysis of the state of the indigenous national community, and in particular to the urgent upgrading of minority legislation, which, despite the promises made by the Government or government parties in the coalition treaty, is unfortunately being implemented too slowly, as we have repeatedly pointed out. We are convinced in the national community that, with certain substantive additions to legislation or its proposed upgrades, many times without any additional burden on the budget, which is not intended, can also come up with better, particularly more transparent solutions from a financial point of view. It does not refer directly to today's content, however, I think it is worth mentioning that in recent times in the Slovenian political and media space or in certain such circles the subject of some untransparent, unfounded and also inaccurate comparisons of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities with the Slovenian communities in place. Without deepening this issue, this time let me just be an subjective assessment that the two communities in question express maximum, moral and political support for all efforts in favour of the Croatian Slovenian community. There is no doubt that we can feel the most and assess their distress and difficulties with certain problematic situations and the negative trends they are experiencing, so we are also working together as closely as possible with them. It is also necessary to accept the fact that, despite the principle and law-abiding Slovenian minority policy, including indigenous national communities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we are dealing with extremely pressing demographic, systemic and substantive problems. In the context of yesterday's Reactions to RTV Slovenia, with more than 20%, unfortunately a constant decline in our community, in the 10 year statistical period, from one population count to the next, we could also be said to be saying and quoting, "to die for meals". I only mention this because of a reminder of the current minority problem, which is unique and specific and always current in the case of all communities, which must not be ignored even in difficult economic and financial circumstances. This is true for Slovenia, although it has done a great deal in this area in recent decades, as well as for neighbouring and other countries in this geographical area. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the problem that has made one of the two amendments that I have tabled in relation to the proposed balance. Unfortunately, the proposal for a rebalancing also foresees a reduction in resources in the completion of the bilingual primary school investment in Lendava, a change in the starting amount that was adopted a few years ago, which is rather unusual and in addition to the concrete negative financial consequences, is also a problem of principled nature. It is most controversial that none of the competent authorities, nor the Commission for National Communities, have talked about this in terms of the specificity of such projects. This is a primary issue in the national mixed area, where one of the indigenous communities lives, and therefore we would expect that the conduct of this matter to be appropriate or in the context, as Mr President of the Government and the competent minister, to be consistently stressed. In this general part of the presentation of positions, I do not wish to make the matter more concrete, but I expect an appropriate solution to this issue or to support the amendment by Members and Members, despite the principled rejection of the position of the competent working body and of the Government. At the same time, I draw attention to some of the general problems in the system of financing such projects, which are either of a legal and systemic nature or arise from the diversity of interpretations of certain legal provisions or their inadequacy. I therefore call on the Government, or its competent services, to proceed to a systemic improvement as soon as possible in this regard, in cooperation with the national communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u11	Thank you, President. Mr President of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The 2010 budget rebalancing is prepared on the basis of lower forecasts of economic growth for this year, i.e. for 2010. Despite lower forecasts, a positive atmosphere needs to be maintained at 0.6% of economic growth. We are in a period of economic recovery where we need to act particularly prudently. Greece was in a debt crisis, the negative effects of the Greek crisis were passed on to Portugal and Spain, and the reduction of credit ratings and incentives for those countries' indebtedness made their recovery worse. It was necessary to act and the members of the euro area have acted to preserve the euro. The risk of transferring these effects to other Member States has been limited. Slovenia has avoided problems such as those of Portugal and Spain. Many point out that the loan to Greece is a direct aid to that country for grants. In doing so, it is deliberately overlooked that we are essentially saving the euro and the euro area and, consequently, our situation in the future. There are reserves in the balance sheet to help Greece, which do not increase the deficit because it is only a loan to Greece. It is true, however, that the fiscal rules of the Member States of the European Union will need to be amended within the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact, which allowed Greece to owe 60% of gross domestic product over the convergence criterion. It is worth mentioning that due to the loan to Greece, the country's gross debt will not increase as the Government will redistribute the funds it has already acquired in the past to finance its liabilities and to ensure the liquidity of the financial system. The government increased its deposits to banks in 2009 from EUR 1.4 billion and to EUR 3.5 billion in 2008. The main reason for the rebalancing is therefore lower economic growth, which has reduced the tax revenues of the state budget by almost €525 million. Action must be taken to prevent an increase in deficits. In order to strengthen Slovenia's credit rating, it is necessary to commit the state to fiscal prudence in the medium and long term and to stable examples for the future. The government is aware of that. It has drawn up a budget rebalancing which reduces budget expenditure by an additional EUR 600 million and is preparing structural measures that will be taken into account in the 2011 budget changes and the 2012 budget and will allow for the long-term sustainability of public finances. Despite the higher fall in revenue, a reduction in expenditure, which is 60 million higher than the fall in revenue, is proposed in the rebalancing, which will reduce the budget deficit by 0.2% of gross domestic product. On the basis of this fact, the budget deficit will be below 5% of the gross social product and the deficit of the wider sector of the country will be 5.7% of the gross domestic product, which means that Slovenia's deficit will be below the average of the euro and the EU area. The proposed reduction of the deficit in the budget balance is in line with the deficit reduction policy by 2013, below 3 % of the gross domestic product. However, the proposal to reduce the deficit is in line with the recommendations made to implement fiscal exit strategies, mainly based on a reduction of expenditure. The proposed 2010 budget balance has already been assessed by the European Commission, and this is positive. This supports Slovenia's commitment to achieve its fiscal targets of 1.25% of gross domestic product, despite poorer conditions than expected. The Government is well aware of the achievement of fiscal targets because prudent fiscal policies need to be pursued, which is not typical of the mandate before, and consequently makes fiscal consolidation of the current government and economic recovery more difficult. That's what you have to say. The government has already adopted measures for 2010 which, under the intervention law, reduce the commitments in the 2010 budget of EUR 400 million. Of course, the government is limited in reducing public spending because the legal obligations already exceed 80% of the state budget. With amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, the former government has covered up these additional obligations because it has not carried out and prepared, and the National Assembly has not adopted, we have already mentioned many times, changes to the 2009 budget. Additional legal obligations in 2009 were due to pre-election promises and other changes, amounting to almost EUR 400 million. As a result, the Government has a smaller room of manoeuvre for anti-crisis action than was, say, available in 2004. The fact is that income, without the implementation of the tax reform, would be higher by 3% of gross domestic product in 2010, or around EUR 1.2 billion. While it is true that the tax reform has burdened the economy and, to a lesser extent, the population, but they have had the richest of this tax reform. Of course, it is not a problem that the tax reform has burdened the economy, but the problem is that public financial expenditure has not been relatively reduced in the previous mandate. The increase in the expenditure of the consolidated public sector balance by 34% by 2008, in relation to 2004 and the increase in legal obligations, has significantly reduced the government's operating space during the crisis. The European Commission's report on the state of public finances shows that the deterioration of public finances was abandoned as it was committed in 2004. Virant's salary reform also has 2 times the effect he predicted. The amount of funds needed to eliminate payment imbalances is 800 million instead of the 400 million forecast. Mr. Visjak, I understand your anxiety, but please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u12	Go on, Mr. Contic. I ask for peace and attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u13	If we focus on the current situation, the economic situation, this is the situation. Slovenia is currently in recession, but it must be stressed that the recession is a result of the decline in investment. In the first quarter of 2010, gross fixed capital investments were lower by 8.2% in the previous quarter of 2010. The decline in investment is expected due to several factors and the problem is that the highway construction programme was concluded just before the recession started and the alternative programme for railway infrastructure was not ready. That is why public investment was less than it could have been in 2009. As a result, there was an additional decline in investments in 2009. This further made the construction situation more difficult and the recession even worse. This is also the case in 2010. Construction and real estate operations have been activities which, in the years preceding the crisis, have been over-indebted and above-average levels of value added growth. The decline of construction activities in 2009 is highest among activities, and this is the case in 2010. Thus, investments in the previous mandate, through policies of previous years, have overheated the economy and are now hampering the recovery of the economy due to overheating. Already data on the growth of the added value of construction from 2005 to 2008 show that this area has been inflated. In 2005, construction created 5.85% of gross domestic product, and in 2008 it already generated 7.33% of gross domestic product. The maximum share of gross domestic product was in the third quarter of 2008, when construction generated 7,86 % of gross domestic product. Also, data on the growth of construction investments show the inflatability of construction. The five-year average of investment growth in construction was 3.9% between 2002 and 2006. In 2007, growth was already 17.1% and in 2008 10.1%, much higher than the euro area average. In 2007 the euro area – 2.1% increase in investment in construction. Nevertheless, it must be stressed that everything is not so black. In the first quarter of 2010, the added value of processing activities increases over a long period of time and also increases the added value in transport activities. By 4,5 % higher exports, due to the increase in imports, the balance of foreign trade contributed to the growth of gross domestic product by 0,5 % in the first quarter of 2010. Incentive data are also available on the labour market. Unemployment has been lower for the second time this year, of course that does not mean it is not too high. At the end of May 2010, 98 000 401 unemployed persons were registered at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, which is 0.9 % less than in April. Employment data also show a positive trend. On the basis of data for the first 5 months of 2010, 22 000 784 unemployed persons were employed, 30.8 % more than in the comparable period last year. In any event, an active employment policy played an important role in preserving jobs in 2009 and retains it in 2010. The anti-crisis measures have helped Slovenia maintain 28 000 500 jobs, of which 8 000 jobs under the Law on Part-time Subsidisation, 17 000 jobs under the Law on Partial Remuneration of Salaries and 3 000 500 jobs, on the basis of measures of low value, which are intended for companies in difficulty at the time of the crisis, self-employment subsidies. The unemployment rate in 2010 is still among the lower members of the European Union and is better than expected. Instead of the ninth lowest in the autumn report, the sixth lowest in the European Union is now. As a result, resources for active high-level policy, amounting to more than €170 million, remain in the 2010 budget balance, three times more than in 2008. In order to increase employment, the Government has taken measures in the tax area, which are taken into account in the 2010 budget rebalancing. The introduction of tax incentives for employment of less than 26 years of age and over 55 years of age, which are permanently unemployed, will allow tax incentives for employment of up to 16 000 unemployed persons. However, structural reforms in the labour market are needed, prepared by this government for greater employment and greater resilience to external shocks. Unimplemented reforms in the previous mandate have made it difficult to adapt to the financial and economic crisis. We believe that the opposition is most critical in reducing investment in the state budget. The claim that investments promote economic growth is true. While the government is reducing investments in the budget rebalancing, it is also due to the changed dynamics of financing European and domestic projects where, due to long-term procurement procedures, the plans have been delayed in the coming years. However, in doing so, it should be stressed that the investments in the budget balance are still at a very high level. Compared to 2008, more than 30% of investment funds are growing, or 300 million to 1.28 billion euros, 184 million more than in 2009. It is also necessary to look at measures taken by countries that promote private investment. With the help of economic diplomacy, for example, SCT has concluded one billion contracts of built-in roads in Libya. This is a very important achievement in these times of crisis. In May 2010, the National Assembly also adopted the Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to finance investment by companies to promote new private investments. The amount of the guarantee is not time-limited and amounts to EUR 1 billion. Prior to that, it has adopted a guarantee scheme for companies that will continue until the end of this year to finance operating assets and to refinance. Developmental orientation and the promotion of economic growth are also measured not only by investments that only currently promote economic growth. That is why all government measures that promote investment and the developmental orientation of the budget, which promotes long-term economic growth, need to be looked at. There is also a need to review the structural measures that promote competitiveness and potential economic growth, which are being prepared for 2011. The Ministry of Transport still retains a large amount of funding for an infrastructure project for railway modernisation. Of course, these funds will also be maintained at a high level due to the deliberate collection of funds under the annual road transport duty and the part of the concession fee for investments in the rail network. The Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, which set priorities for restructuring the economy by investing in education, science, technological development and competitiveness, retain an important priority in the budget. The funds in these two areas total 32% higher in the 2008 budget balance sheet, totalling EUR 854 million, in 2008 the amount was EUR 644 million. In doing so, it is not only the level of funds allocated to the budget that is important. It is important to achieve the objectives set. It is certainly an important long-term strategy to be drawn up by the National Higher Education Programme from 2011 to 2020 with the aim of a knowledge society. Of course, it is necessary to review the overall range of government measures, which is not visible in the budget, but is reflected in the output strategy and aid schemes for the economy and indirectly through the SIT bank, which has already issued more than €2 billion of loans to help the economy by the end of 2009. The government is also preparing the concept of a development platform that can become an important instrument of the new Slovenian development model. As a result, the development platform will be one of the key measures that will help to restructure the economy in increasing monetary value in addition to the measures already implemented by the Government in the economic field. It also provided a clear message to the economy by raising the minimum wage. Long-term jobs need to be maintained, which will create higher added value and lead a decent life. In doing so, it should be noted that the minimum wage level was led mainly by the coordination mechanism established by the Minimum Wages Act 2006. This law provides that the minimum wage is aligned with inflation, which is taken into account as the basis for the preparation of the State budget, but has not been a safeguard in the event of a faster real inflation than taken into account in harmonisation. In 2006, the minimum wage was lagging behind for nominal private sector gross wage growth for good 2 percentage points and for poor 4.5 percentage points in 2007. In 2007, the minimum wage even fell by more than a percentage. Such movements also led to a sharp decrease in the ratio to the average wage, totalling almost 3 percentage points in both years. However, it is true that most of the long-term measures will be prepared in the 2011 and 2012 budgets. In view of the need to maintain commitments to consolidate the budget and to maintain confidence in economic policy, the Social Democrats Group will support the proposed 2010 budget balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the Government, members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! As the Government itself has said, the first anti-crisis budget, or budget rebalancing, should be ahead of us. If, last year, when we adopted or adopted the first budget rebalancing for 2009, the Government proposed a reduction in expenditure or expenditure of EUR 600 million, then last March we could attach 600 million less expenditure to this claim and last year's budget, the Slovenian economy would probably be aware of it and, consequently, the budget would have more to do with it. However, in July 2010, the situation in which we came at this time was markedly understated. If we look at the revenue and expenditure of the state budgets from 2008 to 2010, which you also have on the screen, then we see that, despite the fact that this government has talked about anti-crisis, it has only increased the expenditure of the budget. If the budget expenditure in 2008 was expected to be 8 billion 400 million in the year of the konjunkture, today expenditure is proposed with this balance, which is expected to be counter-crisis, almost 10 billion, or 9 billion, 800 million. While revenue is projected at 8 billion 100 million, the budget was even slightly higher in 2008. The government foresees a billion 700 million deficits, with this being an extremely optimistic assessment that will not be achieved, of course. As a percentage, this is supposed to be 5% of the budget deficit. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, served two days ago with the information that in the first quarter of this year there was a budget deficit of 9.6% of gross domestic product. Today, the National Assembly accepts this budget rebalancing on a totally unrealistic basis. The latest figure is almost 10% of the budget deficit. There is virtually no revenue in the budget from corporate income tax. The income is lower than expected. This information is well known, but it is said that the budget deficit will be 5%. I ask that the Government and the government coalition take into account the information made available by their official institutions. In autumn 2008, when our government had some technical powers, we proposed a first set of anti-crisis measures and, given the situation at the time and the data available for the first half of 2008, we proposed a budget balance, instead, the current government rushed with the first draft budget rebalancing proposal for last year, which increased expenditure by €800 million. So much for who knew that the crisis was coming and that the crisis was not coming. Then, virtually every expenditure rebalancing, we have just increased and now we have the last so-called anti-crisis rebalancing that will unfortunately not be achieved, as it cuts by a billion 700 million, at the expense of an estimated income, which is extremely optimistic. The situation has deteriorated dramatically, especially since public finances have not been looked at in a dynamic way at the beginning of last year and nothing has been done to increase revenues. We have proposed over 100 different short- and medium-term measures, which would also strengthen the revenue side of the budget, with the exception of two or three, which were summarised in government laws and were not rejected, but ignored. When we proposed the third anti-crisis package four or five months ago, the National Assembly adopted a recommendation to the Government to examine and identify it. Since then, there have probably been 20 meetings of the Government, and none of these meetings have had a agenda item with this content. Looking at the international comparison, we see that in mid-2010 the European Union is on average out of recession, and beyond the recession is the European Monetary Union, where we belong. Beyond the recession are also countries that had a significantly lower starting point at the start of the crisis than Slovenia, significantly greater public debt, significantly smaller manoeuvres, but have taken effective measures and are now out of recession on the positive side of economic growth. Now these international comparisons are of course objective. The movement of gross domestic product and the growth of gross domestic product in the euro area and Slovenia, from 2006 to the first quarter of this year, shows these strong scissors when, instead of being at least somewhere on the average of the European monetary union, we are lagging behind for almost as long as we have been ahead of the European Monetary Union in development by 2008. Last year, 2009, was the first year in the history of Slovenia when Slovenia did not reach the average of European Union development. You'll see that on the next graph. Slovenia's gross domestic product fell by 5% compared to the average of the European monetary union in one year and was not one year and the whole of Europe was in crisis under the same conditions. In fact, Slovenia probably had much better conditions in last year than it was 10 years ago when it was neither a member of the European Union nor a single market when we paid customs for European products nor was it a member of the euro area. Relative comparisons with the external environment show that the reasons for such a fall in Slovenia cannot be only external but must also be internal. We had previously listened to half the performances in this direction as to how the former government was responsible. I am surprised that only the previous government is to blame, probably some other governments have been guilty before, which have also passed laws defining the fixed consumption of the budget. It is likely that during our term of office a few percent of the fixed consumption was determined by legislation. Most of this fixed consumption was determined during the previous governments, each government has determined something, changed something, and this government has every opportunity and has a majority in this Parliament to adapt this fixed consumption to the current situation. There's no point in doing that. They are concerned about the following data, official data from the Ministry of Finance, which discusses the country's revenue. In the last six quarter period, virtually all the country's revenues have been drastically reduced with the exception of income, which has dropped relatively little. Because the real purchasing power of the population in Slovenia did not significantly decrease in the last year when GDP fell by a tenth, because we financed it by borrowing. This has also led to almost a little less revenue from income than in 2008, but it is also declining. However, excise revenue has been drastically reduced despite a 40% increase since the start of the excise duty mandate. The value added tax has fallen most recently, and social security contributions as well because it is less employed. The corporate income tax is also virtually gone this year, and I think there are a few more than 100 million in the first quarter. Then, according to the Ministry of Finance, we also have deficits or surpluses in public treasury. This information, the official data of the Slovenian Government or the Finance Ministry, should sober anyone who has wasted time on this speaker by describing a situation that is not, which is virtual. This is official data showing exceptional scissors between income and expenditure or public financial surplus or recent deficits in Slovenia. Pull this projection two years in advance and you'll see what scenario we're in. As a result, the following data is calling for an alarm. This is a matter of public debt or State debt and payment of interest. Since 2008, public debt has increased dramatically, Slovenia has recorded an increase in public debt in last year, and we have increased it by 59%. Fortunately, there was a crisis with the state of public finances, when Slovenia was the second least indebted country in the euro area, of course it is no longer there, but there is still some room for manoeuvre. The last graph is slightly outside these categories, but it talks about how pointless it is just to talk about some reforms and scare people if they are not meant to be carried out seriously or if they are not implemented in real time. This is an inflow of old pensioners after months in individual years. Here you can see how, since August last month, there has been a significant increase in the number of old pensioners each month because people wanted to retire as soon as possible, even if they did not meet exactly all the conditions because they calculated that this would pay them better than if they waited for a new pension scheme after the promised and discussed pension reform. So far, we have received only negative effects for these reforms, which are not cumulatively negligible. The situation is therefore serious, it cannot be confused with such or other trips to the past or the future. Such talk will not help anything, so we are proposing some measures that would have already worked if they had been adopted and would have been better, and that is not the case now. We propose to limit public spending and state debt. Now is not the time to explain this in more detail, but yesterday we published a whole package of these proposals adopted by our expert council. The aim is to move to 43% of public consumption in gross domestic product in 2013, which would significantly stabilise Slovenian public finances and boost business optimism. We propose the immediate freeze on the establishment of all new public agencies and the establishment of a state of affairs in this area as of 1. 1. 2008 We propose the accelerated preparation of large state investment projects, particularly in infrastructure areas. We are proposing the establishment of a bad bank; otherwise, you will be able to rename the New Ljubljana Bank, which was found to have at least 10% of the bad investments or credits yesterday, into a bad New Ljubljana Bank and will not have to establish any. We propose an increase in general and specific income relief, a reduction in excise duty, an exemption from innovation income, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate by 5 percentage points over the next two years, an unlimited 40% reduction in the amount invested in fixed assets. Direct and indirect budgetary users should be obliged to pay for goods and services within 15 days and make such an important contribution to the financial liquidity of the economy, we propose an increase in the contribution to investment in R & D to 100% or full exemption. We propose the introduction of flat-rate taxation for independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises, direct State guarantees, especially for research and development projects and for SMEs, these guarantees are now still indirect and are essentially guarantees to banks. We are proposing a more efficient operation and greater support to the economy by the Bank's SID, in particular financing and securing export transactions through this company. We are proposing tax breaks for newly established companies, an increase in the rate of depreciation, greater supervision in the labour market and the establishment of a retirement fund. We are also proposing the reorganisation and rationalisation of the public sector, where, according to the European Commission throughout Europe and, of course, Slovenia, there are significant reserves. We also propose that the Government implement, instead of the existing flat-rate austerity measures that have brought additional administration, a savings programme for material and other public sector operating costs on the basis of a personal initiative of officials or managers and also employees, which would have a significant impact of EUR 100 per employee per year. We propose to reorganise the public procurement system significantly in order to decentralise the introduction of the material personal responsibility of those responsible for the business, thus saving up to EUR 100 million per year in Slovenia. We propose that investments be redistributed instead of contractions, since not all investments are necessary at this time, but trade centres and stadiums, which are clearly the main priorities of the government coalition, are not redistributed. However, the shrinking of investments at this time is, of course, a reverse action rather than an exit from the crisis. In December 2008, with the completion of January last year, we sent a proposal to the Government and the government coalition to continue the project Partnership for Development with the name 2+10. This name symbolized the ambitions of the time to bring Slovenia out of the crisis in two years and then set up a 10-year development programme. Although the Government has promised to continue this project and to cooperate at the beginning of this mandate, there has been no reply to this proposal in the last 18 months to our address. For 18 months we have been waiting for a written response, on our proposal, to continue the Partnership for Development 2+10 project. Due to this delay, the title will have to be changed, and now two years is an extremely short time to come out of the crisis. The new address will probably be 5+10. It will take Slovenia at least five years to return to the developmental momentum in which it was a few years ago. But if we wait any longer, it'll be too short a time for five years. Before it starts, there will be positive results. If, within 18 months, the government coalition has come to a different conclusion, we are happy to do so, and we will believe that after 18 months, the answer will come to our address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The 2010 budget rebalancing is necessary as it is known that, unfortunately, the expected lower revenues in the first half of 2010 are necessary to take all measures to reduce the deficit, that is a fact. Otherwise, we all know that the consequences will be uncontrollable. What we constantly call sustainability of public finances must be ensured. It is clear that this is the first time that we are all faced with the fact that there is an urgent need to cut and that this is the first time that this cut is even a little sharper and more painful in the budget, and so there are visible and tangible consequences. That is why Slovenia has decided that maintaining fiscal stability will be among its first priorities, and that is what we must all acknowledge together, whether we like it or not, and what the Government does. We must also recognise that Slovenia is, in some way, limited or also a prisoner of the fiscal plans of the major euro area Member States, which have announced rigorous austerity measures and is also, to some extent, forced to resolve public spending or reduce the public financial deficit this year, as otherwise it could be reduced by lowering its credit ratings. Clearly, the paths are different. We are, as I have said, and I want to explain this in some way, including the captives of the euro area and the decisions and directions that the euro area has chosen and that are, in some ways, such that it is primarily about belt tightening and saving. When we have been monitoring the progress and meeting of G8 leaders at global level in recent days, we have seen how different approaches are in the way of resolution or how to move forward in promoting, above all, economic recovery in a time of continuing crisis. It has been shown that the directions and paths are different, and we have seen that the leaders of the Member States of the European Union are mainly predicting the reduction and reduction of budgetary deficits, while the United States of America is going a different way. German Chancellor Angela Merkel definitely insisted at the meeting on plans to reduce the budgetary deficits of euro area members. There's kind of our catch here, too. However, we must acknowledge that there are dilemmas and doubts as to whether we have chosen or are on the right track. Last but not least, Nobel prize winner Paul Krugman, and interestingly, Slovenian economist Vladimir Bole is joining him, but they feel that the current threat is greater than inflation of deflation and that restrictive fiscal policy, too harsh a restrictive fiscal policy is not necessary at this time, is not meaningful and that time has not yet come in the gravest form. Also interesting is Krugman's finding, which I quote: "Governments preach about the necessity of belt tightening, while the real problem is inadequate consumption", the end of the quote. I think that it is also a challenge for our government, our coalition, and if cooperation begins, as we do today, in some way, we feel a touchiness, then it is also for the opposition. This is a matter of question, and I want to take advantage of this, because the balance here, what there is not much to do here, is primarily a challenge and a question in the preparation of the 2011 budget and 2012 budget. We want to draw attention to this dilemma in the Zares Group, we want to encourage it and we want to encourage reflection in this direction. We hope that we will really look for this, and also for those who at the moment are particularly challenging the belt's tightening, we will also respond by what economist Krugman says, so that we will be able to really clean up within the budget also the inadequate spending that I think has been accumulated in Slovenia for years and years. I therefore recognise that there are also different opinions within the coalition, different views, because these are extremely difficult things where there is no uniform response. Of course, if we go back to the rebalancing, one of the main reasons for the rebalancing is lower tax inflows than planned. According to our calculations, it is likely that 6.5 billion taxes will be in the budget this year, which is less than €540 million planned. The maximum derogation relates to the corporate income tax, where refunds were even lower than payments in the first months. However, we need to know in all the criticisms that this year's state budget was adopted last November. At the time, experts who, in some way, give a ton of budget preparation have already warned that the crisis has not shown all its teeth. This is sometimes difficult to hear, but the fact is that this has also now proved to be true. That is why more money was expected to flow into the state treasury this year, namely 8.6 billion revenues and 10.5 billion euros in expenditure. The budget deficit would thus be 1.8 billion or 5% of GDP. The government and the rebalancing proposal will reduce spending by 600 million and will amount to EUR 9.9 billion. The government found savings, as we could all see together, especially in terms of investments and material costs. Some investments will be moved or withdrawn, as we say next year, particularly in the field of transport and health. Additional inflows The government also looks forward to a temporary increase in excise duties on cigarettes, natural gas and electricity. This should leave the budget deficit somewhat below 5% of the gross social product. The government has decided to maintain the budget deficit below 5%, as its reduction by an additional half percent would simply mean too drastic and painful incision in expenditure at the moment. In the Zares Group, given the concerns of Nobel laureates, as well as some recognised and respected Slovenian economists, we share the belief that it is better to be more moderate in terms of intervention in budgetary expenditure. I would also like to present this in one of the cases. Banka Slovenije Governor Marko Kranjec pointed out that some of the planned measures, including the reduction of investments, would have an impact on economic activity, and likely also on economic growth. While current economic trends show a slight recovery, the construction situation is critical. On this occasion, I would also like to express our concern when we are interfering with investments in transport, health and other areas, which are mainly related to construction. Today we read that the Prime Minister and the President of the Government will meet briefly with representatives of this industry to seek a solution. It is a pity that one of the solutions, unfortunately due to restrictive budget interventions, is also not in state investment, because in this way people would certainly have at least a little over 200 million more work. Construction has overheated economic growth at the time of the conjuncture, and in fact it is in construction that the issue is largely reversed in this recovery. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we are not quite sure if it is wise that public investment, for example, in the roads, should be withdrawn next year, but unfortunately this is the case and that is why the decision has fallen. In doing so, the country is taking on the momentum for the construction workers most affected by the crisis and associated subcontractors, as there will be no major and at the same time necessary investments. Not just because there's no money, but it's unfortunately because there aren't enough projects ready and things aren't put into space. Despite the concerns raised, we must and we want to give recognition to the Government for one of those things that we call extremely good, as one of the things where it is indeed a strategic decision. It is a matter of maintaining the growth of investment funds, but the volume of investment is still fully positive in terms of implementation in 2008. We think the government's efforts here are great. However, with what I mentioned earlier, with the reallocation of inadequate spending, as we might call it, we will have to turn this trend even more upward for 2011 and 2012, because it is probably one of the levers to make economic growth faster, as unfortunately the Slovenian economy is heavily burdened, dependent and marked by the construction sphere. With the rebalance at this point – unfortunately, the time is obviously running out – we also lack a more programme-oriented balance or a clearer set of priorities. We hope in our Group of Members, and we will also work together to see this happen more intensively, more should be done in the preparation of the 2011 budget. Perhaps last year, when we have already warned in our Group of Members, there has not been a simple awareness of everyone that we are in fact already in a deep crisis and that there will also be a need in the Government itself, within the individual departments and between the departments, to understand more where the real things are, which are priorities and where something may need to be saved. I also reiterate the well-known position of the Zares Group. We also said it several times at the time of the consideration of the budget or the rebalancing, but unfortunately the funds are already spent. I mean the area of defense, I mean the area of patriots. Patri is an example where we should actually consider whether or not the economic moment is such that these things do not need to be realized at the moment, including other investments, because perhaps what Nobel laureate Krugman said is an inappropriate consumption. Unfortunately, however, the funds for this year have already been spent. There's been a lot of haste here. Regardless of the fact that what we believe in the Zares Group is a question of economic, economic and social moment in considering this purchase, it is also a question of the fact that a number of things have happened in the middle of the forecasting process itself, as the fact is that there are doubts that corruption, which is evident in this business, has also been involved by very high, former officials or employees of the said Ministry. In the future, we expect more courage in the negotiations, an absolute freeze at least for all the periods during which the forecasting or later judicial proceedings take place. Savings that have not only a direct financial impact but, above all, savings, which also have major psychological effects, which I think will be needed in the autumn when we deal with those unpleasant issues, as the Prime Minister says, by reforms in laws that are not pleasant, which are reflected in great opposition. It will certainly be necessary to consider some matters in order to be able to balance the interventions that we will devote to the sphere of capital and the anomalies that we are witnessing to them on a daily basis and that show that our legislation is not effective in many areas. In some areas, however, services that should use this legislation as a tool do not work adequately, effectively and in such a way that they do not cause much discomfort. Only in this is the key to being successful in social dialogue on the one hand and that people will understand and be willing to tighten the belt if they see, of course, that these burdens are evenly and fairly distributed across all social strata. At this point, unfortunately, even in our parliamentary group, we believe that many times we do not see this uniformity and that, of course, some layers are still alive and lived a few years ago when there was actually no crisis. We will support the proposal for a budget rebalancing. I have expressed these concerns mainly because, with our views and activities, we are already focused on the preparation of the 2011 budget. I hope that we will be able to find some bolder answers to both the income and the cost of our public finances here in dialogue, this time with the opposition and I welcome this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers! Slovenia is still officially in recession. The real decline in GDP in the first quarter compared to previous and even lower GDP than in the same period last year shows that the level of economic activity in the first quarter of this year has been the lowest since the start of the economic and financial crisis. That's how official statistics make us into a nice society. In addition to us, only Greece, Cyprus and Romania are in recession from the countries of the European Union. On the world competitiveness scale, we fell for 20 cities, 52nd place between 58th countries. After us, they are classified according to our data Bulgaria, Romania, Argentina, Croatia, Ukraine and Venezuela. The competitiveness index shall be calculated on the basis of a combination of indicators by group and area. In some specific areas, we are even in a worse place, for example in measuring the efficiency of the country at 53rd and in measuring business efficiency at the last 57th place. The 2010 budget was adopted by the end of November 2009. Today, we have a budget rebalancing, with statistics forecasting EUR 540 million lower than anticipated. According to our available data, expenditure is expected to be reduced by almost €600 million, mainly by removing investment mainly in transport, health, defence, science, etc. at the most inappropriate time. In our opinion, we will be saving by delaying investments in the coming years. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development says that the proposed 2010 budget rebalancing does not provide for intervention in expenditure through more systematic measures, but only means harmonising expenditure with lower estimated revenues and will not contribute to the consolidation of public finances this year. The balance is strongly counting on European funds and also on the increase in excise revenue. We are very skeptical about both incomes in the Slovenian People's Party. The Government itself notes in its explanation of the budget that the lower realisation of budget revenues is most affected by, among other things, the lower quantities of energy sold. The assessment of excise revenue is lower by €41 million, mainly due to lower sales of diesel fuel in 2009 and the assessment of additional sales reductions in 2010. What kind of measure does the Government provide? An additional increase in excise duty to sell even less fuel and to get even less revenue from these excise duties. You could say the wrong world. Instead of transit through the Republic of Slovenia, we would have a different extraction than pollution and oppression on Slovenian roads. The government envisages an additional increase in fuel excise duties, so that we will be absolutely the most expensive in this part of Europe. We don't have to understand that math. This is also what Umar points out in his opinion when he says that excise duties should also take into account the possible impact of reducing consumption. We also estimate that Slovenia will not exhaust all the European resources foreseen for the rebalancing as revenue. Why do we think that? This is because, since Minister Žagar's departure, European funds have been sought for such and other administrative obstacles, which will result in less efficiency in drawing, but more about this to my colleagues below. There is therefore limited scope for increasing tax burdens in the area of revenue. It would only make sense to think about solutions that would not further burden work and capital, even more. Consideration should be given to decommissioning the economy. In particular, a number of things could be done to expand the tax base, which would eliminate certain anomalies and reduce tax evasion by various measures. I will discuss the expenditure in detail below. We must urgently start implementing measures on the expenditure side of the deficit reduction budget as soon as possible, in particular structural measures that will enable a stable, long-term public financial situation. In the Slovenian People's Party, you will have a constructive partner in this area. In particular, in the context of the rebalancing, I would mention the field of investment, which is significantly decreasing. Not only Slovenian construction, but also our economy needs full investment. We are also critical in the Slovenian People's Party as a result of the changes to the budget, which, even to a large extent, removes these investments, this is certainly bad for the economy as a whole. In our opinion, support for state investment and also for municipalities should be provided for their investments and investment should be carried forward as quickly as possible. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we compared some key items in the budget rebalancing to the same items in 2008. The last year of 2008 was the so-called fat cows, which are spoken of so much in this house. So the year that today’s government parties thought it would be wasted without control, excessively, it was pro-cyclical and we overheated the economy. So we're talking about a large reserve that's supposed to be saved in 2008. In 2008, revenue in the state budget, compared to the proposed 2010 budget rebalancing, was higher by 428 million euros, or otherwise, this year's revenue will be lower by 428 million euros than it was in 2008. At the same time, this year's expenditure for 17 ministries, i.e. only take into account ministries without non-governmental and government consumers compared to 2008, will be higher by EUR 1.4 billion. Let's take a look at what was going on at 17 ministries. In 2008, 17 ministries had €8 billion in expenditure. The planned implementation for 2009 provides for 9.2 billion expenditure, i.e. 1.1 billion euros more. The 2010 budget, however, provides for expenditure of €10 billion, an additional increase of €800 million compared to 2009. This is more than €2 billion in 2008. With the balance of the budget that we are dealing with today, we are reducing expenditure by around €600 million in 2010, but we are still 1.4 billion above the 2008 expenditure. So, again, the expenditure of 17 ministries will be 1.4 billion higher in 2010 than the expenditure of these same ministries in 2008. This was in a year of fat cows, where the previous government was not supposed to have control over consumption and there was a lot of reserve. In this reserve there is also supposed to be a place for saving. All of this makes it inappropriate for me to talk about saving this time. If we touch individual ministries, unfortunately we see poorly in this table, we see that the biggest consumers, or those who have the biggest increase in 2008, are the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for 500 million, the Ministry of Finance for 351 million, and this is actually 60%, all of which is 1.4 billion. However, they are also those with lower consumption than was foreseen in 2008. This is, for example, the Ministry of Defence, regrettably the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So they're ministries that also save money. I wonder why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a 10 million higher budget for development and European affairs than in 2008? Why does the Ministry of Culture have a higher budget of 32 million for 20 million and the Ministry of the Interior? These must be the resources that the crisis does not concern and could certainly be saved. If we look at some other consumers of budget money, we also see that there is no excessive will to save. The Commission has almost €700,000 higher spending to prevent corruption, and the National Assembly has a higher spending of €638,000. Why does the Constitutional Court need almost half a million euros more spent this year than it did in 2008? Why is the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts more than €400,000 spent? And I could count it. The tax administration spends 8.8 million euros more than it did in 2008. Surely we will continue to hear a lot of arguments as to why this is so, and above all that the former government is to blame for such spending, that the pay reform is to blame, that free lunches are to blame, that free kindergartens are to blame, and so on. I can no longer accept these arguments after a year and a half. You have assumed responsibility for the leadership of the country and thus the responsibility for change. You've done a lot of them already. Of course, especially those that matter to you. The deleted family code, which is on the way, the RTV law, and certainly could if those arguments that we will hear were such a big problem, they would change, and no one would blame you if we said that instead we would invest in any investment. As far as total revenue is concerned, as I have already said, this year's revenue will decrease by 428 million euros compared to 2008. It is even more worrying that tax revenues have decreased by 1.1 billion euros, especially income and profit taxes, which have fallen by 728 million euros despite the fact that the consumption of ministries, as we have seen, has been higher by more than a billion in 2009 and will be higher by one billion in 2010 than in 2008. With such financial injections, it has taken place and will, as I said, be worth a billion euros more last year and this year, however, one would expect that these measures in the Slovenian economy would be known that all these injections, the placement of terrible amounts of money in such and other ways would also be known in economic growth, in greater economic activity and in greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, not to say more technological and innovative development. It must be acknowledged that this rebalancing, however, reduces the consumption on the material cost item compared to 2008, which I have talked a lot about in all previous budget discussions, and this is good. At the same time, I drew attention to the emergence of accelerated budget spending in the month of December of the current year. In the Member State's question, we requested data on the material costs item for all budgetary consumers and received confirmation that a large proportion of the budget resources are being spent in December simply to spend resources on the budget item and not because the budgetary consumer would need it. Let's take a look at some examples. For the cabinet of the Prime Minister, we can say that in 2009 he had a relatively balanced consumption. But we do have cases where that's not the case. In December last year, the General Secretariat spent 138% more than the average from January to November. The Public Payments Authority spent 199 % more on December than the average from January to November. The RS Energy and Mining Inspectorate spent 243%, the RS Defence Inspectorate 264%, the Budget Authority 404%, the RS Government Office for Equal Opportunities, an absolute winner, 800% more than the average from January to November. All budget consumers outside ministries have 34% higher spending. Let's take a look at the ministries. The Ministry of Education and Sport has spent 71% more, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 77% more, the Ministry of Defence 105% more, the Ministry of Public Administration 119% more, and the Ministry of Interior winner 147% more. The ministries together spent 55%, representing 4.4% of the expenditure on this item. Well, let's see, given that I also got data for administrative units. The administrative unit Žalec spent 253 % and the pond by 278 %, while the winner was the Logatec Administrative Unit, which spent 420 %, the administrative units together spent 69%, representing 5.4 % of the consumption. We can conclude from these graphs that there is no overestimation. No one's gonna convince me that it is. We also have a similar problem in employment in the public sector, where the government has not been able to limit employment in the public sector. Moreover, at the time of this government, the number of employees is expected to increase by almost 3,000, but my colleagues will talk about it. To conclude, the public administration will have to adapt and share in all its elements the fate of the Slovenian economy, which has already paid a high price or a high account of the financial and economic crisis. If the public administration considers this simple and very irresponsible, the price or bill paid by the economy will be even higher. It would be right, fair, fair and fair for this account to be partly paid by the public administration. Certainly, in the light of the facts we have presented, we would expect a greater reduction in public spending in this budget, particularly in the part that does not add value. At the expense of encouraging those investments that will give future economic impetus, economic growth, new jobs and new added value. This is certainly not possible without a radical reform of public administration, which should cover both restructuring, reorganisation, abolition or unification of worlds, offices, agencies growing like mushrooms in the rain and the final reduction in the number of ministries. We will not support this budget balance in the Slovenian People's Party. Regrettably, the rebalancing only harmonises expenditure with substantially lower incomes and is not a little cost-saving or development-oriented. By rejecting the balance, we would like to give the Government a new opportunity, an opportunity to prepare a better balance as soon as possible, on the one hand a more cost-effective one and, on the other hand, a longer-term and developmental one. And one more thing, the Prime Minister of the Government beat me to the punch, and today I myself wanted to propose or give my hand in the direction of cooperation. The Slovenian People's Party has already said several times, even when we have talked about structural reforms, that it will be willing to participate in better communication and better conversation so that we can tackle the financial and economic crisis more easily and efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u21	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. The Honorable Council of Ministers. Nice greeting on our behalf, nice greetings to my colleagues and colleagues. With this proposal, in general, no one is satisfied, not ministers, not Members, but even less local communities and, of course, mayors. Nevertheless, in the DeSUS Group, we have decided to support the proposal for a 2010 budget rebalancing because we have no other choice. We are concerned in our Group because the proposal is mainly an intervention in investment and in those areas that are still important for promoting the economy and for employment. According to our assessment, investments that create jobs and revenue for the budget itself are cut. At the same time, we estimate that the Government, when preparing the balance, has focused too much on limiting expenditure. Instead of focusing more on the preparation of appropriate revenue-enhancing measures, such as how to collect taxes, how to force employers to pay all the required contributions, how to increase non-tax revenues and so on. We are also concerned in the DeSUS Group about the reduction of the budget under the Ministry of Finance in the pension line of EUR 20 million. This reduction is justified by the Ministry's failure to raise wages, and there will also be no harmonisation of pensions. This is reasonable reasoning, and we try to trust the minister, but we still have some bitter taste. We have an even bigger problem in the DeSUS Group with how the government intends to increase the flow of money into the budget. Of course, we are thinking mainly of raising excise duties on electricity, gasoline and natural gas. But here the biggest tax will not be borne by businesses, companies, of course, in addition to citizens and citizens. Instead of collecting from the debtors what they owe her, i.e. the tax, it will strike an ordinary person in the pocket, whether it is a pensioner or an active worker who belongs to a lower middle class and does not qualify for social transfers, but it is increasingly difficult to get through day-to-day and is dangerously approaching the edge of poverty. We are increasingly forgetting the taxation of luxury to take where it is. And I'm not gonna say anything from yachts, luxury cars and other things. At the Ministry of Finance, the promotion of electricity was commented on, because it's only 4 euros a month. This suggests, according to our assessment, a complete lack of awareness of the real situation in our country. It's not just 4 euros, it's just one ticket. This means that there is at least 20 euros of incentive at five positions, which means a lot to low-income people. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we appeal to the Government and, above all, to the Ministry of Finance to activate capable people who are capable of broader and innovative thinking and of finding solutions to increase budget revenues in a different way, not by hitting on the pockets of the smallest people. In the Group, we propose to the Ministry of Finance to consider also how the revenue from excise duty on alcohol, cigarettes and chopped tobacco should be directed at the expense of the Ministry of Health, given that the Government in the public sector is justified in raising excise duties with public health care. This would generate a substantial amount of money at the expense of the Ministry of Health, which is one of the most disadvantaged ministries, which could be used to invest in hospitals that are healing the consequences of excessive consumption of alcohol and tobacco products. We also believe that less attention could be paid to international aid and how these high amounts that will arise in foreign countries should be used wisely to address their own economic and economic crisis, to create new jobs, to promote domestic consumption and so on. Let me reiterate that, given that we know in the Group that the balance is urgently needed and that we will never satisfy everyone with it, we will still support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Today we are talking about the 2010 budget balance, which is due to the economic and financial crisis and the decline in economic activity. The consequence of the rebalancing, which is necessary and we all know that something has to be done if the actions, not the numbers provided for through the budget, cannot be applied. And the result of this rebalancing will be to see where we've never been before today. Numbers and comparisons have been heard and seen enormously, and we sometimes forget that there is life behind these numbers and movements. In this life there are people, their moods and their dependence on all the numbers we've heard. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe only one thing: that the only objective, with the balance that is offered, achieved, is the stabilisation of public finances, which is, of course, necessary, necessary and this objective and the balance of achievement. But like other colleagues, through the prism of people's eyes, that is, life, we're going to try to illustrate our vision, our assessment of what we're assessing in this balance as wrong and why. Also about what we offer or suggest that it would be good to do, not just one, but we also want to give, not just take. Basically, the rebalancing was done on a quick, consequently reckless basis. This is based on the data that is visible, and I will not mention the figures on the expenditure side of the reduction at the ministries. Why am I talking about disproportionateity? In view of the disproportionate importance of this reduction, I stress the importance of the ministries where the changes have taken place. I'll tell and I'll explain to whom. The other thing that is illogical, the content that is illogical in this rebalancing is that a large proportion of the reduction is devoted to areas of investment. In doing so, we have heard a lot of opinions and opinions that investment is still larger than it was in 2009 and larger than it was in 2008. Nobody, at least I haven't heard from him, has said that in the years we lived in different times when there was no economic crisis, the biggest investors were the private sector. Today, regardless of these comparisons, when the private sector is failing, state aid in the investment area is needed. Therefore, we estimate that the investment work is too cut off. One of the measures by which, and this is the only thing I have detected in the field of income, the state of account through the rebalancing gets a little more money, is the increase in excise duties. We have no problems in the Slovenian National Party regarding the increase in excise duties on cigarettes and alcohol. Of course, we still object to increasing excise duties in the area of electricity and gas prices. In the back there are people and prices up by half a year by 100%, for one megawatt hour from 6 to 12, not much as some want to show. There is not much for the economy, but there is much for people, as many already do not have enough money to pay monthly electricity bills. But those who share this energy don't really care and come and cut that energy off. Neither does the state care about how these people live, except that there will be more revenue in the field of excise policy. But nobody says it's a very short-term solution. What the excise duties on salaries, as we have today and in the face of the unemployment we have today, will further reduce purchasing power, which means that our objective should increase consumption and with reduced purchasing power we will reduce consumption. Second of all, nobody talks about inflation. Excesses, whatever they are and other incentives, are a major instigator of inflation, and if there is too much inflation at that time, it is for the cancer economy. At least that's what they said, and I believe them, senior economists. Stagflation is cancer, and usually, if someone doesn't have luck, we die. Even with the delay of investments, we will not do much about why I mention it, you will hear it later, because the shifts in investments that are already ready, I will give it to the Government, if the investments that are envisaged are delayed, and for which not all of the conditions are still substantively set, but for those investments that are already prepared, which have a substantive 100 % base, is actually a multiplication, a cyclic multiplication of the reduction of the investment start. One business is tied to 10 others, and if this business, which is connected to 10 others, is moved for one year, of those 10 is tied to another, or of those 10 will not be anyone, and the story will cycle from 1 to 2 and from 2 to 4, which means that it is essentially a barrier to the investment cycle. Now I'm going back to where I said we're seeing people back there, and where I said it's not good to take meaning for individual ministries. I'll start in traffic. Because traffic is not just a luxury to have beautiful roads with black and white lines, transport is today one of the most important elements for the development of the economy. For example, just the case of Luka Koper and the second track. We do not want the railway to have it, as others do, but we need it in order for Luka Koper, as our great economic giant, to do as well and better. Developmental axes. The road is the basic condition that someone, if they come, comes, invests, but if they invest, they want a short, safe and quick path to the goal. If we do not regulate roads, road transport will not be regulated if road transport is not regulated, I speak for the economy, the economy will move. And that's what's happening. I'm going to stop where it hurts the most or maybe even those who think like people because they don't know balance numbers 1, balance sheet 2, balance A, balance B. People know how they live. Health – health is a fundamental human right, health is a prerequisite for good work and longer work if a person is healthy. In addition, health is an area in which we have seen and experienced so far, thank God, from day to day, huge scientific achievements and progress. By taking money from health care, we give up and create the possibility of deteriorating conditions for basic human rights, that is to say, to be healthy, weakening conditions in general for all Slovenes and Slovenians who visit health institutions and need help. In addition, we are blocking daily progress and development and technological modernisation of specific Slovenian health care, which, in my personal opinion, is still at an enviously high level today. But such an intervention, as it seems in this rebalance, I know it is necessary, but it is so great – or perhaps only because it is the most money there, and we will take it the most – but of course it is not acceptable to the Slovenian National Party. And the Ministry of the Economy, that is to say, what we expect most to do is that this wagon will turn up once, that we may not even get to the marginal, but that we can turn these curves up. Ministry of Economy – What's going on? With all that we took to the Ministry, assuming that this is not necessary, it will take a second year, it will take a third year, who saw that Slovenian companies move south? And this is the last key and major Slovenian companies we have. For example, from reliable sources, I will mention the migration of Gorenje from Ljubljana. It is also sad to see yesterday's news that those good Slovenian companies, with the Slovenian brand, are being sold to foreigners. Someone will get rid of it, but the country, I don't know if he realizes it or doesn't want to say that it will take all the profits and all the taxes from production and sales to Croatia, so where Kolinska was specifically sold. But we allow it peacefully and still take money from the economy, instead of having money for what we as an integral part of the opposition at the time. But now we think only as Slovenians, and let's give our zero tax rate for investments under certain conditions. We have talked about this many times, and of course it has not been done in this area. There was a decrease and there was no zero tax rate for significant investments. We see, once again, through the prism of the eyes of people living in this Slovenian economic and non-economic pulse. We propose – whether it will be accepted or not, whether someone will remember it or not – that next time, in such rebalancing, much more time will be spent on non-investment expenditure and finding solutions to reduce these. I'll also tell you which ones and how. Very little attention has been paid, according to the Slovenian National Party, to solving this crisis through the balance sheet, by trying to increase capital revenues. I'll give you the Falcon case. He didn't fly, we didn't use him, we didn't sell him. According to my data, it is worth 13 million euros. We had the cost of a maintenance team, with a team to fly with, with a plane service, and a plane storage unit. That's capital revenue, and if we know we don't need it or if we don't want it, we sell it. That's 13 million, according to my data, could be a little less, could be a little more. Not even words about it. Disposal of certain functions in this country. Slovenia is a member of almost all such and other international organisations, and we have recently joined the OECD. I am convinced that we have some, if not a number of agencies or institutions that are actually their own purpose, because other people are doing their work in ministries or their work is no longer necessary because these content is unfolding, happening and doing in which of these international institutions. The review of these agencies has been done by no one, on the contrary, an increasing number of new ones are being established. Why? We don't know, and of course not for free. Now we're at the last two points. First of all, rents for government offices. Government services give 2.3 million euros a month for rents. This means 23, 25, 26 million euros a year. There is no record of where these rooms are, whether they are necessary, how much they are really worth, or whether it is right that the rent price is still the same, while we have been for a year and more on the market where prices are falling. If not real estate, and it's already started there, at least the prices should be falling for rents and we should be able to make it. However, I am sure that there is no record that we may even be renting any premises that no one else is using, or are just because some are inside. If we look at the tax administration spending half a million euros a month on all its premises, nothing has been done in the area of rent regulation. What bothers us the most in this budget balance is that we have transferred many investments to 2011, 2012, to 2013, if we do not have to, because we will, because we will endure. Or is that investment called a loan to Greece that we cannot transfer to 2011? But that's not one million. This is €145 million for 2010, with Slovenia respecting the Stability and Development Pact, the belt tightening, and now, I do not know how many days and hours, listens to discussions on this balance, which is due to respect for the Stability and Development Pact. But the country that we're about to give her a loan doesn't respect it and does nothing. She hasn't done anything yet. And don't talk about saving ourselves and Europe. That's not true! Greece does nothing to itself. The public worker in Greece has 200 units of wages and 100 units in Slovenia. In Slovenia, another 100 are spasming at 80 units. In Greece, there are 10%, 20 units alone, and they will not do so. We have to give 145 million euros this year, whether this is a loan or not. Even if it's a loan, we have to pay it back. That's not right. It is not right for Slovenes and Slovenes, to Slovenian public workers for whom the Minister does not have much time, but he sits and talks for days and hours. I'll give the public workers the benefit of the doubt. We will give the Greeks 145 million euros in loans, they will not take anything, and they already have more wages than our public workers, and we will take ours to stabilise the Republic of Slovenia. There's no logic here, sorry, nice or ugly. Let us give these 145 million euros, and let us fulfill this commitment, in 2011, when the Greeks prove that they respect the Stability and Development Pact and when they show their actions, as they show and prove Slovenia today, that they are serious, or that we can deal with it and leave it the way it is. We are not far away, or we are already somewhere like Greece, but we are a little smaller, but we are not talking about it, so let Europe help us, let them help us and give us loans, and we will not return it, just as the Greeks will not. This is what hurts us the most with everything we see and what we experience in Slovenian people. The whole story will lead us to lower taxes, lower incomes, more stringent conditions, and last but not least this will spiral to zero, despite the efforts of the government, ministers, Members and people. If Slovenia respects the Stability and Development Pact, others should respect it. For all the reasons listed above, and in particular the latter, we will not support such a 2010 budget balance in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all! In particular, greetings to ministers, ministers and professional associates! Today we are and will hear much about the budget's rebalancing, but there is no need for any emotion and politicization, because much of the budget is simple mathematics and the practice of everyday life – more than you have, you cannot share. In LDS, we will support the budget balance. However, I would like to say in the introduction that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we do not want to deal too much with mistakes in the past. We all know how it got to them and who did it. We are interested in concrete solutions for the future. Therefore, in addressing the budget rebalancing, we want to ask answers to questions about how to prepare the best possible budget balance and seek a compromise, real opportunities between development and financial sustainability and acceptability. Unfortunately, we are also facing the first state budget rebalancing in 2010. The crisis is still showing teeth, and unfortunately we still don't see ourselves very well in the desired light at the end of the tunnel. As a result, the Government was forced to cut the state budget, as without them the country could fall into a longer developmental crisis, resulting from a severely deteriorating public financial situation, an excessive deficit and a high public debt. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, in principle, we support the goals of the rebalancing, as presented by the Government, because, as it said, it wants to ensure public financial stability through a rebalancing process and sufficient resources for Slovenia's active participation in ensuring the protection of stability in the euro area, including through a loan to Greece. When we look at the reasons for the budget's rebalancing, they are undoubtedly concerned with the reduced revenues of the state budget resulting from poor economic activity. Thus, the new planned revenue for 2010 is lower than the current budget by as much as €540 million. These are extremely large, huge numbers that urgently require reflection and transformation of the state budget. As is already widely known, the biggest decrease between tax revenues is seen in the corporate income tax or in the former profit tax, as they will be lower by €281 million in 2010, as they are significantly lower than last year's. The balance sheet also reduces the revenue from the European Union funds by €116 million. The reason is to change the dynamics of the use of these funds, which is understandable, but at the LDS Club, we point out that the Government should be careful about the implementation of concrete projects. European funds are the only nominal and independent financial source of financing for investment projects. This is particularly important in the light of the shrinking of investments financed by own budget resources, as is the case with this balance sheet. At the revenue level, the government will solve problems by means of instruments to raise excise duties, such as higher excise duty on electricity, gas, fuel, as well as tobacco products and alcohol. Just as we will warn when adopting amendments and supplementing the Law on excise duty, we refer to the Government's appeal that excise duty management is extremely cautious, as such increases can also have negative and unpredictable consequences. As a result of the reduction of revenue in the state budget, the government was thus forced to cut into the budget expenditure area, amounting to almost EUR 600 million. The government did not intervene further in the area of rights, but most significantly in the field of investment. While the maximum reduction in expenditure is seen in transport and transport infrastructure, it is regrettable that health, the economic part of the Ministry, the Ministry of Interior and also the Ministry of Defence. In addition to investment expenditure, the Government has reduced expenditure on goods and services of €71 million by austerity measures and the expenditure on interest payments is reduced by more than €31 million. There is also a significant reduction in expenditure on transfers, amounting to €41 million. In addition to the already mentioned investment expenditure of €265 million, investment transfers, such as private companies of €69 million and budget users of little more than €41 million, are declining. Of course, no one can and cannot be satisfied with this information. These are painful interventions, but unfortunately the reduction of expenditure is essential if we want to maintain in Slovenia as much sound and sustainable public finances as possible, assuming that it does not interfere with already acquired and legally defined rights. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, despite explanations, only the dynamics of financing projects are changing, especially those in the field of transport infrastructure, health care and environment and space. Because at the time of this year's adoption of the budget, we have pointed out the importance of financing rail infrastructure, where funds are significantly reduced by the rebalancing of €96 million. In our view, however, railway infrastructure is strategic and crucial for the further development of the country, both in economic terms and in passenger and environmental terms. Similar reductions in rail infrastructure are also taking place in the field of road infrastructure, where funds are largely shouted, amounting to €52 million. We are therefore concerned about the reduction in resources for the management and control of water resources proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Space at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. There, however, it was not only for investment funds, but for resources that enable it to avoid up to 10 times the damage in the first storm, which is due to the lack of water infrastructure. We are pleased with the discussions and the coordination that will result in us being coordinated and that the most important key investments must not suffer and will not. The health sector has also been exposed to us as extremely important. The balance shows that at the Ministry of Health investment funds are declining by €43 million, specifically in the area of hospital health. We are only partially reassured because the Government ensures that sufficient resources are provided for the necessary investments, and this is important, necessary and good. On the other hand, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also lack possible increases in resources in areas that could stimulate the economy more. One such is certainly the area of accelerating programmes for faster technological breakthroughs. Let us accept the clarification that the financing of these development projects, due to the change in funding dynamics, is moving to the future, but we note that it is important to worry that projects will be implemented and also implemented definitively, because they allow us to make the economy easier in the future and, above all, to breathe more quickly. In relation to the technological breakthrough, however, we are pleased that in the field of science and technological development, resources are maintained at about the same level as anticipated in the 2010 budget in force. As has been said many times before, a budget with which it is difficult to be satisfied is ahead of us, as it is to a large extent an intervention in the field of investment, which we already know by heart that they are promoting economic growth. That is why we are particularly lacking in the criteria under which individual investments are being squandered. Therefore, we know whether investments that are not necessary have been cut down and do not significantly affect the promotion of economic growth. Despite these concerns, we are aware that the reduction in public spending and healthy public finances is the main objective, the foundation that needs to be maintained and established. At the very least, what we want is to go along the path of certain European Union countries that are in hopeless situations. In particular, we have in mind countries such as Greece and its like. In this connection, the rebalancing of both budget balances should also be highlighted, as the funds for Greece’s loan, worth 145 million euros, are being allocated to address Greek problems. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia expects that this loan will not have to be distributed in full this year, as we believe that Greece must make more of its own reforms to stabilise its public finances. Even if we are all dissatisfied with the balance, we must also show good results. The balance of the budget ensures a certain basic fiscal stabilisation that leads us away from the path of excessive deficits and public debt and that we remain on about 5% of the gross social product of the budget deficit. It is therefore important to point out that Slovenia remains very sensitive with social protection programmes, education, education for people who are difficult to get through from month to month, and this seems to us in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia particularly important and worth further emphasis. In this context, therefore, structural reforms in the area of increasing the effectiveness of social security expenditure that do not reach the desired expectations are also to be truly entrenched in the coming years. In doing so, it is worth commending the efforts of the Ministry of Labour, which, through reforms, does not reduce resources, but rather by establishing a more transparent and fair system, enhances its effectiveness, in particular social assistance. That is why we want a strong and fair social state to help those who are most in need. We are also facing major changes in the health and pension systems. Therefore, in the coming years, we also expect more economic restructuring activities, whose poor condition has become very widespread in these times of crisis. We are aware that these problems cannot be resolved in the short term, but will require years and years, but at the same time we want more activities in this area and some long-term plan to do so. In the field of the economy, however, we can be particularly pleased with the fact that no new or higher existing taxes are in place, which could stifle and hinder economic growth. In doing so, we welcome certain initiatives after the introduction of a property tax, or more specifically a property tax, which would more systematically regulate the area of property taxation, especially those of luxury, which are not intended for housing. We will confirm the rebalancing with the desire, belief and hope that this rebalancing is the first and also the last in 2010. That is why we will also support this budget balance in our House of Ambassadors for the stabilisation of public finances and for ensuring the stability of the euro area. Finally, I would like to stress once again what I said at the outset, that in our Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we do not want to deal too much with past mistakes, but rather to look first and balance the balance of the budget, on the one hand during development and, on the other hand, during financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. For the first time – a general part of the budget rebalancing proposal, secondly – a specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal, thirdly – a plan of development programmes. We are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. At the same time, I ask you to really limit ourselves to the general part of our debate. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr Mag asked me to speak earlier. Mitja Gaspari, Minister without a department responsible for European affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u27	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As this is a debate, not only on the budget's rebalancing for this year, but also on the assessment and content of economic policies that are supposed to allow for accelerated economic development and in view of the discussion that has already taken place today, I would like to mention first some of the facts relating to the movement in the past period and then some of the comments on the material prepared by the SDS party on possible additional measures in the field of economic policy. Please, if I can get this presentation to explain these things. About the past first. A very common and simple indicator of how fiscal and economic policies operate in different stages of economic movement or cycle is the so-called structural deficit of the state or public finances. This is the case in this case, compared to the euro group to which Slovenia has been a member since 2007 or was in the pre-preparation phase. If we look at these two curves, then we find that Slovenia has shown a relatively poor position between 2005 and 2008, when the other economic cycle in Slovenia was above average, and according to the euro area, it would normally be expected that there would be a structural deficit, which is one that is not dependent on the cyclical components of economic development, is above average in terms of the euro area. Unfortunately, the situation has been reversed and this situation has improved slightly since 2009. What was the underlying reason for this? It was, in fact, an extremely accelerated economic activity that was caused by cyclical reasons, but not so structural, that there was a strong increase in revenue. In doing so, a tax reform was carried out, which was a structural shift in the resources of public finances, and unfortunately did not make an appropriate structural adjustment in the area of public expenditure, which, together with such a reform of revenue, would allow Slovenia to remain in the post-2008 period, irrespective of the upcoming crisis, which was not possible to predict at that time, in a significantly better structural situation, which alone indicates or is in the medium term also sustainable. Cycling upwards or downwards, of course, says a lot of things for a short period of time and says very little in the middle. These matters are important because the tax reform has been done without the reform of public financial expenditure being carried out at the same time, namely structural changes in these public financial expenditure. If we now make this comparison in two types of countries in the euro area, first of all to those countries that we consider strong, then you will find that Slovenia has approached slowly from this point of view in the last two years, or else it will, again to those situations where it was already before 2005. If we look at Austria, Germany and Finland, which are three countries that can be considered the most stable countries in the euro area. The second comparison, which also gives an interesting view, is a comparison with the weak countries of the euro area, such as Spain, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Portugal, where Slovenia is known to have maintained a relatively good comparative position with those countries, regardless of the problems it has experienced before and after the crisis. So Slovenia, according to its performances, which are important for the Stability and Growth Pact, is somewhere in the middle of this euro area. Another important element that shows where we are, how we behaved and what follows us is the so-called competitiveness that is measured by a real effective course or nominal courses corrected by the cost of work per hour. Here you can see that Slovenia had a relatively stable competitive position until 2008 which deteriorated significantly in 2008 and deteriorated again in the first quarter of this year. In both years, the reason was very clear, namely uncontrolled growth in labour costs. In 2008, we know the reasons for this, and in 2010 this was the minimum wage. This is an important indicator at least for the euro area, because it basically sets the position of the country within the euro area, also economically, and of course also the position of action that the European Commission will take in the future. It is interesting that this position was stable from 2001 to 2007 and has deteriorated significantly since 2007. Compared with the stronger euro countries, it is clear here that we are above the Eurogroup standard set by Germany, Austria and, in part, Finland, although Finland has deteriorated significantly over the past two years. By the way, given that data on the growth of the social product have been given, Finland has cumulatively in the last three years, as regards the growth of the social product, poorer results than Slovenia, but we know how Finland has been assessed so far, according to its technological and economic performances. It is clear, therefore, that Finland, which has about the same share of industry in the social product, has suffered a crisis similar to Slovenia. If we look at the same competitive position of Slovenia to the weaker euro area countries, then we see that Slovenia is still much better than most of these countries. One of the important policies is that this competitive situation after the jump that took place in 2007 and 2008 is no longer repeated and that Slovenia's competitiveness remains with other countries, as this is the only important, relative view, the relative relationship between Slovenia and other countries. The next question is the question of debt, which has been mentioned several times today. Here you can see the movement of Slovenia's public debt and the euro area. The picture shows that the movement is very similar, which is also quite normal, of course, because the response to the crisis in Europe was very similar in all countries, not only Slovenia. This led to a significant increase in debt in all countries, leaving Slovenia's relative relationship of debt to the euro area countries more or less unchanged. Emphasis should be taken, with 58% of Slovenia's debt deterioration, on the fact that it is around €900 billion, at least 5% of the points of the social product loaded in deposits in banks and that the banking system in Slovenia, under international conditions, is as normal. If we compare the debt with the stronger countries in the euro area, then you will see that the situation has partially deteriorated, but not as dramatic as it might seem at first sight, at least not for the countries that have been to us so far as some kind of benchmark or show how we should behave. The situation has remained more or less stable with the poorer euro area countries or has further deteriorated in some countries. For an element that has been frequently referred to as premature in the past, this is a real element of pension reform as premature and unnecessary from the point of view of exacerbation in the system that is currently in force, I would show you only two cases. The first example is the presentation of the current net value of the increased expenditure on pensions for the period 2011 to 2030. In this case, it will be seen when this presentation comes to light that, compared to the more developed countries of the European Union or the euro area, the implicit debt that Slovenia has in this segment is much greater than the debt that is in countries such as Austria, Germany, except Finland, which in this case has a larger debt than Slovenia. If we compare this with the weaker countries, then Slovenia has an implicit debt in this period greater than Italy, Ireland, Spain and Portugal and less than Greece. So, from the perspective of three important elements, these are elements of competitiveness, deficit and the most important elements of public cash registers, it is obvious that there is an urgent need to fix them and not just in a few years, but very quickly, in the first place, the pension system. Anyone who thinks it's possible to wait on this segment will receive a very clear financial response within a few years. As regards the elements of corporate indebtedness and the population in Slovenia, which is an additional element for assessing the stability of a system at a given time, we can see that Slovenia, as far as corporate debt is concerned, has doubled its debt between 2004 and 2009. In this case, economic activity should, of course, be significantly different from today if these commitments were adequately technologically targeted and designed for structural economic development, which means that a lot of money went into investments that were not intended to do so. It is therefore naive to talk at this time about some very rapid and strong cyclical rise in private sector investments in Slovenia, because companies will first have to make a certain amount of money available in order to continue their investments. If we compare Slovenia with the worst countries, we find that we are somewhere in the middle, but if we look at good countries, we are under them. Slovenia's advantage over other countries, and this is important, at this point, is that the population is significantly less indebted than the average of the Eurogroup or even the countries that are better developed or also the countries that are less developed. I am saying all this because I am going to make some comments, some proposals that have been made in the SDS on what should be done at this moment for short-term economic policy measures. Finally, perhaps only information about the growth of credits in the economy, which is expected to be extremely poor in Slovenia. If you look at the growth of credits in Slovenia in the last two years, it is significantly better, or much better than what happened in the euro area, it is said that despite the total delay in lending the euro area Slovenia is holding back relatively solid growth resulting from certain measures taken. As far as the proposed measures are concerned, after reading the text, the power to say that this path is methodologically better prepared than it was in the past. It has been clear that man is better off than in the past when these measures were proposed. The problem is basically that we still have conceptual differences. This fundamental conceptual difference is that you expect at least those who have been the authors of this report to accelerate economic activity by reducing taxes, broaden the tax base and thereby increase the public finances. The images you had seen before for the period 2006 to 2008, when this experiment was made, were only aimed at lowering tax rates, without any other structural changes in the economy. Finally, the tax base was lower, the revenues were lower, and this well-known Laffer curve proved in practice to be a loss of income rather than a significant increase in economic activity and higher tax revenues. That's how bad the data shows. It could therefore be agreed that measures should be taken, provided that emergency measures in the area of reduction and adjustment in the structure of public expenditure are first taken and then any additional adjustments made in the field of taxation. By the way, if you look at what the biggest tax relief is right now, this is the biggest tax relief for businesses, which means that companies with losses do not pay taxes and will bear the cumulative loss they create during this period over the coming years and will not pay taxes at the beginning when they show profits. This is the so-called transfer of cumulative losses in the system. This is a significantly greater tax relief than all those partial ones that you also mention in your material. With regard to the restriction that I am going in line, therefore, there is a fundamental conceptual difference in the restriction and obviously we will remain here on two sides, as regards how we see the possibility of two basic policies operating, this is a tax policy on the one hand and a public expenditure policy on the other, and their inter-time coordination when it comes to action. As far as limiting public spending and borrowing is concerned, we have an idea of how to do this, but we do not apply the criterion as proposed by you, this is the share of public funds and public expenditure in a social product, for one simple reason. So in this fraction, one quantity is not under our control. This is a social product and it is pointless to do such a comparison because you simply do not control the denominator if you are already trying to control the counter. And what has happened in recent years? In the cyclical momentum, public finances seemed to have been greatly improved in relation to the social product. However, when the cycle was interrupted, it became clear that this was not sustainable and that 6% of the growth in the economy in Slovenia was not sustainable for the longer term, on the assumption that it was also made. So our proposal in the documents that are in the Government and which will also be in the Development Planning Regulation is to take into account the expenditure that can, in its growth rates, move to the highest level of the potential growth of the social product. This is a different category than the current annual social product. That's the first time. Secondly, corrected for the necessary reduction of the primary deficit in public finances, which is the only important because it excludes interest and interest payments. Thirdly, corrected for that urgent reduction in public debt, which policy provides that it will be able to provide for the Maastricht criteria and that Slovenia will be able to operate normally on international financial markets. It seems to us that such a criterion is better, more substantive and, of course, completely under the control of the one who runs economic policy and thus, of course, affects economic flows. What is important is that this moment of coordination is ongoing for the 2011 and 2012 budget, not in the way of linear reallocation of resources within the state budget, but in view of the fact that each user has to define the programmes and sub-programmes he wants to finance. These programmes, of course, will not be financed according to the principle of indices for the past period, but according to the quality and priorities of the state budget, which have already been quantifiedly announced or presented in the exit strategy. This is the case with regard to the first proposed measure marked with point 4.1. With regard to point 4.2, I think you haven't even written any specific explanations in this point, and I have to say that what is written is funny. Why, though, was 2008 an appropriate year for some criteria, for the number of certain institutions in the system? I must say, this is a completely unclear criterion. Anyway, maybe it's a good idea. But if we look at what those fundamental changes are that are going on. It is not about increasing the number of employees or the mass of wages, but about separating the functions of the State in which they are to be separated. One is politics, the other is governance, and the third is control. As it has been in many ways so far, when this has always been interconnected and inseparable, things are now happening that we have known in the past. The RS Capital Investment Management Agency has its powers and tasks very clear, despite the fact that you did not agree to it when it was accepted, it is also considered a public fund for the management of the state's immovable property. Today we have heard criticism of how public immovable property was managed and still dominated. With regard to public procurement, I must say that I do not agree with what Mr Janša said, that the system should be decentralised because it has been so far and has shown its quality in the narrative. This personal responsibility that has been discussed is, however, more for pleasant listening than for actual events in practice. If we look at what's going on in public procurement. Most of the problems are in the area of health care, in the field of transport, where it is obvious that the decentralised way of public procurement leads to all-infringements of regulations across all commissions and other authorities we have to control. You probably know that from your practice in the past. The Agency for Competition and Competition Control should be an agency outside the Ministry, which is perfectly clear if the Ministry is at the same time in many economic operators on the market. It must be hard to understand that an institution within the Ministry can carry out its work independently. It must also decide on matters in which the same ministry and its minister are involved in a collective economic operator. I think it's basic hygiene, which is welcome. As far as the next chapter on the preparation of major state projects is concerned, I think that, apart from what you wrote yourself, that you had prepared in the past, it was adopted yesterday in the Act on the Placement of Objects in a Space that would actually only allow what from the source would have been given to build something in Slovenia within a shorter period of three years. So far, the average time limit has been five years, and all the desires for the construction of a second track, an energy facility, a power line and the like are merely pious desires under such an arrangement as is still in force. The new law coming into Parliament is trying to regulate on this segment those changes that will allow, taking into account property and other rights, improving procedures and faster action in this area. In addition, the preparation of the Dars Act is under consideration because it no longer meets the time requirement, especially with such accumulation of public debt or an indirect public debt as it has incurred over the last four billion years, which, of course, cannot be covered by the current toll system within one reasonable time frame under normal market conditions. In addition, if there is an extraordinary meeting in Parliament, there will be two materials, which will show that one of the following points is the activity of the Bank's SID, a developmental financial platform that sympathizes with the functioning of the agencies in this area, which are scattered and substantive, instrumental, procedural and otherwise unrelated. About a billion euro of money is available each year in this area, as well as this year for development funding. It is not true that there is no money in the area of development finance, but it is true that this money is relatively and irrationally being channelled, mainly through grants and, to a large extent, too little through a combination of repayable and non-refundable funds that would allow EU funds to be used better. For this purpose, a system or platform has been adopted, as it does not need law, it only needs good and better organisation, no additional resources and no additional staff, but better coordination and cooperation of institutions established in the past. Now normal cooperation should be established between them, and this is what we are trying to achieve. With regard to the establishment of other banks, I would advise you to contact Banka Slovenije, which is the only institution that can give a substantive opinion on whether the situation on the financial system is such that it also requires action, as far as I translate this into Slovenian, the resolution of the bad portfolio. Does this require a special state institution, or can the banks themselves do so? I'll leave that to you. I think that this is significantly better if it is necessary to do so in any bank and as a specific element outside the balance sheet, of course banks in special support, about which there is knowledge and experience of how it is done. Until now, the Bank of Slovenia has not informed anyone that there is such a situation in the system to require such a systemic measure. The government is prepared, however, if this is to be done in a substantive and technical manner. This was point 4.4. The following is point 4.5, which we referred to as a reduction in the tax base. It is a reduction in excise duties, a reduction in the level of corporate income tax by 5 % of the points, an exemption from innovation income, an introduction of 40 % of relief, an investment in fixed assets and an increase of 100 % in the amount invested in research and development. This is a basic dilemma that I mentioned earlier, where you do not persuade us with your arguments. We probably can't convince you either, but there's a big difference. These measures will not, in our view, come to the conclusion that I would not say that this is your opinion, the changes you are considering by these measures. After all, many of the tax reliefs that were made in 2007 and were in themselves useful and welcome, at which time they accounted for about 2.5% of the social product, reflected very little in increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, or virtually nothing if we look at the period over the next few years. At the same time, they have caused, because the structure of public finances has not adapted, the deterioration of complete public finances already before 2009 and before the crisis. If you look at the last quarter in 2008, there was already a government deficit of 3%, while it was 1.7% annually. So we do not see the need to lower the corporate income tax rate by another 5 points. I said that this moment we have the greatest possible tax relief by transferring corporate losses over the next year and, of course, the tax base is significantly lower for taxpayers. This year's corporate income tax drop was exceptional, for a simple reason, because the tax base from last year's year has fallen dramatically this year. Therefore, there is no reason to reduce the tax rate in particular, since this will not increase the tax base within a reasonable period. Other partial tax solutions, however, are only an extreme increase in percentages in those segments where percentages have already been reduced, for example when it comes to tax reliefs for fixed assets, for investment in research and the like. If you are interested, you can look at a lot of material gathered, international, not ours, which speaks about whether selective tax reliefs bring, globally speaking, a significant contribution to economic growth or not. With regard to the imposition of flat-rate taxation on independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises, we agree in this case. It is necessary to find a technical solution for the fact that this flat rate, introduced for small entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises, will also be implemented in practice easily and qualitatively. The problem is that it is necessary to know certain assumptions, certain data by group of employees or economically active ones, in order for this system to operate in practice without a pronounced tax invasion. With regard to point 4.13, the State's direct guarantees are for projects. Like I said, here you can look at the data from this material of the development finance platform. Last year’s SID Bank – of course without SID Bank’s credit activity in 2009 – would have been negative – invested and financed around €700 million in the development of small, medium and larger enterprises. It is also very active in so far as it is afforded financial opportunities for securing non-commercial risks in the external markets. Of course, it is impossible to secure billions of transactions, such as those now under discussion, with an institution that has 300 million capital and some over 70 million reserves for such risks. This must also be taken into account if we do not want to have any bad banks in this case. Point 4.14 is similar to point 4.13. Point 4.15 – introduction of tax breaks for newly established companies. In principle, we do not mind, although this measure will not bring about exceptional additional incentives. You are also giving some numbers, or we have calculated that the cost is about €14 million. The effect, however, on how businesses can be misused and closed in order to obtain relief for so-called tax holidays, I suppose, for the first or second year, is also, of course, the issue of the ability of the tax administration to do so properly. Regarding the increased rate of depreciation, Slovenia is where Germany, France and Hungary are. I do not see any particular reason why in this case it should go through these comparable countries and the rate of depreciation for a short period of time. As a result, there will be no significant changes in investment. The reduction of administrative burdens in the economy, we have adopted concrete material in this regard, namely, materials on reducing procedures and removing administrative barriers, which can also be obtained in Parliament at an extraordinary meeting where we went, not by these research methods of determining competitiveness, but by the methods used by the World Bank, which are not surveyed, but are prepared on the so-called hard indicators and by those ten indicators used by the Institute, we have also put forward requirements and a plan for those activities that ministries must do this year and next year to improve this picture in this area. In this case, without any specific additional financial means of employment or any other costs that would cause it, the effect may, I suppose, be quite good in the area of construction permits, such as registering property in the land book as regards the acquisition of finance by small and medium-sized enterprises, not to mention other matters that are in this document and you will be able to look at it if you want. In addition, colleagues and colleagues will be able to say what is envisaged in the area of reducing these administrative barriers as an action plan. It is important, given that there is much to be said, about changes in public administration and in the public sector in general, that the OECD mission dealing with the so-called "public government review" in Slovenia will be in a hurry at the end of July, that is to say by reviewing the governance of public services in individual countries. We have obtained analyses for Finland and the Netherlands and I think the analysis will be very welcome for Slovenia as well. It will be ready by the end of the year, and it will give a lot of answers to the principle of how many people are too, too few, whether they are doing good or not, whether they are well or poorly organised, or whether the ministries are too small or too small to be able to discuss later in Parliament, if you want to be organised, substantively correct and methodologically systematic, but not as recently in practice, that each time should have a comment on this area as well. As far as the consequences of the estimates you're predicting are concerned, I'm assuming that the underlying effect you're suggesting in the material is about a billion and 700, I think cumulatively, or 600 million or almost 700 million in one year. This year, the first draft of measures, mentioned below 4.1, is likely to be combined with the last 4.20, because those involved in this area have no particular impact on reducing public financial expenditure. We will also, on our part, try to calculate as much as possible on the basis of what you have presented and will also, within the framework of the 2011 and 2012 budget, also be clearly recorded in reducing public financial spending. As the President of the Government has said in these interviews that you anticipate, the power to compare these numbers and arguments will also be able to find out where someone is standing and how relevant the indications are in substance and also in technical terms. So, in summary, I think the situation in Europe is such that no one can claim that recovery is final and safe. We have data coming from Germany and some other countries where economic expectations are back on the decline, not acceleration, which means that Slovenia will have certain consequences. It should be said that this moment in Slovenia is growing industrial production and exports at least as fast as in Germany or slightly faster in the last two months. So there's a resuscitation. It is also true that last year's data, in some ways chronic evidence of economic policy weaknesses, on the decline of a social product, is half explained by changes in stocks. We need to be careful when making final decisions on what is going on with economic movements, as data on the movement of a social product will also be corrected in return, as is always the case. So let us wait and be surprised in the coming quarters as to whether such a fall occurred last year, whether it will remain that way throughout the year and what will be the movement in the next quarter of this year. Now for a brief answer, because Mr Janša also mentioned the first quarter for public finances this year. According to the cash flow principle, it's exactly what he said. This is one quarter and public finances have one very solid feature of seasonal movement throughout the year, where usually the first quarter is always the worst in every year if you also look for many years ago to then normalize during the year. It normalizes to the extent that it can be done, regardless of your mistrust, which is also foreseen in the balance for this year. I'd like to say why, unique, the first quarter in this case was worse. On the income side, due to the refund of the overpaid tax on profits or corporate tax, which amounted to EUR 300 million. And secondly, due to the return on income, which amounted to EUR 44 million. These are two elements on the revenue side, as these revenues are less than €344 million and one important reason why the proposal for a rebalancing has come up. On the expenditure side, there is a regression of EUR 30 million, an allowance for pensioners of EUR 134 million and interest of 35% in all the annual interest paid in the first quarter of EUR 380 million, a total of EUR 540 million. This is now an explanation of what looks dramatic at first sight, but I can say that it is relatively normal. However, I am sure that throughout the year the situation will be as foreseen by the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u28	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u29	Nice greetings to the distinguished minister, the distinguished minister, the secretary, the distinguished Mr. President! Last year, we adopted a second budget rebalancing. At the time when I had my own debate, the President of the Government was also present, and I told him, that was at the time when we had a strike in Mura, Gorenje, in these most turbulent times, that the day is when we have to be responsible and actually tell the real picture of the country. From this conclusion, which I have also made last year, the proposal that we have consistently proposed in the Slovenian People's Party last year, and also this year, that there is a real need to bite into this unpopular cut, is said to reduce public spending, and that there is no time to delay. I also argue today that the introductory presentations presented by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, Slovenia and Slovenia did not give us or did not give us a real picture, because I am sure that this real picture is much worse and sharper than it wants to be. This is also appropriate for dialogue at such a level in Slovenian society. Why am I saying this picture is even worse? In the context of these figures, which have already been given in different graphs, in different ways, it should be further said that 2010, at least in this balance sheet, is also the year in which Slovenia plans to have more than €625 million in surplus on the European Union's balance sheet. This is 1.8% of GDP, or otherwise, if we did not have this profit, in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia this year would be on the other side of such spending, taking into account only this revenue, which is 2.4 billion euros in deficits. This is 7% of GDP, or else, when we are always doing comparisons with GDP, it is right to explain in this very simple way to Slovenians and Slovenians. Public spending in Slovenia goes in the way that a person would pay 750 euros and its consumption is thousands of euros. I fear that such a trend will not continue for many years. I am also extremely skeptical whether this billion euros from Europe will indeed be made available this year in the context of drawing on European funds, and it is also right to say when these projects started. I am also a functioning policy at the local level, so I know which projects will be implemented this year, and I fear that this vacuum, which was in last year's year as well as in this year's year when the calls were made and most of the municipalities have reached negative conclusions or conclusions to supplement this balance again in the future. However, it is necessary to know that there can be such a big gap, it is said that we will get so much more in one year than we will pay in one year, because over the entire budget period there is expected to be about 300 million a year more. What will be the picture of public finances in Slovenia after 2013 when Slovenia will no longer be such a large net recipient, and I am very afraid. The figures around the investments were also mentioned today. There is a lot of investment this year, but just from this data, there will be so much investment in Slovenia in this year. A lot of European funds go through the budget, and that is why it also appears in this balance sheet. Otherwise, this year’s investment cycle is very poor. As for the answers given by the Government to this crisis, we are listening to various ways and attempts, on the one hand, to accelerated economic growth, on the other hand to reducing public finances. We will probably have to pick up a combined model where we will definitely have to bite into consumption, and on the other hand we will also have to do something to increase economic activity in the country. What the Government has now done with the abolition of these investments and the extension of next year, I fear that it will have really negative consequences and that the real problem of the crisis in Slovenia will also take place in one part because of such a defensive policy of the government throughout the year and now in particular with this rebalancing. I am afraid that Slovenian construction will be in very serious difficulties in the second half of this year, and many will not withstand these pressures because there will be much less economic cycle and too late to call for funds for the municipalities. When talking to and drawing up this picture, it is very interesting and even more alarming that designers speak the same way. As little as is currently being designed in Slovenia, it has not been designed in the last decade. What designers are designing today will not be able to do until two or three years later. When this cycle may turn in the opposite direction, we will have consequences because of such pessimism, expressed primarily by the Government's policy. On a very illustrative occasion or two, I can say where I absolutely disagree with the budgetary measures and, on the other hand, with the amendment of the operational programmes. EUR 60 million has been removed or transferred from operational programmes under the third development axis project. Allow me to use the expression that it is a floscule, because it is said that the government is looking to go from wall to knowledge. In one of these cases, where most of the walls were removed, the third development axis was mentioned. Dear colleagues, I think that this is absolutely not the right way and that cohesion funds are intended for those areas where development is the least and if we look at the Slovenian space, Koroška and Bela Krajina are the region that definitely need the third development axis to join the highway cross first and will remain in handicap for the next decade. What someone is now trying to explain to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes is that the third axis, I don't know that the tunnel under the Gorjani will be built from a public private partnership, would ask him for responsibility, because if the highway cross were entirely the subject of a call, it might be possible to talk about such a matter. However, to build uninteresting arms with a public private partnership for a private person, let me use a milder expression that this is a common deception for my notions. Another issue that I have come from in the Posavig environment for the last year and a half, we have been working with the Slovenian government, the Ministry of Environment and Space for almost two years now, is the construction of hydro power plants on the lower Sava. This is a national project with very large characteristics, so that the whole of Slovenia can support it more. In order to move from the lower Sava to Central Sava as soon as possible, probably to Mura, but in the Slovenian government this project has been literally blocked for a year and a half. It is now happening to us that the construction of the energy work financed by Energy is going on normally, while the infrastructure part financed through the MoP by Infra is certainly at least one year behind because of the complications that are taking place within the framework of the Government and the opposition to this project. Finally, the situation will be that, once in Posav, we will organise the opening of a hydroelectric power plant that will be dry, because the hydroelectric power plant will be built and the water that runs past this hydroelectric power plant could produce half a million euros of electricity per month. On the other hand, the funds currently being invested would have been around 20 to 30 million in terms of significantly lower prices, but they would have come back through the concession fee. I am talking about this project because I am sure that there is no better infrastructure and energy project in Slovenia today and there is no greater reason for the Government to invest. The Slovenian government prefers to accelerate the subsidisation of such resources as photovoltaics and the like. We have done our best to simulate, and we have also presented to the Prime Minister what it means to invest in a hydropower plant or in photovoltaics. Investment in electricity equivalent costs half a billion and the state will pay for one billion subsidies over the next 15 years. This will not be paid by the state, but by the Slovenian electricity consumers. That is why I think we should find out what these strategic projects are and do everything we can to make them happen. As there are no projects on the road, I also mentioned several projects on the Committee on Local Self-Government that I can ensure that there are building permits and could be implemented very quickly on the road if there is an interest in this direction. The next response given by the Government at the time of the rebalancing is an increase in excise duties. Let's see what's going on in last year in Slovenia. First of all, the amendment of legislation in the field of the implementation of public economic services has made it legal to introduce total amortisation into the watercourses. Slovenian economists and the whole policy are now angry at municipalities that are inflammatory with public economic services, especially the price of water. It is not an irritation, but it is followed by legislation and regulations which ordered municipalities to include complete depreciation in the price. This means an increase of 20, 30 % for the consumer. Because that's not enough to go into excise policy now, so let's first raise excise duties on propulsion fuels. This has already proved to be nonsense, and today it has also been explained how many litres of oil are now being sold primarily to those who are transiting and polluting Slovenia and the influx of excise duties is decreasing. Through the measures that are part of this budget rebalancing, we increase the excise duty on gas, so to speak, the heating of people, the burning oil – who have no gas and will pay for it through the fuel oil. Strange that the trees of those who prepare or prepare themselves have not been taxed. The next example is electricity. What we are doing now in Slovenia in the field of energy will be paid as a result in the coming years. Slovenian energy has energy companies today. Those who produce electricity receive about 460 million per year for their product are said to be produced electricity. With this excise policy, which we will introduce with this rebalancing, the country with 120 million excise duties will sit on this 460 million. It is said that we encourage for more than a quarter or devalue the product of the plants, because in the end there are two options and the last one will be through payment to consumers. As has already been said today, if we add more plumbing to this collage, more than EUR 20 to 30 per month is essential for an individual. Let me tell you in the case of a company operating in Krske, this is Vipap, what this means in the field of economy. Vipap, which employs 450 people, has a production industry, an energy intensive issue, paper production, uses 170,000 megawatt hours of electricity, which is 12 euros per megawatt hour. Through this policy, we will gain €2 million per year in the budget, which is €2 million 40,000, but if we convert it, it amounts to €377 and €380 per employee. Go ask what is the salary of people working in the processing industry on paper production, I am speaking on one occasion, and this will be the case that is more energy intensive for production and is literally doomed to failure. What we're doing with this excise policy, I think it's largely an intervention on the one hand to the most risky groups, because if 30 euros per month is burdened by a household where there is, I don't know, the income of a household of thousands of euros, or if, with 30 euros, a family where income is, I don't know, 2 or 3,000 euros, that's a significant difference, and we're taking some bread and milk, but someone will be able to afford more. We do the same in entrepreneurship. Where there is more work, where there is more energy, where there are even more difficult situations to deal with, we will condemn a company to failure. So I must say that I absolutely disagree with these measures and policies seen through this budget rebalancing. Today this has been shown and you are all talking about the need for structural changes. When someone says that, there's an immediate revolt and a threat to sentences on the road, and I think that unless we really talk about it responsibly, that will be the response. The response is very negative. A lot of people want to retire this year because they're running from pension reform. This is the way to work when first within the Government in two and a half years, if we are looking at key ministers who should lead economic policy or appointed ministers for development, I am very afraid. For if we look at Mr Gaspari and consider how many times he has been in conflict with Mr Križanič, what happened to the dispute with Mrs Plosteiner, his secretary, with Minister Gjerkesh, who had to clarify in Brussels what was the relationship between Minister Lahovnik, Minister Golobic of Teš 6, what was the attitude of Minister Lahovnik against the President of the Government, against Minister Križanič, when someone did not even come to the tops of the coalition and so on. Dear colleagues, this is not a time of crisis. This time of crisis would need a regulated government where you could sit together as long as you wanted and come forward in your coalition with common uniform measures. Clearly, however, the coalition is, as someone has commented in recent days, built on the past, the roots of this coalition and not the future, economic and political measures and structures of the state are said to be there. Therefore, I am very afraid that, despite the deadline offered, we have already experienced a simultaneous one of the ministers who spoke in the plural with the actions of one of the parties who gave their views. I really don't know if this government is so expedient that from yesterday to today it's been given the government's views. He has identified himself and explained the conceptual differences between these measures, and I think that that godly desire for a given hand can only be a godly desire. The other truth is that it is not enough for us to be united in the government, in the coalition and in Parliament. The measures we need to take in Slovenia today must unite the Slovenian people. Because these are painful measures, measures that we will face to see that the economic paradigm has probably been wrong for decades and not a year of one government, the second year of another government. Perhaps even the European's expectations are greater than those of the European economy. It may be necessary to do what is sometimes most difficult to reconcile our expectations with those offered by the economy. Today in Slovenia we certainly spend much more than we produce and our expectations are significantly higher than the real capacities of the Slovenian economy. With the policies we are leading, if you want, or economically or ideologically, in this House, we are merely taking the necessary and necessary steps to deepen and understand the Slovenian and Slovenian people. I will not vote for this balance, but I will vote against it because I think that measures such as reducing investment, increasing the most vulnerable groups, both in the economic field and in the society, are the wrong direction of this government. I hope that in the rebalancing of two things that I also expect and assess that some things are too optimistically indicated on the revenue side, what has also happened in the area of social dialogue, so that the 2011 and 2012 budget, which we will soon get on the shelves, will plan more realistically and align spending with Slovenia's capabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u30	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, the Minister, Mrs Pavlinič Krebs, asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u31	Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your words! Dear Members and Members! There have been many debates, already on the Committee and even today, announced to the Government on the growth of the professions of work. The increase in labour costs, which, of course, are influenced by the level of wages and employment in the public sector as a whole. From this place once and for all, and I hope that this explanation will come across the open ears, I would explain that the issue of labour costs has been a fundamental issue since the day that government took office. We also agreed on the preparation of the 2010 rebalancing process with the public sector trade unions for the second time, because in this 2010 budget, on the basis of a collective agreement in the public sector, the contract concluded by the previous government in September 2008 with the trade unions had to fully address the macroeconomic imbalances in the country. So spoke Article 50, last paragraph of the collective agreement. The salary reform, which began in September 2008, had significant public financial effects already in the 2009 budget – in an extremely difficult, crisis year, when public financial revenues were significantly lower than they needed to be realised. The perceptions that the Government has not started social dialogue in time are not in place. The dynamics set out to eliminate wage imbalances in the collective agreement were as follows. The first quarter was abolished by September and meant an increase in wages by almost 10% and this effect of the increase in the salaries of public servants was recorded by the expenditure side of the budget in 2009. We all know that the impact of the increase goes one year ahead next year. On 1 January 2009, a second elimination of wage imbalances took place. Our government took office at the end of November 2008. In one month we were unable to prepare an intervention law through the business procedure and through Parliament to halt payment of the second quarter of the elimination of wage imbalances. One is heavy 100 and several million euros, which means raising wages and also the basis for calculating allowances, positional duty, etc. As early as Christmas 2008, we talked with the President of the Government, asked the public sector unions to agree that a second quarter would not be realized due to the 2009 crisis. Since there was no agreement, this could not be stopped technically by the intervention law. This intervention would constitute an exceptional violence against social dialogue and, in fact, a major problem because we should withdraw from such a contract. The collective agreement sets a six-month notice period and obliges the government party. As soon as the second quarter was realized in January, when wages grew by 10% this year, such as in 2008, due to this realization, i.e. the abolition of the second quarter, we started the first negotiations with the unions. To reduce wage growth from 10% to 6.5%, public officials have in 2009 cancelled the alignment of wages with inflation this year. They also waived 2% of regular performance payments, the increased volume of work was paid to a reduced extent and the third quarter planned for 2009 was agreed not to be implemented by agreement with the unions. With this we have gained 100 million already at the 2009 rebalancing to consolidate the second quarter of the elimination of wage imbalances. For 2010, given the agreement to fully implement salary reform, we have two quarters left, together with an increase in wages of 250 million, and a resumption of talks has begun immediately. Remember in 2009, when the unions said we were holding a gun to their necks, when we said that in 2010 it was not possible to implement a contractual provision in a collective agreement, as this is unsustainable for the Government. In 2010, if we did not agree and agree, the wages should increase by more than €400 million. In the amount of 250 million due to the elimination of wage imbalances, coordination with inflation, harmonisation of the amount of the regression, promotions set by the GSP as the legislator did not want. My predecessor, Minister Virant, says that when assessing employees, we urgently need to set an upper limit on excellent ones, but that works today. More than 50% is excellent, they advance by two pay grade, they raise by 8%, and this works at monthly level at the rate of an increase in wages in each year when people advance by 55 million euros. In short, if we did not agree, we should provide in the 2010 budget, which was drawn up by the National Assembly in November 2009, funds to raise the salaries of public servants by 10%. The deal was a success. We moved the dynamics of departures to October 2010 and October 2011. We agreed that regular work performance is also not paid in 2010 and 2011. In 2009, the unions insisted on at least half-coordinated salaries in 2010, and the government agreed to do so. The Wage System Act is on the agenda of the July session. Here are the financial effects for 25 million at the annual level. The government has also agreed in this part not to freeze the promotion of employees. This budget therefore takes into account that the salaries of public servants are not paid 2% of their regular performance, that they cannot be paid in full an increased amount of work in order not to eliminate the salary imbalances which were fully expected in 2010 under the contract to achieve overall harmonisation only by half, and that the annual leave refund in 2010 is paid at a reduced level rather than at the minimum wage. Therefore, the budget lines you have before you today and we are not changing them include this agreement with the public sector unions. On the basis of this agreement, we have managed to reduce over 10% to 2.3%. You can even see the first quarter when promotions have not yet been recorded that the wages of employees reflect negative growth. Mr. Vizjak, when you showed the chart two days ago on Odessa, how our wages are growing, you showed only for 2009. But you didn't show for 2010. For if they were correct, we should also say that the increase in wages in 2009 was a record of the action of your government, the elimination of disproportionately high over 100 million in 2008, and we carried this burden to 2009. That burden wasn't the only one. By 100 million, on 1 January the second quarter was eliminated, but we reduced it to 6.5% by agreement, otherwise it would be 10% growth, and this is the real graph, Mr Vizjak, see, this is the real graph. But this yellow line is still your government. This steeply falling line is the actions of our government, and I ask that we are right here, and when you have agreed, you have not agreed as you should have agreed. For four years, public servants gave up up up to half of inflation coordination. During this time, 240 million euros have been raised. This money should be in line. This fund, even though the law provided for it to be, was not formed. Since you have probably realized that the single payment of 450 million and 500 million resources for the elimination of imbalances has been completed, not only 240, but already Minister Virant has left me an estimate of 450 at the table due to the many anomalies we have found today at the evaluation, we can talk peacefully about the effect when we are fully implementing the reform, that we are talking about an increase in wages today, which is 4 billion, by 500 million, so half billion, if we realize it as it is, it was not good that you did not, when you agreed to trade unions, to people in a reasonable amount, that is 240 million, as it would be only right to share in the elimination of internal imbalances, you also paid. But the dynamics have been shifted, not on the basis of a law where the Government can act when it comes into Parliament has a majority, but unconditionally on the basis of a contractual provision in 2009 and 2010. The government's point of view that she didn't act on time here is out of place. Mr. Marble also said the government was late. The government did not miss a second, but the former government could, when it was still doing business, because the crisis was absolutely showing up, start negotiations with the trade unions by 21 November 2008, when we took an oath and would have set the way somewhere. For you know that this dynamic has been in the contract and we have the effect of the second elimination of wage imbalances absolutely could not stop, even though we have spoken with the unions. The unions were against it and the law could no longer be brought to Parliament. So I ask only for correctness. We now have to deal with this issue on our own, but I do not guarantee anything because I am not such by nature, but not to deceive the Slovenian public. [[advertising from the hall]] I never said it wasn't our problem right now. But don't say it's not a problem and you didn't leave it. I wouldn't do that, and so far we have an outstanding problem when employees say and ask for something else back. You know, you never know when a crisis is going to happen to you and when it's not good as a politician to say that whatever the macroeconomic situation is, something has to happen and that's even a contractual arrangement. This is a difficult question for this government. You don't want to help us do this, do you? For the anomalies that are in law and which are now being abolished in the work only with the amendment of the Public Sector Wage System Act, where you are absolutely making amendments, where we cannot even lower the positional allowances, because today every fourth positional allowance, which has three leaders, is about the allowances for the organisational units of 20%, is reduced here to 12%. Of course, the unions did not agree with us, but a lot of European countries in the austerity measures lower their positional allowances, even when they organisationally find that people are leading and not working and deciding. You know, when you give someone a management allowance, the fourth person who runs three is already one little boss, he doesn't seem to have to be so much involved, maybe he coordinates a little bit more than he works, and that's what managers fully use. This means a 5% increase in wages for every 4, 12% for every 30th, and that means an explosion. We've done a very thorough analysis to show us that these institutes have been used up to the last branch. I even understand the managers, and it's up to us to make a difference. You're absolutely opposed, you're making amendments, and you're saying that the government has murdered social dialogue because it has not aligned itself with the unions in this solution. This solution is professionally inappropriate, so we are improving it and this solution is a public financial problem. In the matter of seriousness, when you say, urgent improvements in the pay system to make the best get more, and those who do worse get a little less. We have proposed in the novel of the WSPS, and now that we are coordinating with the Trade Unions we are not successful, which means that we are going out of the balance sheet because what you have enacted in the framework of the pay reform means a balance sheet, that is what we all now find because it has been agreed with the Trade Unions. Trade unions tend to make as few employees as possible hurt, and we want to change it with a novel. There is more variable work and fewer fixed supplements, which are of course very large. The unions don't agree. I am counting on support here, given that you have proposed that this should be one of the measures, it is subject to modernisation in terms of improvements to the provisions of the law in the public sector wage system and trade unions have this on the table. Because the opposition does not offer support for this austerity measure to this government in the case of the opposition's positional supplements. The question of employment, which has a profound impact on labour costs. The fundamental question raised by this government when it came to the mandate is how to tackle the rise in the number of employees, because when we watched the dynamics, what happened to you, and now also to us, we found exactly the same and at the same height, according to the JAPES data, the following. Since 2004, on average, the number of public servants in the public sector has increased by 1% each year, or around thousands of 500 per year. We have made a thorough analysis of what is going on for our mandate. This represents a 1% increase in the number of public servants, which means providing an additional EUR 40 million per year for the salaries of these employees on average. We've also reached conclusions. The tools of the previous government were fully taken over and demanded. In the civil part of the state administration, which can be controlled by the Ministry of Public Administration, we also carried out this control and reduced the number of employees by 1% at the annual level. But we have also asked all other managers in other areas of service activities, in health care, education, education, social protection, that labour costs due to lack of public funds should also, of course, be obtained in a way that does not increase the number of employees. What did we find out? It shows that in fact we recorded the same growth every year by 1% of the increase in public sector employees. But after a thorough analysis, I can report the following. From December 2008 to April 2010, in the civil part of the state administration, the number of employees decreased by slightly less than 300. We were successful here. But in mass, it doesn't really mean anything. Employment in the Slovenian Army, the Police and the Enforcement Authority. Remember what the protests were, because the Ministry of Justice was a quota, that was your government's conclusion, for this uniformed, indispensable part of the cost of employment in administrative work. Then we had to deal with it. In this part, we allowed the Slovenian Army, despite the greater needs, an additional 400 jobs, in the 300 police and around 86 in the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions. All four years in the army, when you were in power, there was no employment, even though people were invited to join the army. At the time of the crisis, the Ministry of Defence took a great interest. This was one of the reasons why the government allowed this scale, the minister, however, saved on labour costs, because when officers were leaving and young soldiers were coming, the amount of wage funds did not increase here, although we are recording an increase in the number of employees. The same applies to the organisation carried out by the Minister of the Interior. Thus, the growth of employees on the other hand does not necessarily mean an increase in labour costs. Then education and education – 811 new employees. There was a remarkable measure, namely a free kindergarten for another child. Undoubtedly, in autumn 2008, when we analyzed where these increases in the number of education workers are happening, we found about 5,000 new enrolments in kindergartens, more than 290 new open departments and more than 700, that is, almost 800 new employees in these new departments, it is the teachers. What could be seen here by local communities that provide conditions for preschool protection? Of course, this information is recorded within Ipes when the number of hours is increased. So to close the kindergarten door, that's not it. We must therefore provide pre-school education and allow young people to be actively employed. There is a justifiable increase in the number of employees. During these two years of social protection, 428 are newly employed. According to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when a thorough analysis was made, so many new homes have been built that you have built a private and state initiative during your term of office. Now it's no use to think that people got a job there, and the obvious would be even worse if they left their homes empty. So the provision and satisfaction of the needs of the elderly for home care is increasing, and again we can say that additional employment is justified here. In the area of health – 456 new employees. The success of the investment cycle was noted mainly by improvements in public institutions in the area of the Clinical Centre, the Oncology Institute and the Paediatric Clinic. Here new capacities have been equipped with new employees, and this can again be an objective answer to this question. In other cases, there is no increase in the number of employees. Agency. Look, this government didn't hire any extra people for one agency. The fact that we have achieved the goal and reduced it every year in the official and civil part of the state administration, as we have set ourselves, also shows that we have not increased the official work. The condition that the Agency survived the government hearing was that it was a completely neutral operation. Next, when you propose that the government optimize the functioning of the state administration by also reducing the number of ministries, I would like to announce to you two other specialised persons of public law. However, you need to know that these people will be publicly neutral and also staffed in the future means a reduction in the number of employees. It is our interest to allow, by centralising the support tasks that are being carried out today in the field ministries of a centralised person of public law, the preparation of a process of pooling the sectoral ministries in 2012 with the amendment of the Law on State Administration. Not only do decentralised and dispersed public procurement, real estate management, hiring contracts, which fall under this concept, the implementation of human resources policy, the implementation of information support, not show positive effects. Each ministry is more or less able to manage each of the areas listed above. The review by the Member States of the European Union shows that they centralise all these tasks due to synergies. Our ambition is, not only on paper, as you tell us to stop writing, the laws are, one is in public debate, the deadlines are, in 2011, these persons of specialized law are starting to work. This is a big change, a big step forward, because ministries are canceling these tasks. This political will has never been in the past, but now it is because we must do it because it is impossible to allow everyone to do it because it is less rational than it is more rationally centralised and even more unified, effective and more. In 2012, the conditions for the integration of ministries will certainly be developed and new systems will be developed in this part. The 2012 budget will already take account of the reduction in the number of employees also under this heading. So much for an explanation. I hope you understand now why wages are growing by 2.3% in the current budget and why we did not reach out to this part of the balance that was fully agreed with the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. Janša has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. At the outset, I would like to draw attention to some of the irregularities in the explanation of the proposal for a budget rebalancing, and also to some of the dangers that can be explained from this explanation. The explanatory statement on page 3 states that "fiscal policy has not sufficiently benefited from high economic growth in recent years when tax reform was being prepared and structural reforms of public financial expenditure should be prepared in parallel with tax reform". I don't know why it's only about the last few years and the 2006 tax reform. Slovenia recorded an average economic growth of around 4% in that decade until 2008. For a decade, not just during our term of office, when this growth has actually been significantly higher. Slovenia not only implemented the tax reform in 2006 with the entry into force of January 2007, but also implemented it several years earlier. It also carried out a tax reform or tax anti-reform in 2004, when the government coalition was in a similar composition as today or in fact in the same composition, only two parties to this government coalition were still together. Remember the effects of that tax anti-reform. The first month of the new mandate we had to amend the legislation because the capital was escaping from Slovenia. We couldn't argue that a month was too short. We had to draft legislation for the first week. If we are now talking about reserves that could be bigger at the beginning of this crisis, why didn't you create them? Who had the government in their hands until 2004? Why didn't you create budget surpluses and save for years? Why didn't you carry out structural reforms then? The European Union was at a high level of economic optimism in 2000. At that time, the Lisbon Strategy was adopted, and in that first version of the Lisbon Strategy, it said that the situation was so favourable that the European Union would become the most developed economy in the world in 10 years. It's been 10 years. We know what happened, but at the time, optimism in Europe was the highest, there was no conjuncture, which you speak of, or the periods of fat cows, only during our term of office. At the time, the results were actually the best. There was no crisis, and growth in Europe was even higher than on average 2007 and 2008. The conditions were extremely good. There was no need to meet any conditions for entry into the European and Monetary Union, and Slovenia also had monetary policy in its hands, which it did not have in our mandate after the entry of the euro and does not have today. In short, why are we talking about just the last few years? This is very unfair in this explanation, and with this inadequacy, the call for cooperation is not sincere. What worries me, or what in some way suggests some dangerous bribes or a repetition of some past policies of similar colored governments, such as today's, is that if we didn't cut the tax on paid wages or lower the tax rate on that tax, we would have higher income in the budget today, even writing down, lowering the tax rate on corporate income, today in the budget for more than 3% of the point of GDP. That's right. We'd have 10,000 more unemployed. So many fewer people would pay contributions and have an even bigger hole in the budget. This mourning by eliminating taxes on paid wages is actually a very dangerous signal. Apparently, the government is considering reintroducing this tax. This would further reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We've fallen 20 places, we're on the world scale 52nd. Venezuela and several other exotic countries are behind us. Here, however, the Government is obviously considering re-imposing a tax on paid salaries, which I do not think has been imposed by any other European country. We ask the question, Why is this in this explanation? I think it is right to tell the economy, above all, whether they are serious intentions, to go back and to additional taxation at some point that will certainly not receive any support, nor in this OECD inspection that is to come. And speaking of tax reforms and missed opportunities, for the first time, it is not true that no other structural reforms were implemented when the fiscal reform was introduced in 2006. However, during this period, and in particular as a result of this tax reform, there has been a significant increase in inflows to the budget and at the same time reduced expenditure, as well as a decrease in the share of public consumption in gross domestic product. However, expenditure, also nominally, has been reduced to a large extent at the expense of social transfers, where 30,000 people have been more employed and instead of receiving transfers, contributions have been paid. These simple logics are obviously in the current government somehow not out of sight and is deeply locked in some drawers and here is a conceptual discrepancy, as Minister Gaspari has previously rightly stated, where we will never come together. This economic policy you run is not successful. These discussions here were very similar to the time of the socialist economy of Milka Planinc, even then it was possible to explain everything, there was no question to which there was no answer. Everything was clear, everything was logical, there were always some graphs where someone was even worse than the then Yugoslavia, everything that was going on was the best possible at that time, even the petrol vouchers, the restrictions on the import of basic life articles and the par and odd daily. This was the best possible in a given situation. Therefore, such a display of economic policy measures without a real alternative is the way to fail. We were once part of a country that walked this path, and no one wants this history to repeat itself. If the key problem was, as Minister Gaspari had previously said, some over-indebted private sector, or over-indebted banks during years of high economic growth, and this has now been substantially improved, as we have seen in those graphs – why is it not better?Oh, my God! He said that that is a key information, a key benchmark that must be taken into account in particular. If that key benchmark and Slovenia is today significantly better than in 2008 – why do you have a billion 700 million deficits in the balance? Why was almost 10% of Slovenia's budget deficit in the first quarter, if we have improved in a key indicator? That's a bluff, too. You can always draw a graph and display it as you like, this Yugoslav school has already cost us a lot and I suggest we say good-bye. And as we speak, or as we speak so gladly, and this has been mentioned three times today, about how, at a time of high economic growth, enormous indebtedness of the economy has been allowed and that this is now a key problem and so on and so blames the Government, then it is very interesting to hear from Mr Gaspari when he sends us to the Bank of Slovenia when we propose some measures in the banking sector, namely the establishment of a bad bank. Go to Banka Slovenije, they are the ones responsible for assessing whether the banking sector is in such a situation that the establishment of a bad bank is necessary. Interesting. At the same time, the Bank of Slovenia is responsible for banking under the same constitution and under the same laws, and the Government was responsible during our term of office. Not at all. A large part of our mandate was the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Gaspari. Banka Slovenije is watching over the credit potentials of commercial banks. Not ours, not Mr. Pahor's government has any insight into this. At least ours didn't have it. It was all business secrecy. If banks have given too much credit and have actually done so, Slovenian banks, not only during our term of office, but throughout their entire history, have been borrowing out and lending here, at a time when demand for these loans has increased, these loans have obviously been borrowing more or too much. Banka Slovenije watches over the credit potential of banks, can limit it, we have the World Bank of Slovenia. I think that he was practically a founding and long-standing member of this Council of the Bank of Slovenia, also Dr Mencinger. He could have affected the bank's credit activity, and we hear him say yesterday that the government is responsible for it. Which government? The government has neither an inspection nor an instrument nor the authority to interfere. Please, don't confuse these things, even in contraventions of the same speakers. While we are already at Banka Slovenije, during these discussions on this aid package for Greece, it is also reported that Greece, which has, I don't know, 10 million inhabitants, a central bank in which employment is located, after entering the euro area and half of its functions have been transferred to Frankfurt, has substantially increased and is now said to be a few thousand. The Czech Republic, which is an equally large state and is leading a separate monetary policy because it is not yet in the euro area, is said to have two to three times fewer employees by the Czech Central Bank. It would be interesting to see how many employees are employed in Banka Slovenije. Comparisons with other countries show that the maximum number would be somewhere up to 200. According to some figures, at the time the Governor was there, Mr Gaspari, and when Slovenia entered the euro, the number of employees increased enormously and is twice the comparable average in the same large euro area countries. This is also public spending. And there the wages are extremely high and they're not under any control. That would be interesting to compare once. There's a big reserve there, too. All that is more than 200 employees in Banka Slovenije is a huge reserve and also a large savings. From these graphs presented by Mr Gaspari, it was also good to see how, unlike what banks had done, with the assistance and consent and the thirst of the Bank of Slovenia, the government settled at a time of high economic growth extremely rational, since we had reduced the share of public consumption in gross domestic product, did not increase at the same time as economic growth, but it acted countercyclically. These graphs showed that the Slovenian population also acted rationally. The indebtedness of the Slovenian population compared to the indebtedness of the average European is once again lower. So the numbers are very clear on who should explain something back. There are also many contradictions in this discussion about how the government is responsible for overheating the economy in the 2004-2008 mandate and, consequently, for the economy to be credited, while the same speakers boast that there are now 300 million more investment funds in this budget than there were in 2008. So, I don't know how the government could overheat the economy with investments that were smaller than those in the crisis balance or budget. Ask yourself the logic when you speak such nonsense. In the meantime, we have heard a sloppie about how this government has contributed to the fact that the SCT has signed a company, a commercial company with a reputation or an infamous name, as for whom, for a billion euros in new business. Do you believe that? Because the same week that this news came, there was also news that this company carried 300 of its employees to a straw company with no assets, sent them to bankruptcy, and on television we watched these poor people who gave them 50 euros in envelopes and sent them to the Employment Service. What's the logic here? How is the construction company that signs contracts for a billion new jobs going to fire 300 workers the same week? It would be logical for the new 300 or 500 to hire them. So, before any of this billion comes into the Slovenian budget, there will be a lot of Niles in the past, and I'm afraid that's never going to happen. It is just some pierar, which, of course, accounts for billions of transactions, but not for other countries, but for construction works in Slovenia, where we see the same friends from the construction cartel hugging each other happily at the opening of the new sections of Slovenian motorways, which are by Slovenian taxpayers or will be overpaid twice as a result of the public procurement system praised by Mr Gaspari. One of the most important reasons, or the second most important reason, given by the Government formally in explaining the balance of the budget, is to help Greece. The word for help is strange, for the country where wages and pensions are significantly lower than in Greece is helping the more developed. This situation is difficult to apply to our former past, when the Slovenians or we were also mass exasperated because of the so - called help to the undeveloped, but at least it helped someone who was less developed and who lived worse than us. Help is now being given to someone who lives better than we do and does not use the word help because it is not appropriate. It is true that this measure is aimed at stabilising the euro or the euro area. But don't hold that this is a good thing, that it's a good thing. Now is not the time to discuss this, but the Slovenian government should, like either German or Slovak, hear nothing about it when we long for this measure, accept very clear conditions, and not only verbally. We should openly join Germany, which has demanded that the euro area regulation be amended so that a country that does not meet the conditions loses voting rights and the adoption of this regulation should be a condition for any aid to be granted. In recent weeks, there has been a lot of information on how the public sector is financed by European taxpayers in Greece, including Slovenia, following the adoption of this law. I happened to follow the controversy in the Greek Parliament when our colleagues in the Greek Parliament reduced the number of wages from 14 to 12 and there was a lot of crying over the injustice that was happening to them. Of course, wages are significantly higher, not to mention other status. Interestingly, however, employees in the Greek Parliament who do not have 14 but have 16 salaries per year and are 4 untaxed did not agree to a reduction in salaries. Nor is the President of Parliament responsible for this regulation. Thus, the employees of the Greek Parliament will also retain 16 salaries once we have given us this assistance. And we could be referring to these cases, but it doesn't make sense. In fact, it argues that this measure, which does not deserve the name of the aid, is actually helping to stabilise the euro area. However, this stabilisation is helped in a very wrong way, or by mistamping and pre-behaving that none of these funds will ever be seen by Slovenian taxpayers. So don't say nothing is borrowed, it's just a reservation. That doesn't make any sense. These loans will first be extended and then written off. A country with such macroeconomic indicators and such a macroeconomic picture as Greece is today is, in theory, not or will not be able to repay anything in the next five years, nor in the next ten years. But if they're going to strike a collective, even a tourist season, then every three months we're going to have to take a package like this. What I miss about the confirmation of this law and the rebalancing, because this is now all connected together, is to hear from the Slovenian side some clear proposal, how to settle things, because it is not so difficult, or to at least join those who demand a solution. By the way, the adoption of this law is in no hurry. It can also be put off peacefully without any special damage, as the protocol has not even been signed. Slovakia did not sign it. The Slovak government has not signed the election in the meantime and there is a great deal of question when it will be, or if it will, because it can still wait for the first phase of the adoption of this package to be completed. There's absolutely nothing wrong with ratification. Well, we won't support this package, I think it's a missed opportunity in more ways. There is only one rational thought why in this case it would not go beyond the proposal for a referendum. And this thought is illustrated by these graphs that you could have seen before. If these trends move forward, Slovenia will ask for such assistance in two years. We need to think about that. We have heard or are now hearing for 18 months about how everything is wrong in Slovenian public finances due to the pay reform, Virant's salary reform. Firstly, this salary reform has not been adopted in our mandate. This pay reform was launched by Slovenia in 2002. However, there was an agreement to postpone its implementation until Slovenia entered the euro and public servants knowingly agreed to it and signed a social agreement and deliberately waived certain parts of the funds that would otherwise have belonged to them under the rules in force at that time. Slovenia entered the euro area during our term of office. Then there were no formal reasons why this salary reform would not have been implemented, but it was not adopted in our mandate and not made in our mandate. The negotiations were conducted in our mandate and were conducted in accordance with the macroeconomic indicators that we and the unions had at the time, and the final agreement was signed on the basis of macroeconomic data for 2007 and early 2008. Report to people when 5% of economic growth is that their wages and productivity can be approximately the same so that wages can only grow by 1%. You have to tell me why. The entry into the euro area and the fight against inflation have been such a reason and the public sector unions have behaved, I will say, very rationally and reasonably understood and accepted this reason. It was not as difficult to negotiate with them rationally as it is now at the time of this government's mandate. They are rational people who listen to arguments, defend their interests, and the government must do the same. It is now a year and a half clear that Slovenia is in crisis. In July 2010, it is clear that most European countries are already in recession and we are still in it. There are many reasons and many more important than the entry into the euro, on which the Government can settle a very reasonable argument for restrictive measures in this area. However, if it fails, let it come out with the law and have the coalition adopt legislation to remedy this situation. Don't tell me you can't do that. At this point, we hear alimony for a year and a half about how someone else is responsible for all of this. At the beginning of our mandate in 2004, we faced 70 billion budget holes for the first month, we inherited the brilliant idea of the former Minister of Finance, who reduced the year in the public sector or in education when it was expenditure for 11 months and planned only 11 salaries in the teachers' salary budget, so that the numbers came out technically. We have encountered some 10 billion hidden liabilities that have already been cashable in railways and so on. When I once said these numbers at a press conference, I was immediately attacked practically from the entire media space, and most of all from the opposition, if we speak now, there is a new government and you are responsible to solve it. We solved this in a much more difficult situation and in a relatively short time. For a year and a half, we've been listening to how these things can't somehow be solved, how things are inherited. Wages must follow macroeconomic trends, especially in the public sector, there is not always economic logic here and the government is the public sector manager. So he has to react. When it came to legal tariffs, the Government was extremely operational, did not even fear the request for a referendum, we quickly corrected the Law on legal tariffs when it came to the salaries of judges, which are one of the key reasons for the current government headache regarding public sector wage funds, since all parts of the public sector are compared without. Remember how fast it was to get the judges' salaries fixed. When it comes to deletions, which will make you take any further rebalancing next year, when claims for compensation will come or will be exhausted, everything is also done, including the decision of the Constitutional Court prohibiting the referendum. Then you're telling me here that there's nothing to be done about the public sector's pay system. It is absolutely possible to do so with the law, even within one month at the beginning of the term of office, if we wanted to. I am sure that it can also be done through social dialogue. People in the public sector unions are rational. They have shown this rationality when it comes to an agreement prior to Slovenia's entry into the euro and it is certainly possible to expect some serious and reasoned negotiations and to see that it is not just them and that other government anti-crisis measures are logical and that they will someday produce results, which can also be expected from them during this time of crisis. But I doubt that in the way that someone's dealing with it right now. There's something else you need to know. The number of staff employed during our term of office in the civil part of the state administration has decreased despite the fact that they had enormous economic growth, despite the fact that they could employ, in the light of the budgetary situation, as much as they would like to, despite the fact that Slovenia was leading the OSCE and chairing the European Union in that mandate. However, it increased with the police, due to Schengen employment. Slovenia had to meet the Schengen standards and so many and so many people had to be employed in the police, and these agreements were previously adopted. The same had to be done with the promises made by the previous government to NATO regarding the available forces for NATO, and employment increased there. This mandate does not enter the Schengen area, is not chaired by the European Union, the objectives for NATO are likely to be met or partially reduced in this crisis situation. So, why increase employment? Why new institutions? It was said that no one was worth anything, that was a statement of the year. Each new institution costs something, unless it is a reorganisation when something merges and rationalises. But it wasn't about anything like that. Yesterday, we experienced a new bill from one of the government's parties, which once again provides for a new agency. That's really interesting, I mean, it's an agency coalition. The proposals that we have put into the fabric of our professional world, which some have already partially commented on, regarding rationalisation in public administration, are taken seriously on our part. In the last year, the President of the Government made three promises, or three assessments, or proposals for reorganisation. The first time I heard him say at the top of the Slovenian economy that 50% of the people in public administration were too much and the entire Chamber of Economists in Smelt applauded him. What action was taken on the basis of this statement then, we have heard some excuses. The fact is, there are reserves here. Reserves are available throughout the public sector in the European Union. This has also been noted by the Group on the Future of Europe, as shown by the European Commission's studies and, finally, by the measures taken by other European countries. Hungary, for example, is squeezing the administration by 20%, reducing the number of Members in Parliament. Many countries have cut very deep here. There are simple comparisons of what part of the public sector in Slovenia is employed according to the European average and on the basis of this criterion it is then possible to find optimism very quickly. In our view, it is possible to reduce the number of employees from the country-controlled public sector by 10% over the next two, three years, in a soft way, without any drastic and mass forgiveness. In total, this represents very large savings. Then we heard a statement by the President of the Government that his assessment of 50% of the public sector's over-employed may be excessive, but it is certainly possible to reduce the number of ministries in the government by half. This can be done, some neighbouring countries are doing it at this very time. We suggest that the number decreases to 12. Given that some government parties have already drawn up their proposals, we will not now list these 12 sources to be done by the Government. However, we expect at least some of this to have been said seriously. It was also said that a third of the ambassadors were too many. About a month ago, at the time of the referendum campaign, we all had to comment one day on the great outpouring of journalists' statement by the Prime Minister that a third of the embassy was too much. If I am not mistaken, from then on we have received proposals from the Committee on Foreign Policy for three new embassies. The government has not proposed any suspension, only three new ones are expected to open. I won't go into speculation or there's too many, or there's too many, and there's too many. I cite these things because some words seem too simple because of the pirate's daily effect and no one demands responsibility for such words. But let's just say that at least part of these statements were serious, we suggest that we go into serious rationalisation and reorganisation of the public sector. If there's ever a chance, it's a chance. At a time of high economic growth and high budget revenues, no government will do so. There will be no willingness with the social partners. There's just no other way now. I know that this is difficult for every government to do in opposition to Parliament. Now that we promise cooperation in advance, the government has no reason not to. And this is not some kind of virtual reform that will begin to produce results in a few years' time, but a reform that will begin to produce results this year or at the latest on 1 January next year. Without that, it's not gonna work. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the offer made earlier by the President of the Government when he represented this budget balance. If I have understood those words correctly, it calls for cooperation and for certain measures to be prepared, discussed, possibly taken together. We made such an offer 18 months ago, even formalising it in the form of a written proposal. We're waiting for that answer. However, in order for someone not to have too many illusions, I ask the question whether this pianist promise, like the one at the beginning of the term, was seriously meant? Is this the government's offer, or is this just one of the statements made by the Prime Minister, who's having a hard time every day remembering what things he hasn't promised yet? One of the members of the government told me months ago that it was Minister Gaspari who, when the government was discussing our offer for a partnership for development, threatened to step out of the government if the government would accept this offer. So, I wonder if this deadline for participation is offered on behalf of the entire coalition? Because none of the others you performed on behalf of coalition parties said anything about it. You must have been about as familiar with it as we were. Neither did any of the members of the Government who acted in favour of this, but I was particularly attentive to the performance by Minister Gaspari, who was the main opposer of this cooperation at the beginning of the term of office. There wasn't a word in that direction. So, we're asking, is this a serious offer? Does Minister Gaspari agree with her? Or is he still at his announcement at the government's meeting to resign as minister if such cooperation occurs? Is there any rational core in this debate? Finally, I would like to make a further appeal on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the Government, which is that it may be that before the final decision on this rebalancing, it may yet once again discuss these figures and look at the latest data published by Slovenian statistics in recent days and wonder whether this is really an anti-crisis rebalancing. From these performances, especially Mr Gaspari, it seemed to me that there was some awareness that something must be sown if you want to reap, there is simply no government. We will not support the raising of taxes, but at least the reintroduction of taxes on paid salaries. As far as government spending is concerned, at least when it comes to oil derivatives, it leads a stupid policy. If this one were smart, there would be more tides at 40% of excise duty, not fewer. In the event that the Government reconsiders and withdraws this proposal for a rebalancing, we are prepared to participate in the preparation of a serious anti-crisis programme over the summer and also in the preparation of a serious rebalancing on this basis, which will start to treat Slovenian public finances in fact, but not only to place the burden on future generations. If this does not happen, we will vote against this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! A half-percent reduction in the deficit, as planned, will not take place. As explained by the Government, it will not cut too tightly and will try to keep the budget deficit slightly below 5%. However, structural reforms, as explained by the Government, will be. The period ahead of us within the expected two years will play a decisive role. The government can't afford to delay it, even if it would bring it some political points. The current dissatisfaction of trade unions and students must also not undermine the fundamental objectives of the exit strategy, which must be before the interests of individuals. Budget revenues will be lower and therefore a balance is needed, as the fall of tax inflows after the fall of gross domestic product and decisions with the aid of Greece will, however, be sustainable for the burden of the budget, but the government will have to cut into already planned investments. Financial support will be given to individual and incomplete investments and will remain in question for another year or two. It is promised that, for the time being, it will not interfere with the salaries and rights of employees in the public sector, which is certainly a wise and prudent decision, but negotiations with trade unions have not yet been completed. For the foretold amendment to the umbrella Law on Public Institutions will change a number of things. Slovenia's entry into the OECD will have a significant impact on the situation in both the real and public sectors. The OECD principles will certainly apply, which will not be particularly acceptable to social partners with different perspectives. The Government has taken action this time to address a number of problems and to try to eliminate administrative obstacles. The aim is to make business conditions more complex and cost-effective. Of course, this time it did not go unnoticed by the World Bank, which pointed out shortcomings in administrative procedures that take the wish and will in cooperation with potential investors and businessmen. Reducing administrative barriers is only one step in improving solutions to accelerate, as well as setting targets for the exit from the crisis. There are many factors that affect decisions in the investment of individual investors, especially in construction where the deadlines for obtaining construction permits exceed all reasonable limits. While the government is aware of these irregularities, it promises to simplify and reduce the disruptive factors in its operations and to reduce some of the costs. The measures are, as the Government argues, to be ready by the month of October and should enter into force in the coming year. It is obvious that some things have changed, we are all fighting, I must stress, the whole of Europe, to open up new jobs. Of course, these jobs must be paid. The high added value per worker is becoming less conditional, as social transfers are increasingly burdening the state budget and exhausting the resources needed to promote the economy, which ultimately creates added value. Too long has been supported by the work of those who "seek a job but pray to God not to find it". Obviously, it has begun to dominate because of the lack of work and is constantly being invented, which is also the only way to mate with the development of a developed world and competitiveness. Promoting debt demand is short-term and inexhaustible, as we already know from history and do not. It will be longer, it will be harder to get out of the crisis, so there are urgent measures where it is the least painful, and this is at present the public sector, where jobs are even the least threatened. The economy needs to be provided with optimal assistance, as it is only a way out and a guarantee of a way out of the crisis. There is a need to increase control over spending and investment in countries and to tighten corruption and customerism at all prices. However, ministers who are not able to ensure equality before the law must be replaced. The President of the Government proposes that species be withdrawn between the coalition and the opposition and that common starting points be adopted to drive the country out of the crisis. It's to say hello, but I have a bad feeling that the government has come to realize this too late. The president says that social policy must be pursued because of the social state, which does not succeed in any of Europe. Why force what is obviously bad, and some make very good use of it? Order and discipline in the field of social transfers should be ensured since independence, but this issue is now so much more pronounced because there is nowhere else to take money. I'm afraid all knowledge is of late. What is yet to be resolved, we support the proposal of the President of the Government to rescue the country from the problems with common powers. However, I do not support the balance, at least not in that part, when it reduces investment and accelerates the economy at the expense of Greece's aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u36	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! I will support the proposed 2010 budget balance. I am aware that in a given situation it is necessary to act immediately, including through an amendment, i.e. by means of a budget rebalancing. Today there was much debate in one direction, i.e. in the direction of confirmation, but also in a different form. However, the period of the economic and financial crisis did not go by the Republic of Slovenia, and consequently lower economic growth led to lower tax revenues of EUR 525 million and the deficit of Slovenia will still be below the deficit of the euro area average. The European Commission also assessed the 2010 balance positive. Some of the debates going towards a negative call, in particular the high level of criticism, may not be justified at all times. The proposed rebalas provides adequate funding for budgetary expenditure in the current crisis period. The amount of some expenditure in the public sector is indeed worrying. However, the reasons that affect these movements must be taken into account. For example, additional employment was needed to meet the standards, for example in kindergartens, in the military, justice and police, where staff is lacking, as well as the impact of wage reform in the public sector in 2008. There has been quite a debate about this today, and I also think that there are clear enough and precise explanations on this subject. The fact is that it is envisaged to reduce investments at this time, despite all the dissatisfaction of local communities, still the least painful measure, as they amount to investments of 3.7 gross social product of Slovenia, and in recent years, as was already stated at the beginning of the discussion by the Prime Minister, this percentage was lower, regardless of everything. The impact of increased production is very significant on growth in economic activity and the increase in some budgetary expenditure follows this objective. The findings of the opposition's colleagues on a substantial increase in budgetary expenditure during the crisis compared to the budget expenditure from the period of the situation The fact is that it is also a matter of fulfilling obligations that have been made in the past. [[...]] So also in the time of the previous government. Of course, I believe that no one at that time thought that there would be a period when there would be no longer a period of fatter cows, but of substantially drier cows, and that not all the possibilities of such major changes in the macroeconomic scenario, particularly in relation to the projected wage growth in the public sector and the period of fatter cows, of saved resources for times of crisis, would be taken into account. In particular, in the area of public sector wages, any changes due to the necessary social dialogue are, unfortunately, more difficult or difficult to achieve. The Minister of Finance has already stressed, among other things, that investment and investment transfers, despite the proposed reduction, are still increasing compared to 2008. The higher shares, the differences between expenditure at the time of the conjuncture and the current period in which the opposition points out, are based on transfers to individuals amounting to EUR 340 million and an additional transfer of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance amounting to EUR 240 million. The Minister of Transport, who is also now present and who was also present at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, stressed, with regard to the Ministry's budget, that the funds are actually falling by EUR 135 million. The budget will be enough to survive. It is therefore necessary to adapt to the situation and investment activities are still higher than in previous years and investment dynamics are changing. In any case, alternative sources of funding will need to be found due to the decisions taken by the previous governments. However, I expect that there will probably be a number of controversial opinions on these issues today and Tuesday, i.e. on alternative sources of funding. Earlier he was a colleague of Bogovic, perhaps a bit of a concern, but also a little controversial about the third development axis for the southern part of the White landscape, including in Koroška and also about the various interpretations of the way in which these important projects were financed and implemented. I believe and trust, and I am confident that funds will be found for this area as well, and that these projects will also be implemented. As we are now at the point of the general part of the budget rebalancing, not with concrete amendments, let me also say the following. Today, it was also stressed at the outset, also by the President of the Government, that tasks are not easy, but we can carry them out. I believe that we can bring them out together, and also, as I said at the beginning of my debate, I have written down that I would not possibly forget anything, I will support the budget's rebalancing myself. But I believe he can never be so good that he wouldn't be good for everything. However, in the given situation, we must step together and confirm this budget balance and drive at a time when we will reach the period of economic growth again, even if it will not be tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u38	Thank you. Since there's still interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. This is a general discussion. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u39	Your Honor! The 2010 budget rebalancing is actually a correction of the 2010 budget adopted. I would like to remind you of one or more promises made on the adoption of the 2010 budget itself. At that time, it was said that this was towards the objectives or the results of the budget. The 2010 and 2011 budget memorandum shows that the first objective, the first priority, followed by the 2010 budget, is to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness. Let us see how the 2010 budget has met these objectives of promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness. With the aim of entrepreneurship, economic development is more or less meaningful, achieving its objectives and so on. See, the 2010 budget was based on the assumption of 0.9% of economic growth. It is now known that the drop will be at least 0.6%, which means that this target is missed or below 1.5%. It is said that you are more or less aware of this first objective. The second objective is competitiveness, increasing competitiveness. I will not repeat for the first time the drastic decline in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in 2010, when we fell from 32nd city to 52nd place. We have previously heard Minister Gaspari argue with the credibility of this calculation or this determination of the fall that is more or less based on the survey, this is on some response of the economy to the situation in Slovenia, rather than on some actual figures. This is not so, for part of the calculation of this decline is based entirely on the macroeconomic environment in which the country is located, on budget deficits, on debt and on the like. These figures are unfavourable and are also partly based on economic assessments. If Minister Gaspari underestimates the position of the economy in Slovenia, then God help us. Only he and the Government know how he is in the economy, and the economists are some who obviously do not know or see the matter worse than Minister Gaspari would like to see it. So, if we look at how the 2010 budget government met the first priority of promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness, we see that it has more or less covered the entire line. The balance is needed according to my assessment, it is needed because of wrong assessments and also because of wrong government policies in the past and even in the first half of this year. What grades were wrong? It certainly assesses economic growth and, consequently, tax revenues. There has been a lot of confusion in this, as, say, budget preparers for 2010, there has been a fall in the corporate income tax or profit tax of about 280 million. It is also interesting that you predicted income from other taxes, the first of which is a CO2 tax of EUR 120 million, which is not at all, and thank God it is not. It is said that this was a miscalculation some more than half a year ago on these taxes. It is more worrying that, in my opinion, the failure to assess economic growth has been the underestimation of the need for effective measures to promote economic activity. Very rarely, I could count on the fingers of one hand those measures that have been taken and which have promoted economic activity in Slovenia. As a result, because there was no economic activity, you fell by around 1.5% of gross domestic product, which is because of this miscalculation, of course there is no tax revenue either. The key reason, the synthesis of all these reasons, is that, of course, you had to prepare a balance due to lower revenues, which is due to lower economic activity and, of course, it would be logical for the budget and the balance to be based on measures to address this problem. This is said to be how to eliminate and encourage greater economic activity? However, to great disappointment, the rebalancing of this original cause, the sin of creating this difference between income and expenditure is not achieved, the government does not do so. We are not dealing with a rebalancing of measures to promote economic activity. On the contrary, the government is working towards even lower economic activity, even more pressure with tax burdens on the economy and even less investment that could drive the economy. In fact, we must not overlook the fact that in this package there is also a bill on excise duties, which greatly increases excise duties on electricity, which will make the economy feel. The VIPAP case has already been mentioned, a paper factory that will feel this increase in electricity consumption directly on its skin by about EUR 2 million. EUR 2 million to one economic operator, who is finally also struggling to sell its article, i.e. paper on the European market, is not small. This threatens 450 jobs and the question is whether and to what extent this increase in excise duties will be possible to compensate with, of course, the other options one such company has. So either by raising the prices of the final product or by further rationalising the cost of production. It's one of the companies. There are still few such companies that will be affected by the rise in electricity prices. With the rise in electricity prices, as a result of this drastic increase in excise duties, you have, of course, also affected some other investments in the electricity sector. Directly because of the high price of electricity, there is likely to be pressure on the unoptimal network policy. You know that electricity companies are over-indebted to have a lot of development needs, they have to expand the network, maintain the network, so that the existing networks are not adequately covered by this, so there is, of course, pressure on the rise of grids, which also consists of the price of electricity. Since the excise duty has risen, the government will probably not decide to set the nets on fire. The result will be that the situation and condition of the Slovenian distribution network will be reversed. It is, however, the wrong policy of the Government to raise excise duties, because it is a very short-term policy and I am very dismayed when I have observed for about 10 years now, since I have been a politician and in this Parliament, this shortsightedness of all the financial authorities in this country. Viewed exclusively on some current annual, fiscal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u40	I'd like you to turn off your phones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u41	It is therefore only one short-term, one-year fiscal objective, which is too small or harmful when talking about a medium-term or even long-term effect of such a tax introduction or raising. Here it is easy to raise excise duties on oil derivatives first, so we now have the most expensive petroleum derivatives, except for me that Italy is even higher, and otherwise Austria, Croatia, Hungary have lower prices. Now the price of electricity and scissors for the economy and for the household are being negatively closed. What's going on? It happens that the cost of living and operating costs, the cost of living of households and the cost of operating companies are increasing as a result of the increase in these excise duties, and, of course, economic activity is decreasing, meaning that the difference between this space and which it is possible to live from is decreasing. And soon it will rest. There has already been a break in a number of companies, and bankruptcys are also taking place, and many companies will continue to rest. Of course, as a result, there will be fewer revenues and more transfers from the state treasury. This means that the aim of balancing public finances followed by this balance sheet will be far from achieving it. And there's one more thing. On several occasions, I have heard from the proponents of this rebalancing that the aim is to stabilise public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, who else believes that 5% of the deficit, when we talk about 5% of gross domestic product, is the stabilisation of public finances. So if we spend 10 billion, and we create 8.4 billion, we have 1.6 billion or 1.7 billion deficits. And that's the stabilisation of public finances? Yeah, for God's sake, I don't believe that. This is practically 22% of the deficit when we talk about the share of expenditure on revenue and someone is talking to me here about the stability and stabilisation of public finances. The Stability and Growth Pact also provides for a maximum of 3% of deficits in gross domestic product. We've got 5% here now, and we're talking about floscules that no one believes. So, what's the key to this rebalancing? The key elements on which it builds and reduces the deficit to 5%, since it is likely to be 7%, are the fact that investment is largely reduced, and that some little is also reduced by current expenditure, which is positive in this proposal, that excise duties are increased drastically and that unfortunate aid to Greece, which is in the context of lending our credit potential. Wrong, Your Honor. This does not solve and stabilise public finances, because investments, you yourself say, are simply a diversion, which means that they will have some financial impact only in 2010 and will probably double the problem in 2011. In fact, it is simply a distraction or a blinding of the problem. According to our assessment, the most appropriate cuts should be made in the case of current expenditure. Look at some statistics. I had previously listened to the interesting Minister Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, who spoke of the fall of wages and the mass of wages. See the 2008 figures, the estimated 2009 implementations, which we can understand from the 2010 and 2011 budget documents and from the 2010 rebalancing. Let's see! Item 400, wages, realisation in 2008 980 million, realisation in 2009 25 million and rebalance 2010 49 million. Is that a fall? It's not for me. It's growing. It's the same thing when we talk about contributions. 167 million realisation in 2008, implementation in 2009 185 million and rebalancing 2010 187 million. The same is true of the cost of goods. Current expenditure, i.e. some sum of these sumarum, would say soft or fixed budget expenditure: 2008 is the realisation of 2 billion 434 million, 2009 is the realisation of 2 billion 423 million and the rebalancing of 2010 2 billion 600 million. So where are the current expenditure controls and the curves down that the minister had previously shown? I don't see it. Let us also look at items, transfers to businesses, individuals and households. Transfers from 4 billion 600 million in 2008 to 5 billion 500 million in 2009 and the 2010 rebalancing to 5 billion 600 million. This is said to limit everything that is now in the anti-crisis balance to increase. Your Honor, of course this is not the right way. It's not an anti-crisis balance. This rebalancing is just a rebalancing of the eye against real problems. I am tired of this debate that the government of Janez Janša during the period of economic growth, when we recorded high economic growth, promised and legislated some other new rights for the people. It is normal that economic growth may also give rise to additional rights because people must have something from this economic growth. You social democrats have repeated this as a record with no end and no end. However, in times of economic crisis, the belt should be tightened and respected, if they were responsible, of course, a number of laws could also be corrected in the light of new macroeconomic indicators, economic indicators in Slovenia, Europe and the world. And you didn't, because all these running expenses and transfers just kept growing and growing and you're going to grow until you make a big change. You are now on the government for 18 months, and I have not actually seen any serious proposal to deal with this dangerous phenomenon when our budget revenues have broken down, and our expenditure is rising. You have the expenditure of this year's budget with a rebalancing far higher than in 2008, when the end was exceptional, 10 years of long-term conjuncture. So what do we suggest? It has already been mentioned several times and, of course, contrary to you, we propose to limit public spending on current expenditure, including transfers, and we propose to accelerate economic activity through the acceleration of some of the developmental important investments. Perhaps I also understand why you are not seriously dealing with the problem, since we had a huge, almost 9% or over 9% deficit in the first quarter of this year alone. And since you're probably going to close the investment through the balance sheet, I'll tell you an example that I've already told you on the board. This is an example of Brezica High School. Brežica Gymnasium belongs exclusively to investment through the budget. It was estimated at around €7.6 million and the tender was already in February, March. All the selection procedures have been completed and a decision on the choice of the contractor for this project could be issued in April, but it was not. Why not? Since it came from the Ministry of Education, of course, the high school itself will not proceed with the process of adopting the rebalancing. What does the balance have to do with this, I don't know, because the investment was already in the 2010 budget. And, of course, since no contractor has been selected, there will be a rebalancing, if the rebalancing is accepted, it will be next week, then they will probably continue with the selection procedures of the contractor, the selection decisions will be issued, revisions, because there has not been any serious investment without revisions, and of course we can wipe ourselves under the nose, so that the contracts will be signed before autumn. But if the contracts are signed before autumn, there's no hero to do and get paid this year. So what is planned through the rebalancing will not be done, again additionally, pro-cyclically, not against cyclically, pro-cyclically creating deficits and downturns or souls economic activity. Definitely. That's one case. Such cases are likely to be of no consequence if we go into the intestines of an individual investment. So, when I heard earlier about how to limit public sector spending so that nothing can be done within one month, listen, respected government, if you can't act within one month in a time of crisis, then you're not mature to lead the country. In times of crisis, action must be taken overnight. One month is a long time, and when I heard earlier Minister Irmo Pavlinič Krebs that she could not do anything about the public sector's salaries when it was time, that is actually an excuse for underestimating the problem during that period. At that time, you probably thought it was some kind of crisis that would pass, and we don't have to do much about it. Of course, this did not happen, you are obviously just a little stressed out by the crisis and then we see some proposals after the cooperation that have actually been coming from our side long ago. So, Your Honor, if you really want cooperation, then take the problem of public finances seriously. In the case of public finances, expenditure must be limited where it will occur permanently, not to postpone only certain investments and to act contrary to the sense of conduct in the economic crisis. The basic sin of these measures is not to promote economic activity but to stifle it, and then to wonder about the loss of revenue in the budget and the decline in economic growth and the lower competitiveness of the economy. I cannot support such an approach alone and, of course, I will also vote against this balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u43	Good-bye to all of you. Today, surely those who still remember the most beautiful cartoons that have ever cheered up our youth want television to turn back on the cartoon of Kalimerot. For you will remember that Kalimero is that cute chicken that has something to do with his head, that he sees nothing, and then he constantly rushes in, and everyone else is guilty of his accident, only he is not guilty, but he does not remove it from his head. Because if we were to turn this cartoon around again, I think that the respected gentlemen of the ruling coalition and the government might even recognize someone in this cartoon. For some of the numbers you mentioned would have been quite interesting. Let's say one of the slaggers who keeps repeating himself here is the issue of ratings adopted by the previous government and the ruling coalition in the last term at the end of their term of office, from salary reform, to warm meals for our children. But you know what's interesting? Again and again, those who yell this loud voice forget the total amount of what they are saying. If you look at the realisation of the wage reform and everything else, you will see that 804 million euros, as much as you spent in the first rebalancing in 2009, given what was adopted in the 2009 budget by the previous coalition, is several times the amount that the previous coalition has devoted to raising the quality of life of people, at a time when you, by yourself, have shouted out loud about the crisis here, that it is severe and so on. This is what we say when we talk about who has deepened this crisis and why we are where we are, we need to take a real look at these numbers. These numbers show that the responsibility is yours and that, of course, the credits, such and different, for the situation in which we, also exclusively and only yours, and that with this first rebalancing in 2009, with which you, of course, repaid the eligible debts, bought electoral support for the pre-term period and everything else, you have run into a terrible crash and now you're just hurling, tanning like Kalimera. If the government were to look for a good symbol for this term of office, Kalimera would be a great solution. Now that we are talking about the expenditure and revenue side of the budget, it is important to note that there is a strong misunderstanding of these concepts, which goes on from the budget as a whole, including all the parts that we get later, but the budget as a whole is talking about a policy. This is a complete misunderstanding of what development is, in fact, a developmental orientation, which may trigger some new development. Just as an example. As a development investment, we could certainly also consider investing in a key road network point to unlock the additional development potential of one region. In some sections, such as the Hotemage Road, Britoff, these costs are negligible. Or for a lap in Shenchure. It's an extremely small sum. A few hundred thousand euros or, together with that road worth 2.5 million euros, which would return very quickly, ladies and gentlemen, through multiple taxes collected, because this could trigger a new development cycle in that area and help it to achieve a new development potential. But obviously, no one knows about this at your place, or they don't want to count it. Similarly, now that it is being saved, you will not believe, even in firefighting and firefighters. The preparation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance under the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue is decreasing. The SDS Group clearly proposes, as in the above-mentioned cases, an appropriate solution. The amendment with which funds are recovered, and the government and the coalition categorically reject this. It's a small resource! Do you know what that means in practice? In times when we are facing more and more attacks, only slightly weaker or even slightly slower action in the event of a catch or in the event of a fire will cause incomparably greater damage than this figure that we are talking about today and that you are showing as saving. It's just that saving's all he wants. How can it be that when new and new demands are put before Slovenian firefighting when people work hard, they save themselves, but in their function, you are now putting in place a reduction in the resources that are intended for part of their activities and for the services to which they are vitally tied. This kind of saving is just on the short tracks. It's just like I described earlier in that cartoon about Kalimer. Only one fire, ladies and gentlemen, can cause ten, twenty times more damage than what you're showing here as savings. Well, that's savings. Such an investment is, of course, insurance, in a way, a development investment, if we understand it in that way. But when it comes to collecting money for the income side, there might really be a need to allow the government some more employment to at least hire someone who can do primary mathematics in practice. For a year ago, before the previous holidays, when you drastically raised fuel excises just before the beginning of the holidays, I asked a question from the Member States, in which I pointed out that it was only on short lines. Because what happened then? It happened that people who were foreigners went through Slovenia, refueled in one of the neighbouring countries, and then transported all of Slovenia and tanked in another of the neighbouring countries, because there was significantly cheaper petrol or diesel fuel in both countries. This story repeats itself this year. Last year, when I asked this question, it was accompanied by almost a mockery, some of which was even quite a direct mockery, if you can't count it, we raised excise duties, and now we're going to get more involved with it. But now you have yourself written: "The estimated excise revenue is lower by €41 million, mainly due to the less sold diesel fuel in 2009". Good morning, elementary school math. As a result, new estimates of the amount of diesel fuel for 2010 are 9% lower than originally planned, which were, by the way, already lower in themselves. It is also important to know how to capture. And here is one problem of the policy of the current coalition, which constantly burdens only citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but does not know how to cover the entire transit, it does not know the opportunity offered in itself by the geostrategic location of Slovenia, which is one of its strategic advantages, if we know how to use it properly. Let me say this only by example, for which you are now taking a stand in every direction, because, of course, there are financial invoices and financial interests at the rear, so that we can get rid of the current way of collecting tolls on motorways as soon as possible. Although, at the time of the introduction of the vineyards, it proved that we have collected more money than in the previous system. However, this method of collection, particularly at the rate adopted by the previous government, was incomparably more favourable for all Slovenes and Slovenians than the previous system, which should now be reintroduced only by collecting via satellite. Of course, someone would earn a lot of money in that, but it certainly isn't in the background of your efforts. Now let's look at this from the point of view of one capable citizen, who is an honest taxpayer, pays a lot under taxes and, of course, because he is a very active person, let's say he is an entrepreneur, he also does a lot of miles and uses a lot of gas, and let's compare that with the role of a foreigner. The one who is an active Slovenian citizen and is a good taxpayer has made a huge contribution, paid over taxes for Slovenian motorways and now you will burden him tremendously with higher fuel costs and even higher tolls. It will be burdened twice and the danger on the roads will increase dramatically. Security will deteriorate when people start using other roads again, and this effect is forgotten. This will also have a national economic impact due to the damage and health of people and their lives. That's what you forget, too. It's obviously not worth it to you. But it's even an economic category. That's what you forget. Now look at this from a stranger's point of view. He did not contribute one tolar to the Slovenian motorway, not the euro, because he was never a Slovenian taxpayer. At least now he had to pay for that sticker, the wine, and he contributed something. I say that's the only thing fair. Now he will pay only one minimum toll when he drives through Slovenia, with fuel that he will refuel in Austria, and then again in Croatia, because you do not master the foundations of excise policy, so that at least in this part he knows, at least before he lets things be comparable to abroad, or release a cent. Who did you put in charge of? Only our citizens and our citizens. That's why this policy of yours is so indeveloped, so counter-developmental in fact, once it's shown from the point of view of a common taxpayer. However, to make matters worse, I listened carefully to what you announced in the introductory debates, both by the Government and perhaps even by default, some of the parties were exposed when you presented the views of the parties. It was mentioned that particular attention will be paid to the construction and real estate crisis. Please listen carefully to me, I can also spell this out, but saving speculators with real estate is not in the Slovenian public interest, it is not in the national interest and it is a developmental destructive concept that you obviously intend to implement. I know that there is also a background for pressure from banks that are also interested in the high price of loans, but also to a certain extent where they are owners of a high oversupply price of real estate. But with this balloon, you're just pushing in extra at the expense of taxpayers who are already living worse because certain goods are not available to them. Although you will now spend additional resources for this purpose, as you have already channelled them, because one part of that money for entrepreneurship has ended up, after all available information, in the hands of companies that have speculated with real estate or financially, then you will only further burden the Slovenian taxpayers and make the quality of life worse for Slovenian citizens and citizens. This will in practice be the result of such a policy, which you are predicting as a solution for Slovenia. And that's the solution! For certain layers, the richest layers, this will certainly be a solution because it will mean preserving their capital, and for a large majority it will be a real small human disaster. Of course, it is no wonder, then, that Mrs Zares, who has also announced this, used the expression that she believes in the rebalancing, because then she takes us into the field of theology. If you believe in something, then it's incomprehensible, but you believe in it, and it's obvious that you believe it's a developmental concept and then you have to believe it. In my opinion, only a few will believe that in common sense. In particular, and I will end with this, because at the same time we are witnessing developments when new and new agencies are being introduced, which is just a preparation for that, even when the power is lost, that power will be preserved through these institutions, which will then be maintained at all costs, it will, of course, be an excellent human resources resort for any price, as taxpayers are still paying for it. On the other hand, it is practically intended to centralise all things, including the area of public procurement, which has been so debated in recent days, and this is justified. Will this really help to increase transparency? Yes, of course. This agency could be peacefully called an agency for irresponsibility, because it will only be for the excuse of all those in the individual ministries, specifically individual ministers, if you want to have something to wave with 'yes, look, it was here, so it's not my fault, because it's not my decision and it's the same, it's independent, it can't interfere, it can't be looked at there', and we'll listen for long and time. That's really going to happen. If we really want to have more transparency, especially more control, then I'll tell you what the recipe would be. Then we would propose an institution, the establishment of an institution with relatively large powers, similar to that of the Court of Auditors, which would be bound to the mandate of a government and would have a principle that all people in key places would be appointed by the opposition on a case-by-case basis. Then there would be surveillance and I say that there would also be a very rapid order in the area of public finances. This would be the only way that could actually work. Because in the independence of a politically appointed agency to believe anyone who wants to, I will never believe it. But I believe in mutual control, because mutual control is the path through which democracy can exist and the old principle says "clean accounts, good friends". As long as there are no clean accounts, I can only say that such a budget, which does not mean a real solution, which certainly does not allow a new start and which you only advocate with the thesis of how everything was wrong before, so by that logic, if someone once ran across the road, we can now run over an entire bus of children, such a budget simply cannot be voted out because it is bad for Slovenia, like this coalition and this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Well, my predecessor kind of started the debate and actually gave me a good lever to go on. He showed that while there are many colleagues on the side that I value and with whom we can work very well, he may take little account of the issue of running the country as a cartoon and then interpret the world around him through cartoons. If I can accept with some irony that we can honestly accept, after all, add a little bit to this debate, which is sometimes so much gray, my predecessor mentioned a little black duck, if I'm not mistaken, Kalimera, chicken, I can say that I can't say that. But I can say that the previous government, on the one hand, thought that it lived in the world of Balthazar, where it could press a button with some short-term measures and a large machine would bring a drop of medicine to solve everything, but it actually lived in the world of "A is this". I don't know if you know that Czech cartoon, where those two guys who always want to save something, and every time they do something, they do even more damage, and then with a lot of imagination, they fix that damage, but in fact they've done an even bigger problem. But in the end, they solved the basic problem and were looking forward to it, but it was true that while they had a fire in their apartment, the flood and their house fell apart, but they solved their little problem. So if we want to identify through cartoons, we can say that in the last four years, maybe someone thought they were living with Balthazar, but basically they lived with A. Why? Because he tried to be relatively attractive and also with the desire to be effective, he tried to solve a structural problem that he did not actually address. Then we had Mercator's sale done in a way that, in fact, Mercator brought back to us on our national shoulders a few years later due to the crisis, he took up mega-man investment in the defence field, completely unnecessary, which, due to now, including Slovenia, very unloved contracts, which we still cannot resolve in the right way. It has grown a large bubble of Istrabenza, which was completely destroyed just yesterday, by moving our largest food industry to Croatia, thank God not physically, but as far as administration and ownership are concerned. In Luka Koper, too, he tried to make certain investments that would enable me to be reintroduced, some prove to be true regardless of the original criticisms. For example, I am talking about post panamax cranes, but many others, especially with administrative buildings, with purchases of land for some phantom inland terminals, are actually proving to be like where we now have another of our colleagues who is sitting in prison for this reason. Or an example that my predecessor probably knows well, such as Iskraemecco, where we actually had not only sparks, but a lot more innovative economies, but because of the unwise policy behind the withdrawal of the country from the economy, but in style A, it was, it meant an unwise sale and these sparks were extinguished. I propose that, in this debate, we are a little more balanced to acknowledge that a number of the measures introduced by the previous Government have not introduced a global financial crisis, which, of course, is not also responsible, but that we also recognize that many of these measures today would lead to the turmoil of this government, most likely leading to a different government if the result in the elections were different. Simply because the numbers are today significantly different and because the macroeconomic area or macroeconomic environment today is significantly different. We have heard three main criticisms that the budget is declining at the expense of investments, that more vulnerable groups are burdened with this rebalancing and that it is nevertheless possible to increase expenditure. And I'll start with the last one, because I've already introduced it somehow. Expenditure shall be increased to a large extent due to obligations which are completely outside the domain of the decision and the manoeuvre space of this Government and of this national assembly at this time. From the obligation to the PPIZ, where we can all agree that it is not in the government domain to decide whether this outflow to the PPIZ, this transfer to the PPIZ is not real or not, is not in the domain. Unless we want the Government to violate the laws adopted by this national assembly and ultimately the entire state system. These expenses are also at the expense of free kindergarten, at the expense of free nutrition, these things are being corrected and again we do not see that these decisions have been taken, we honestly do not see. But the fact is that those decisions that were made at that time have significantly different effects today than we thought they would have. That is why these things need to be corrected, and, of course, we suffer the consequences of this. We also saw some graphs showing how government spending is increasing. Much is highlighted in the last part of this graph when the curve goes up in 2008 and 2009. But this is more proof that these expenditure is actually due to these policies, because policies happen, never again, but they happen more than half a year and a half. Policies adopted in 2007 and 2008 have already begun to be implemented through the cash flow at the end of 2008 and 2009. But no one looks at the first part of this graph for 2004 and 2005, when these expenditure was also very low. Thus, the former government also inherited very low government expenditure and essentially contributed to a substantial increase. Here we go, to another review – investments. With regard to investments, the Prime Minister has already made a very plastic and black explanation of what this is all about. Investments are shrinking, but regardless of how they are shrinking, they are still higher, even in a relative sense, than investments that were carried out at the same time in 2008 on the basis of the overall expenditure of the state budget. These are numbers that are black and white, and we can't deny that either. So yes, investments are declining because obviously the government and this coalition were too ambitious to implement what projects will be able to achieve according to macroeconomic givenness. But despite this decline, these investments are still significantly higher than what was done when the money was substantial. The third criticism is that this rebalancing takes place at the expense of burdensome vulnerable groups. Let us see that this is not only through the prism of policies to limit unemployment, because it is a more vulnerable group, it is that group that is unemployed. This government has, we must all admit, been able here to very effectively curb the rise in unemployment. Did she make it? She did it. The numbers prove it. The projections that were made two years ago did not come true today, and the situation is in fact much better than what they feared us with. This balance, which is due to the budgets resulting from this policy, is increasingly defended by a more vulnerable group. Finally, there will be a loan, which will be the topic of tomorrow, but it connects in the balance, because after all it is some kind of expenditure to the Hellenic Republic, Greece, according to local circumstances. We can decide not to do that. But it's like we decided when we stepped into the euro area to get on a bike, and then we're not ready to move this bike forward, but we expect that we'll still be able to stand in balance on this bike. No, we're going down. But when we fall, we'll be angry about why we fell. So we had two options, whether we don't enter the euro area, so we don't have to get on the bike and we don't have to move this system forward today, or if we've already entered, because we were aware that when we're on the bike, we can be significantly faster than we are when we're walking. Now we also have to run this bike so that this bike can go on, that we can stay on it, and that we can get to the goal we set ourselves faster. Well, this is not about the others. This is about us. This expenditure is intended to limit the infection of over-indebted public finances by one of the members who shares the same currency with us from infecting other members of this monetary area. Therefore, I hope that tomorrow, when we discuss this loan, we will not hear again the question of what the Greek salary is, how much the Greek gross domestic product is and so on, because it has nothing to do with it, because this loan and this expenditure do not work because of the Greeks, but they do it because of us. The Greeks are already paying, and they're going to pay a substantial price for what they've done. This loan is carried out so that we do not yet have to pay through public financial systems infection what the Greeks and other irresponsible, especially the southern European countries and the north, in particular Ireland.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, about cartoons? Because it's just about cartoons they've been talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u47	If the honourable colleague is on the subject and recognized in the conduct of the previous term A is this, he would remind him of the subject to which he himself returned at the end. This is to allocate now 300 million, or more than 300 million, of euro assistance to Greece or its public servants, without Greece having previously properly regulated financial and all other mechanisms on its own. In Gorenjska we say it's about as if you handed a bottle of schnapps to a chronic drunk and said, well, you'll pay me back in time. You want to see this. For now, if we go back to cartoons, in practice you ask Slovenian public servants to give up more than 100 million euros, for which they were once agreed and signed off on their salary, for many years, so that you can spend more than 300 million euros for a Greek public servant, for his 14, 15 or even 16th salary, while the Greek public servant is already half better paid than the Slovenian public servant. And this isn't just a drawing anymore. But that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. And I'd go to some cartoon. There used to be another drawing of Pera Detlic. He was so resilient that he was so cute that all the children were interested in him, and he was very resourceful. If I take this a little bit further, where my colleague Yuri ended up, then this Greece is also quite a nuisance and resourceful. We save and we spend, but we also spend questionable. I really wonder why the government has agreed so quickly and so generously to help Greece without making this intention conditional. There is a principle of solidarity and it is right that this principle is respected and other agreements must be respected. However, in this regard and precisely in the case of Greece, given the historical experience and the current willingness of Greece itself or the Greek Government, I would like to say that Slovenia could condition the implementation of this loan law that you will adopt at this meeting. Slovenia could condition the enforcement of this law by requiring Greece to adapt its consumption in public administration at least to our system, although it should be more stringent. We are against this law, and I repeat, not to violate the principles and obligations that we have accepted at the time of entry into the European Union and later into the European and Monetary Union, but to demand that everyone act responsibly. Some budget items are reduced by 100 % as a result of savings, but also by such small items and are now 0 on these items. For example, under budget item 251205006 — Purchase and management of the Geos area. Some Members who have done much to regulate the management of this area are still among us and I thank them. This rebalancing will stop all activities for this year, but what has already been done will not be settled. This is, to put it mildly, irresponsible behavior, and it will have to be arranged in a year's time. Today, one of the discussions also stated that the burden of saving needs to be distributed evenly. Yeah, I wonder. Or, like then, right after self - servitude, when various self - called experts in all positions have accumulated high incomes, workers, farmers, and the pensioners have been pushed to low, guaranteed personal incomes and pensions? The main burden was borne by a small man and we did not take the road as I expected at the time. Hyenas, the old elite who could control and exploit the system at the time, so that I wouldn't be unfair to the system at the time, have successfully and rapidly transformed, privatized or, I could say, "scramble" the healthy parts of the economy. The kind of economy that was created by this little man who is supposed to save everything again today. Let us see who today is most frail in resisting planned savings. Is a small man, a farmer, a worker, or a pensioner resisting? No, but those who could easily live with 10% of their income. A farmer, a worker, a pensioner simply has no time to deal with protests in everyday situations and struggles for everyday survival. I have already proposed in this mandate, in this, for me, the distinguished National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, that wages in public administration and other public services should automatically be reduced by as much as the lower inflows to the state budget. I understood Virant's option not as an increase, but rather as an elimination of imbalances, which does not mean that these salaries could not be adapted, for example, in the way I have discussed. A farmer, a worker, and a pensioner cannot accept that savings are distributed in the same way. Experience is painful, but you know where nothing is taken, the army doesn't take it. Go save up where you can. For the source take and use the material Presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Success will be assured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State! The debate on the 2010 budget rebalancing proposal is more serious than the debate or discussion on cartoons. This is a serious matter, the fate of many people who are bound in one way or another to the resources of this budget. The economic situation and forecasts of lower economic growth, and above all the reality of budget revenues, dictate a change. A change that will be fast enough to be effective enough to allow this country and this government to carry out fiscal year-to-year, some investments and also all obligations under such or other contracts. If I focus on the current economic situation, it is about such that Slovenia is currently in a recession. With some rise, some start at the beginning of the year now comes the recession again. And what exactly is the result of this recession? The result is also largely evidenced by the construction crisis, which was an engine, a generator of economic growth and development in the past year. It is simply this great upturn and even apparent growth that cannot be replaced in such a short time, especially because it is late in 2008 and early in 2009, and days ago we have actually completed investments in the Slovenian road cross and at the same time we have not planned or made other investments that we could start, whether we now have money or not, we simply could not. If we focus and focus on investments in railway infrastructure, it is simply not possible to make them because we do not have enough well-managed and spatial acts, not projects, not the implementation of all these things. This, of course, is due to years of planning, this cannot be done overnight without being done in 18 months. This is a planning for which at least part of the responsibility should be assumed by another government. The point is that, of course, I could have planned some of the activities that could be carried out in this construction sector before the road cross. We have seen that construction activities will be completed at any time and will be completed in this area. The other is extremely large investment investments, private investment investments. According to the data we have from Umar, between 2006 and 2008, loans for investments in construction, private investments were about 4.4 billion. That's quite a lot. There is no way to substitute that sum through the budget, or through another thing. Of course, today the consequences of this are also problems in banks. There are also poorly secured loans. We know the problem with the constructionists, we also know the parable that Comrade Grims said to the speculator and all that after the Grimes, I'd say who put it on the construction site, but it's not just that. In particular, it is the whole construction sector, which has nothing to do with it, which is in the second and third rows, which is actually possible to pay now, whether in some way the victims of this excessive investment activity in housing, construction, in general, are simply because the apartments and business premises today are empty, the capital is invested, they are done, but there is no buyer, so there is no cash flow that could then repay these loans. The second part is social. Looking back on the 2010 budget, many have announced that there will now be 100,000 unemployed. With the measures that this government has taken, and these measures also mean certain financial obligations, we have only managed to keep under the magic limit of 100,000. We have, according to the data that they are, 98 thousand 400 unemployed. That's a big one. This is not good, we have had significantly fewer, but this unemployment has not increased and has not been abandoned and left to the market alone, but the Government has only managed to keep a large proportion of people in companies that already have production. It's about the car industry, it's about some other stuff. When I speak with the directors, they are quite pleased that they have kept the workers for a certain period of time, either on short notice or on hold. Today, when production, when the cycle turns, of course, these workers who have extremely much knowledge, who have very much experience, can quickly enter into production and, of course, also contribute to the new economic start-up. From this point of view, I must say that the measures, which have to a large extent also put a financial burden on the budget in the past year, have been quite successful. Probably wouldn't be able to drive things today without these measures. As to whether this balance is also developmental and investmental, there has been a lot of talk today about the fact that it is not good to cut investments. These mean a new start, new stuff. I will return to the data, which compared to 2008, when we completed a good period of economic growth and a high budget, the highest in this period of GDP, which was estimated at 37 billion and something else, compared to this year, where the estimate is 35 billion. But with the budget rebalancing, there's still a good 300 million more investment funds. 30 % more. We are reducing them by 300 million, so the budget has been very ambitiously planned, probably not all investments can be made, it is not objectively possible to carry out for reasons that I have previously said are not either spatial acts or projects or other things. In this structure, this 300 million is very encouraging that most of the investment expenditure at the state level is, in fact, only 41 million, from 850 million to 809 million, has been reduced by investment transfers to municipalities, local communities and institutions. This is, of course, still almost once more than in 2008, if there were 486 million at the time, but it is not possible to fully replace that credit potential with 4.4 billion. It is not possible that, of course, the economic momentum in the field of construction would be the same. Not just because there's no money, but because there are no projects. Will we continue to build apartments on stock if we do not already know about a thousand apartments in Slovenia. how and how to engage them in activity? Therefore, from this point of view, this rebalancing is, of course, still trying to engage in this economic growth in some way, and I think it is also good that they have retained funds to promote the economy, both at the Ministry of Economy and at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, where, of course, we are promoting technology, science and such things. Here too, of course, compared to 2008, which is a reference year for me, still a good 200 million more or 30% more. So it's not about some drastic reduction or poverty or naked survival. This budget balance still has development ambitions and development components within it and, of course, investments that have been made and have already been made in advance. The second part is, of course, and I remember the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which reduces costs by 719 million to the general mega amendment and comes to a deficit of 3% of GDP. Someone would say that this is good, excellent, that we are no longer in the criteria of the euro area, problems in fact with our competitiveness and credibility. But when we take a closer look, this amendment reduces the salaries of public servants in particular and, according to the information we received on the committee, this would mean the adoption of this amendment and, at the moment, the reduction in wages for all civil servants in Slovenia from 25 to 30 %. So, the adoption of this amendment means that in August, everyone, without social dialogue, has no difference, without any possibility, reduced wages for the poor 30%! And that is, of course, those salaries that we actually raised by 22% in September 2008. Reform, I myself have worked to convert wages into one of the public sectors, or for a smaller number of people, but about the same, wages have risen from 22% to 25% in one month, not to pay, the mass of wages. Without the salaries of the directors, the institutions and these things, because they had reformed before, two years earlier, and they weren't in on it. I'm only talking about public servants. Of course, when we talk about the public sector and public servants, we need to divide this part into three parts. One part is state and municipal administration, this is part of which, of course, means officials. The second part is the so-called service part where I consider education, health care and all this service part, which is, of course, a supportive part of every society. The third part is the police, the military, the judicial authorities, of course, which we have. Here, of course, the derogations are significantly different, the government has reduced the number of people. This is from the data we have available here, not sufficiently reduced, but reduced. So employment within the state administration is smaller. Is that the way it is within the local administration? Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. Two cities or two places stand out after the number of people in the municipal or city administration has increased; Maribor for 50 people or for a poor 20%; and Postojna for 8 people or 19%. These are the IAPES data I pulled during the period of the mayoral mayors who are. I am convinced that, of course, even in municipal administrations and elsewhere, there is an opportunity for rationalisation, not only in the ministries and in the state administration, which we have talked about today and have also been taught how to cut some and without everything. Secondly, whether it is possible simply overnight for public servants who have contracts, the annexes to contracts signed, not only by employers and these, the annexes and contracts have been prepared and printed, in fact, by the Ministry of Public Administration. We all got them by e-mail with names and surnames with commitments. So this is a contractual obligation, where, of course, it is not possible to do so, it is only possible to make a deal. That is why this balance that we are doing today is actually cutting into parts where an agreement is possible or a faster and more effective contraction. I'm sure there's dissatisfaction with everyone, even with my opinion that we have to delete our investments, but that's the only thing that's possible right now. The point is that even if the rebalance had not been adopted, the ministries would have to do so, because simple money probably would not have been. Then it would have happened as was already mentioned today by the invitation of one school, one renewal of a high school where the ministry said not to do now until we have adopted a rebalance. It's the right thing to do. Simply because we don't know, of course, whether one of the political groups or Members will put the amendment on that item and transfer it to someone else, which means that it would not be possible to implement it and that it would not be possible to implement it. In fact, this is exactly what we would achieve with such a mega amendment, and it would happen that, of course, those who say that investment is not going forward today, by adopting one such amendment, would in fact disrupt the entire financial structure. So it's not that simple or just say that we're going to reduce by a few hundred million, we're going to solve things. It is necessary to work with soundness of mind, well, I hope that the preparation of the 2011 and 2012 budget will result in the fact that we will work programmely, not indexed. When there is indexation, what is happening to us is what colleague Žerjav also pointed out to the Committee on Finance that consumption is actually increasing in the last month of the year. So, in December, material costs are abnormally high. Why? This is because the budget item has to be used. Not because we need it, but because it needs to be spent and because it's being indexed. I hope that in Slovenia, for once, the indexation is over and that we will actually finance programmes that will be fairly realistically evaluated and, of course, also feasible in the financial year. Today we are talking about many projects that we know exactly that they will not be implemented before the end of the year or before the beginning of 2011. In my opinion, these are also largely deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Minister, Secretary of State, other government co-workers, Vice-President. In fact, it is interesting to listen to some of the debaters who, I will say, very much in mind or, as if they were reading a fairy tale, are discussing this budget. Why? Because they just don't look at the content and look at what's behind it. I will demantle some of the indications, or I will use the numbers to illuminate them. There's been a lot of talk about income, expenditure, and so on today, but still. This is how we want to make a comparison for 2010 and now a rebalance or a comparison for 2008. As was said in 2008, there were more revenues than this year. Tax revenues were higher than expenditure, which means roughly that we spent 10% less in 2008 than we produced. In the 2010 budget, which I have pointed out, we have spent 11% more than we have produced, that is already minus 20%, which was negative, was not good, and now between the tax revenues of 7 billion and something, and the expenditure of almost 8.2 billion, and we spend 16% more than we produce or domestically say, every month a worker who receives a salary takes 16% credit to survive. What does he take credit for? Some assets, some silver, something his parents left behind. So where is this farm going to go? On a cliff, and eventually it'll go down. This is how this government is now being driven. We have another source of income, a source of European budget. In 2008, 363 million were transferred from our European budget, which was from that period of pre-accession negotiations, and also from 2004 to 2006, that is, from that period, when it turned out that 95% of the available funds had already been exhausted. About that a little bit later. This means that at that time we have received 360 million revenue from the European Union, 1 billion and 30 million or 40 million are planned this year. Here you have already reduced by about 110 million, which will come from the European Union this year into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Why is there so much less coming? About that a little bit later. This year's investment, Mr. Čepič, is 300 million more than it was in 2008, a brilliant conclusion, crazy, you fall down, you can hang yourself on this number. For 300 million more revenue from the European Union there will be billions and 50 million, at the time there were 300 million and several million and there were investment expenditure of 980 million, almost 1 billion. So, now to say that this is more than nonsense because these revenues are right from the financial perspective period 2007-2013. You're gonna have to prove something with numbers, but I don't know where, except what Yuri said, in cartoons. It really seems to me that some of you are reacting to this budget, because to the budget, after all, to the balance, to this nation, something is waiting for him or how he is already living in this country, is very, very irresponsible. So the savings or surplus or deficit that we produced in 2008 were 65 million plus, and now it's a billion 900 minus. Do you imagine that the date, so it can't be replaced, is still possible to replace this billion 900 minus, which is produced by one billion 200 million on the expenditure itself, which is larger than the revenue, that's 16%, that's one billion 200 to have it in investments, then I'd say it's something along with it, but not the European money that comes from this government sitting on this side today and this coalition, you know, unfortunately, comes from some other governments that did something in 2006, 2007 and 2008. Your result will be seen next year and also two, three years later from this financial perspective 2007-2013. But of course, what a great result is not to be expected, given this balance, when you've lowered 100 million. So, you've actually collected all the investment money from the global with such a continuation, because it's only the one or mostly the ones that have spent from the perspective of 2007-2013 and, of course, spent, so on public consumption, where we shouldn't spend, 16% more than you produce, and in 2008 10% was saved. E One of the discussers was pleased that the investment transfers of municipalities had only been reduced by, in fact, not by saying so, but to the budgetary users by 40 million. The municipalities have been reduced by 3 million. You know why? Because you have no influence on it. Thank God these investment transfers are mainly those of the former Minister of Local Self-Government, Dr Ivan Žagar. All the mayors in the left coalition are waving at him, and they are happy and happy that he was, because there are 300 million Euros of calls in the first year when this was possible. Today these transfers and the billions that you have written here will come from the European budget, even on the basis of this, for regional rural development. Where did you get the $40 million? You basically took them to public institutions, so the ministries picked up those investments that were either in progress or were planned, etc. What are you doing with that? So, Pahor and Jankovic can step aside and say, we are the ones who are happy to destroy, destroy, plant, bankrupt a good company or a financial failure because they have done their work and do not pay for their work and material and will not pay for it. You also told some debaters that there is no money for the work already done. Since, of course, I am working more intensively with regional policy and regional development resources, I will go over this part of the funds received from the European Union budget according to individual items, where you wrote on page 9 in the implementation of the common agricultural policy, that it will be a plus for 12.8 million euros in the common agricultural policy, then of course you will also say that of these 12.8 million euros, 12.1 million will come from 2004 to 2006, which, you know, you know what it says here, that you did not have it for 2010, that it was not planned. Yes, when you took power, you didn't even know, you didn't look at this simple table, how many applications for reimbursement from the Brussels Treasury must come into our budget? You didn't look at it. You didn't even know it. I think it's very interesting. That's an interesting point. But, of course, if you're going to read the budget rebalancing thoroughly, then of course you're going to get this data. Then say here that by 4.8 million euros it will be less. From what, from what perspective? From 2007 to 2013 This is now from this work, which you have been doing with the country since 2009-2010, eighteen months. Two million will be less for fishing. Of course, if you count it down, you don't come to 12 million 800, so the numbers don't even cover up, but that's another story. The structural funds will be 69 million less this year. 57.7 million from the European Regional Development Fund and 12 million from the Social Fund. It says here: "these changes in operational programmes". Why? Because you've gone into changes in the operational programmes. The amendments to the operational programmes were announced here in the National Assembly by the President of the Government and Dr Križanič, Minister of Finance, at the 2010 budget, I think this was last October. Now you write in your explanations that less money from the Structural Funds will be due to the change in operational programmes. If you read some reports from the Commissioner or other representatives of the European Commission, it is clear that you can't just change it that way, and now you've done it, you've done it. What's the result? The result will be that the year, although I do not know if you will hold back from this rebalancing, in view of the imaginary inflows you have written during your income, the 2011 budget or the 2011 balance on this item will be again lower, which means less revenue from the European cash register, and of course that is due to what we have been pointing out for a good year because there are no funds available for the use of these European funds of all three operational programmes. Of course, it is not because you wanted to distribute them differently and put them on items that could benefit your beloved mayor, the only Slovenian municipality you know exists. But all the rest of you aren't really interested in anything anyway. Even more so, what was to be covered by the Government's conclusions from the previous mandate after storms, both broken schools and other public facilities, were not decent, prepared and did not wish to reimburse the municipal budgets, which were paid back by workers, workers, materials companies, jobs and so on. Even if someone's been asking you for 18 months, begging, I don't know what's going on, it can't happen to this government. You know, as long as the fourth local treasury community operates and holds, at least a little, investments over water, only because of these European funds, and also when we have finally pushed you or forced you to that sixth call at the regional level of the last 200 million, something will spin. But when this wagon stops, it's going to cost everything anyway, because at the state level, you've already wiped out all the investments anyway. If we look further, you also wrote in the cohesion fund budget that 61 million will be less and you wrote that 27.3 million will be from the 2004-2006 perspective. So these are just the results of the work of the previous governments that you are now collecting. Once again, the chances of the results and figures for 2011 being around this point should today increase the sleeves and prepare significantly more calls and put them out, and I think you missed it because you have already made a lot of money by changing the operational programmes. When changing operational programmes, I wondered, or we asked here many times, who will answer and how. But who will know about a large part of this government in two or three years from now, who else has been there, will not even remember, let alone someone responsible for it. It should be a material responsibility for such changes and we should set up our own assets and then see how we behave. If public finances were treated as property, of course it would be different. In the area of the adoption of funds from the EU budget for the implementation of centralised and other programmes, you have also written down that there will be €10 million, with 17 million planned. This means that 40% of the funds will be less, then you are here advocating something that is not accepted, harmonised in the European Union. In short, it's absolutely nothing serious. The same will remain with the adoption of funding from the budget for 5.4 million more. Then you wrote that the funds received in other European institutions will be EUR 610 000 and the funds received from other EU institutions have not been planned. I mean, 610 thousand euros wasn't planned, because this guy just doesn't understand how that's possible. If we look at the development programme plan, there are only two cases that have fallen into my eyes, I will mention that you have written in the development programme plan: "Investment will be completed in 2015, worth €4.5 million." That means five years, so about, I don't know 800 grand, a little more, 900 grand a year. But look for the 2010 budget you have 14,000 euros! You want to know what you're gonna do with 14,000 euros? You will order the study, which is such a lame, irrelevant thing, for which in two or three years you will not know what to do with it anyway. What you will do in 2011 with 200 000 euros on such an investment for 4.5 million and in 2012 also 200 000. It is now crucial that your mandate expires in 2012, for the following year, and whoever comes, you just owe it or write it in the development programme plan half a million euros and then 3.5 million next year. Bravo, genius! You're great. You're no better. So for when I'm gone, I'll make investments in the congregation for 100 million, the first two years for 2 million, but after I'm gone, and then for 98 million. I mean, who are you making a fool of, with? Do you really think that we don't all have 5 classes of elementary school in this House or what? Do you think it was just you going to social colleges or something? You really don't get it! Maybe I'm a little more plastic. No, one better case, one more, I won't burden you with that. Yes, of course, because the development programme plan is not linked to Ljubljana, it is out there, what is none of your business. You are so the Ljubljana government, not the Slovenian government anymore. Investment 4.5 million Aha, same as before. [[...]] This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth You have €429 in the budget for this year. From your wallet, pull out 429 euros for an investment of €4.5 million. Tell me about what, is this for some coffee, juice or something? What lunch? I mean, "don't get me fopathic"! In 2011, this is just before the parliamentary elections, as many as 10,000 and 2012. But, you know, next time you're out of line, it's 336 thousand euros, and then suddenly in 2013 you have 4 million euros planned in the development programme plan. That's what the budget rebalancing looks like, if you read it and, of course, if you get a little bit deeper into it. Because it was the use of European funds and because both Minister Križanič and Pahor, President of the Government here, that I was told that this was the most important or that this was one of the most important investment resources that we still need to be careful about, of course, that I am even more interested in this area and that I am giving it so much more attention. I'm not going to go down to where you have other words, I don't know, about public administration, reducing and so on. In changing the operational programmes of cohesion policy, the first objective is for Slovenia, in which, by the way, the previous government worked by preparing it, then came to the Committees of Finance, European Affairs, Economy, Local Self-Government and I do not know where, of course, this government is doing otherwise, but when you prepared this amendment, you wrote that on the basis of this proposal, a debate will be held in the National Assembly. You know what happened? We really discussed this material four times on the Committee on Local Self-Government, but at the initiative of the Slovenian People's Party or at the request of the Slovenian People's Party, which requested a discussion on this material on the Committee on Local Self-Government. We discussed this four times. The following was the content, so the debate was very substantive and here I feel that for the first time with Members and Members of the coalition and the opposition we did not really make much difference, but they were real substantive discussions. And then what happened? We have even adopted conclusions, some so coordinated. One of the conclusions adopted was this: "The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development opposes the proposed changes in the development priority, development of the regions and the modification of the existing accredited decision-making system and the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy proposes to explain the planned attempt to centralise decision-making, which is completely contrary to the principles of coherent regional development. The Committee proposes that the existing decision-making system at the level of the worlds of the regions should be maintained for the prioritisation of the regional development programmes and that this priority should not extend to a range of beneficiaries." And so, among other things, we have adopted a number of conclusions. And what happened? So these conclusions, and the conclusions that were taken by the Committee on Local Affairs on 8 June and one on 15 April, were taken into account by the Government. Nothing. More. Arrogantly that day, she accepted changes in operational programmes and "nothing". What will be your responsibility? Political. The kind you're going to get out of position. That's all. Anything else? No, no, no. Where will the country be? We don't care. Totally in charge. Of course, who's going to save her? The ones that have always been. Workers and farmers. I hope that once these workers and farmers will show their teeth and they will say that we have enough of you, that this country cannot be run or run and we will no longer leave it to you. For a year and a half, well, I won't exaggerate, for a year we ask the committee, we have adopted conclusions, please get a table on one side or a graph, as it was done for the period 2004-2006. Since 2005, 2004, 2006, so 2005 was central, you need to know that plus 2, so now funds are coming in 2010, the period 2007-2013 has plus 2, plus 3 in some areas, but 60 % of the contracts have been signed in half, while the assets have been distributed around 85%. Today, all operational programmes should have approximately 3.2 billion available funds. Don't you? No, you can already see that your income for 100 million, which is the return from the Brussels Treasury to the state budget, is already falling. This, of course, is your responsibility, colleagues and colleagues. If this is, as I said at the outset, that you have made additional public spending by 16%, if this means a new economic paradigm or a new economic platform, then this is really in this direction, as is the case with the purchase of land in Ljubljana, then in the direction What does it say today in the Finances on the Solis? [[...]] About the occupied Stožice in Ljubljana, then about the sale of Kolinska, Nova Ljubljanska banka and more. Finally, you suggest that the opposition and the coalition cooperate. How do you imagine that?Oh, my God! So you come, you dictate yours, and then you leave? This means that there are four members of the coalition and three times as many opposition members who are concerned about what is happening to this country. Then you're arrogantly throwing out investments. In Slovenian Gorica, you have already lost 2 and a half million euros in investments in 2010 on state roads, the budget itself, now nothing in the balance sheet. That's interesting because you didn't have anything else because they're already zero. In short, if you call it a rebalancing, I say it's not a rebalancing, but that it's actually wooding at some great speed against, as some colleagues have said today, against Greece, maybe even worse, because they have a higher starting point and then fall from that. And our workers have 400 or 450 euros in wages and it's going to be a disaster to fall from, and it's already a disaster. I wouldn't have supported it by myself, and I wouldn't have supported it by myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for the general part of the proposal, are there yet? [[...]] I'm sorry. I'm opening time for your application. Here you go. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! There's been a lot of talk about the balance today. In fact, a rebalancing means that the very word itself says that something needs to be reconciled again, that it is unbalanced, in which case there are unbalanced revenue and expenditure, and that in what is significant size. This is said to be a search for a solution when income and expenditure are coordinated. But the only way to find a solution is to pour clean wine, if we operate with real and not with the desired or expected data, but with real data. I've been looking into how the media are reporting on this debate. On one of the websites, I read the following: first of all, there was a very short report on what the President of the Government said: "Slovenia is one of those EU countries that have been relatively successful in the first year of the dramatic fall of gross domestic product," said Pahor, and therefore considers that "we are at that stage of the country's anti-crisis action when we can take some time off, but we still have a number of tasks ahead of us." I'm sorry, that's what the Prime Minister said, but why should we take a breath? Then why does it need a balance? Rebalance means there's been a imbalance. And if there's been a discrepancy, then I don't know why we could take a breath. That's supposed to be the wrong assumption. The President of the government comes in with the wrong assumption that we can take a breath, and we accept the rebalancing. This is in conflict with the logic of what we are doing today. I understand the poetic form of his statement, he has just expressed himself, but the President of the Government, who is responsible for the budget, has expressed himself a little strangely, I can say so with a calm soul. Then this report also states: "I suggest that we meet before summer vacations and see what can be done together is said by the opposition." I think today we have already said that in the SDS we have proposed this 18 months ago so that we can do important things together, plan or talk, at least we have been informed because we have not been informed of important things in the opposition. Some things we only learn from Croatian newspapers, important things. So I don't know if the President of the Government made a little joke about whether it was that day's favorite thought or anything. Or it's already so bad he's calling for help from the opposition. Maybe a little more about that later. The budget at the state level is for citizens and citizens of one country. It is therefore important what citizens and citizens think about government measures in this particular case, about the balance. Do they trust government measures, do they see in these proposed measures a way out of problems or in such a way of rebalancing, and what are the responses? On the same website, I have read a number of responses that go all the way in the same direction, but I will read the one that is even more calm. He says: "I would like Pahor now that he has done everything, to support the opposition. He hasn't listened to them or invited them to cooperate. Now that he's got water running down his throat, we're supposed to be welcome all of a sudden. Let this government save itself, they have already destroyed the people." That's a comment, I didn't make it up, but I think it's very appropriate for today, because a lot of them are going this way. And now I'm going back to what the President of the Government has said: "We can take a breath," What are we supposed to take a breath from now on? Maybe because of the balance sheet, the balance sheet balance, we're cutting money for students' lunches, we're going to save 6 million euros. Before that, however, we could have heard from one of our colleagues that we pay more than 20 million euros a year for foreign ambassadors' rents alone. [[advertising from the hall]] More than 20 million euros! Now there is something else, sir on the other hand, which was not in the previous term. Even for rents in the domestic sphere, let's say we donate 20 million euros to Mr Pogačar, because what he will charge will be more than what he will pay the owner. And that's something new that's been created in this term. But there have also been increased rents for embassies, which are more than one, in this mandate. So, Mr. Frangež, you have to listen to everything I have to say. We have money to pay our colleagues rents that are not even owners, indirectly, we have money for such rents, but we don't have money, let's say full subsidisation of students' lunches. Is that why we should take a breather? Why don't we take a break because we're cutting money for the roads? Or is it because we reduce money for health care and education? Probably not. That would even be demagogy. But look, why am I telling you this? Because I want to tell you one thing. If our assumptions on how we're going to do things are to be based on real data, then things don't go to waste. Recently, we have been able to hear both from the Government and the media, which have provided media support that at this point in Slovenia is probably the biggest problem of on-call doctors. Every month, doctors who have paid slightly more than others are publicly published, and so it is also shown in the media, rather than being able to balance the public balance because of these on-calls, or that everything in Slovenia is the fault of this on-call of doctors. I'm not saying that everything's okay, that we understand each other, that it's okay. However, it is shown as being these, I do not know, 100 or 150 doctors on duty, who have a slightly higher salary, that this is the main sin and the biggest problem of this country. I would like that to be, because then we could solve the financial issue in Slovenia today and balance the Slovenian budget immediately, but that is not the case. But that's how it's shown. This is the third time I've said that if we don't operate on real data or if we are deceiving the public, we will not reach that desired goal. Speaking of salaries, these fabulous salaries of on-call doctors. I calculated that if we took 80,000 civil servants, that's two-thirds of all those working in the public sphere that were paid from the budget, we took 80,000 of them, and if we took an average of EUR 2 000 per year, we would get a savings of EUR 1.7 billion. Surprisingly, this budget has 1.7 billion euro deficits. This is said, not to say 100 or 200 medical salaries, only on-call work, but 80,000 people who are now paid from the state budget should be put on the road in one way or another, and then saved exactly as much as the budget gap in this balance sheet. What do I have to tell you? Two-thirds of the state institutions can be shut down and then you can come to a balanced budget. I will say again, it is necessary to operate on real data, not that the on-call salaries that doctors have are the main problem in Slovenia. However, when we talk, I admit that the Minister has already spoken about the public sector as a whole over the last few days. That's something else. And that's progress. It's getting closer to real data. By presenting to the public for six months these doctors who have so much pay because they are on duty, we have deceived the public and spoken unrealistically. Before that, it would likely be necessary to pour pure wine and say that a cut will be needed. It'd be a lot easier. But this is because we have been robbing even health care because of, I don't know, 200 on-call people on duty and being shown to be the main culprits in Slovenia because public finances are unbalanced and now I'm just waiting for the budget to be rebalanced, that's all I'm waiting for. Then we can say that during this whole period, because we have warned you much earlier that there will be a need for a rebalancing and here today we tell you that this rebalancing cannot be the last, because it is based on unrealistic, still unrealistic foundations. The data that the budget deficit is 5% are also probably not purely based on real data. Today, it has already been mentioned that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Statistics Office recently found that in the first quarter of this year the budget deficit is 9.6% of gross domestic product. It probably wouldn't hurt to say that. I'm sorry. Maybe next quarter will be better. But with real data, we need to operate, not hide everything, because we have 5%, and others are even worse in some countries, and we return to how all the fault of the previous government is, how the previous government overheated the economy, and you say in the same breath that there was too much investment at the time, and now, in this period, there are more investment funds than there were in the previous mandate. This really isn't working out. And you're gonna have to deal with that and decide what you want to say with that. Something's not working out. Then the economy will be even hotter now or your theory that in the previous term the economy has been overheated because of the government does not count. Something's not working out. There's something else I'd like to say that you've been complaining all along about how your previous government cooked everything for you. You've forgotten you've been in power for 18 months. You have everything in your hands, scissors and canvas. We have proposed various measures for you, and you immediately refused. Yeah, how could you say no? Yes, because you have a majority. That means if you have a majority that you can take your action. You just need to have your clear goals, perspective on what you want to achieve and what measures you will achieve. Obviously, it hasn't been so far, and this balance, I'm not quite sure it's going this way, that it's going to happen. But well, at least you realized that something needs to be fixed, something doesn't go together, but 18 months is over. But you're acting like you're ruling, but your stupidity is the fault of the previous government or your failure to act like I'm in a nicer form. That's right. You can't make excuses anymore. I'm afraid that's not going to work. Of course, I will not support the balance, and that is why I will not support it, because there is also assistance to Greece in such a form. Of course we'll talk about it on Tuesday. Even if there's time, I'll say a word. But this, as it was said, is helping the Greek government, and the Greek state, if you want, so that some public servants in Greece can have, I don't know 13, 14, 15, 16th salary, about Greece. Of course, we are tightening the belt with us because we have to, I have no comment that the Government is preparing this, only if the measures are right, that is another, without any guarantees, commitment, which is what we are doing in a way that is not the last thing, and that is not the last thing, since it is likely that another shipment for Greece will come, whether it will be in the balance or otherwise, that is what the Government will say, which is significantly greater than that. In doing so, what I said at the beginning of our budget is from students, roads, health care and education, but in Greece, there is nothing to hear except that tourists who are there, who may also be helping Greek tourism and the Greek state to get along with a few more finances, are complaining that they can't just come home because public servants are strikers because they can't stand to have more 14. This is not going together, and it would probably be right if representatives, our representatives, when they have meetings at the level of the European Union with regard to assistance to Greece, even say so. We can sprawl in our home, but it is also right that the Greeks provide some guarantee and that they will somehow consolidate there, and they have only 12 salaries, as we have them in Slovenia. It is impossible to tell the Slovenians that we will be a little restrictive at the 12th salary, but the Greeks will still have 14 I don't know, 16 wages in a sector. That probably doesn't work out. I know it's funny, but I think after 18 months, we should think a little bit about this rebalancing of 1.7 billion deficits. All that deficit we've been producing when we measure it with GDP, when we've increased it by 65%, less than in two years, I'm not laughing anymore. However, whether I am in opposition or in government, because all together, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to fix this. We like it or we don't. Only one will be more responsible and the other less, and that's all the difference, and we'll all pay. That's what I'm trying to tell you. As long as you're making fun of this and you won't want to accept the real data, which I started and I've already told you three times, and I'll do it again. As long as we don't operate on real data and deal with it, we won't be able to come to a solution that long, and it's always going to be a difficult situation. And if there is, then we can't make fun of our opponents here in Parliament if they want to pour us pure wine. Then you're telling us to help you. We've already offered you this, but now you're making fun of us giving you specific data, real data. That's what you're making fun of. How can we then take the President's offer or, of course, you don't sniff the President, let him talk his way and we have our own thoughts. That's the problem. Of course, until we all take this seriously, it will be so hard to come up with real solutions that we will have to come up with in one way or another. I am just afraid that as much money as it is in Greece, this will not happen in Slovenia and that we will be wised first and that we will tell you sooner that something needs to be done. Of course, as I have said, I will not support the rebalancing, because I do not think that we are going in the direction of some investment activity that can revive the economy and even because of this Greek case, I will not support it, because I cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In 2007, the government adopted the Resolution on National Development Projects. This was the resolution in which the two bearing projects were the most difficult, including the financial ones. One was the construction and modernisation of the railway network in the Republic of Slovenia by 2023 with the construction of high-capacity railway lines on both corridors, 5 and 10. The second was, of course, the completion of the highway program on the section of the Pirin highway from Slivnica and then to Draženci and forward to Gruškov. Of course this missing coastal ipsilon Postojna–Divača do Jelšan and the border with the Republic of Croatia forward to the river, as well as of course all the development axes. In addition to this supporting resolution, all the professional starting points, which set the time frame for the preparation of the documentation and, of course, only the construction, of course, have been prepared, so that this biggest investment project is needed by the State of Slovenia if it does not want to fall behind in the competitiveness of the other Member States of the European Union and if it is to enter the European space, of course it must also be done. When the government was replaced, the new Transport Minister was very optimistic in one of his first statements after the term of office even said: "No, we will speed up the delay. We will speed up the delay and, of course, continue these investments and not just continue to build on them, upgrade them for more money, and above all our priority is to build railway links." At least on my part, as well as on the part of my fellow Members on the Committee on Transport, we had no problem with this. Because if we go anywhere, then we know we need it, and here we always say we're going to be constructive, just to make the project work. This has also, of course, been reflected in the 2009 budgets and also in the multi-fund rebalancing, even in the latter for 2010. So there's nothing more to add to today's rebalancing that we have on the table. Today, it is the Ministry of Transport that has lost the most at the expense of capturing macroeconomic indicators and budgets. It loses 180 million euros in total, of which 96 million for investment in rail infrastructure and about 52 million for investment in road infrastructure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please read the magnetogram of the last Transport Committee, which sounded sad. Read it. Mr Janko Weber, President of the Committee on Transport, was very sad. He said in its entirety that they could not accept this reduction as a committee. Even more critical was later the director of the Roads Directorate, who, of course, said nicely that this was no longer about stagnation, but it was about downgrading. It is no longer just 10% of the projects, it is 800 projects that are falling. Look at the budget items, formerly colleague Pukšič very vividly explained these items. You have huge 500 euro items in the road area, which are listed for EUR 500 only, and serious overcoating projects that require millions of euros to stay within the balance sheet, that the item is somehow alive. But we know that all these Euros will move forward. And now we are at the point where it will not hold that it is the fault of the global crisis, that major state infrastructure projects in this country cannot be implemented. It won't hold, it might, but they're moving into the future. Now we have to ask ourselves, why are they moving to the future? Probably not because of the global crisis, they are moving into the future because the other procedures that should be running parallel are not running. We know that the reason is that things do not go forward, that investments do not take place, that it is not possible to continue projects, too slowly putting routes into space. It was promised the Law on the Placement of Line Objects in Space. Do you know when he was promised? He was promised at the end of 2009. As promised by the National Programme for the Development of the Slovenian Railway Infrastructure at the end of 2009, as promised by the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways and the State Road Network. Now we are moving slowly towards the second half of 2010. I think there is no reason why investments in rail infrastructure and the road network are not carried out at least in these development axes. There is no reason in the global economic crisis, but in the mere slow placement of routes into space or in the too slow work of people in the ministries. Therefore, of course, it was welcome that all this large money that had been reserved could simply be taken from these investment projects. However, let us not forget that such a move of projects, at least the construction of railway infrastructure, means that the railway infrastructure will not be completed in 2023, to be completed, I don't know, maybe in 2030 or later and that it is not therefore the fault of the global financial crisis, but it is the fault of the slow work in the ministries. Of course, it is now welcome to take this money out of investment. Then we cannot talk about the development and investment budget, but if the main investments we need are virtually standing or not standing at the moment, they are moving into the future. As these plans of development programmes can be read, in fact, the vast majority of investments that will have their realisation after 2012, when, of course, another coalition will be responsible for leading the government. But the burdens are already on us, and in fact, it seems to us a great deal of damage. It is a pity that this slogan, which Minister of Transport Patrick Vlačič has asked us to speed up the delay, the government, the coalition, that it is not actually accelerating now, but that the delay is only increasing and we can be quite disappointed as citizens of this country. Of course, we can be even more disappointed with the fact that when our investments delay while we wait for better railway connections, we will, of course, pay for the most expensive petrol in the neighborhood. We've already got blame for 70 percent already. Of course, what may not be part of this budget, but it will be judged later, but it will soon be part of the guarantee, but it is the fact that, in these times, it is 153 million dollars to develop an electronic toll system for the free movement of passenger vehicles, which no country has ever developed within the framework of the European Union, while all our investments are on the rail and road network, forgive, and this is a project that can be carried out without concern into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Days ago, we were able to read the Nobel Prize winner for the economy, Mr Krugman, that now is not the time to withdraw public financial incentives. By the way, the exit strategy is basically designed at European level as a strategy for a coordinated withdrawal of public financial incentives in order to maintain financial stability. Mr Krugman has demonstrated that the rapid withdrawal of public financial incentives may threaten economic recovery, and this is certainly one of the things that needs to be considered in greater depth. But at the same time, I think that we must all work together to find that this is at European level, and our responsibility is highlighted in this regard. Especially at home, public finances need to remain stable and must be consolidated. If we can think of anything as the cause of the global economic and financial crisis, this life is beyond ability, beyond what our economy can pay. I think Greece is the most illustrative example for this. Therefore, I think it is right that, at this point in time, a process is under way in Europe and that Slovenia is a creative and constructive part of this process to ensure future financial stability, in order to also provide assistance to countries that are in need of such assistance, with appropriate commitments to take care of the reform process. I agree with the previous opposition speaker that it is not possible to provide assistance to another country if this country fails to provide adequate reforms at home and as long as there are such imbalances, say, in the amount of pensions here or in Greece. These are issues that still need to be addressed actively in regulating the future fiscal system within the European Union. But not only will you create the impression that now helping Greece is the only thing that is happening, it is not a lonely process. At European level, as we say with the constructive cooperation of Slovenia as one of the few countries that has the ability to help in the given situation, and this may be paradoxical, here in this Chamber we are at every subject, with every issue facing the aggressive perception of the opposition as we fail to face the crisis at home, but yet at European level we are one of the economies and countries capable of helping and ensuring the stability of our common system. It is not about helping some isolated island, but it is about helping to ensure the stability of this basic infrastructure on which our common story is based. These are not lonely measures. I was just reading a proposal for a regulation today, a European Regulation on credit rating agencies. By the way, the credit rating agencies, and the fact that they were fully left to market logic and that a good assessment could be bought, have cooked up the situation in Greece in order to establish a stabilisation fund in order to strengthen control of Member States' fiscal policy. These are things that need to be understood as related in order to effectively avoid scenarios such as Greek in the future at European Union level. I think it's the right process. Otherwise, my dears, let us ask again why we are members of the European Union, why are we members of the euro? In this case, if we are to reply here to the relevant answers to such questions, which are common European questions, we need to re-examine the decisions we have taken in the past and I still believe that they have been correct. I also agree with many who claim to exist within the public sector of the reserve and that our government's response to the need to rationalise the public sector could be more decisive. But remember that, all the way from the beginning of this mandate to today, we are engaged in stabilising public spending in this public sector to ensure rationalisation in order to ensure that at least what the state is obliged to give to public officials on the basis of salary reform during your term of office is delayed. In this respect, I think that more can be done, but that is why we need to modernise the public sector because it is not easy to say that the country today can survive with one third of the fewer employees. We need adequate programmes for the first time in order to ensure that these people, and for the second time in order to enable the country to perform equal quality public services, equal efficiency or better efficiency of the country. By the way, given that the opposition is proposing a moratorium on the establishment of new agencies and the return to the state on 1 January 2008, I see the agencies introduced by this government as a means of modernising the public sector and they are all more or less fiscally neutral as a means of modernisation, in order to better organise this public sector to carry out its tasks more effectively and to be more successful as a society as a whole in this regard. When I also hear a comment that the reduction of employees within the public sector could affect the quality of public services. I think that this is a real danger and that this process must therefore be entered very carefully. I also expect the competent ministry to play a more active role in this regard. I understand that today it is a very difficult task to remain faithful to social dialogue, so that we can also successfully address the whole set of these great tasks and the great challenges facing the Slovenian public sector. I do not condemn them because I may miss more activities and bolder steps in this direction, because I am aware that they are fully burdened by what needs to be done to resolve the issue of public finances at this time. But I am also sure that this public sector has a lot of savings, and here I will allow myself one assessment – that we still throw a lot of money, even during this crisis, out the window. I will give an example of one call, I will not name which call was made, carried out by a public law institution. The money available was, say, 100 units and the formula for selecting the best bidder was set up on these 100 units. When an offerer claimed it himself, prepared an offer and found that it was worth the economics, on 70 units, and then he thought, "I will be a little more competitive, I will give it a discount", with the corresponding and similar guarantees, like the other bidders, not being chosen. Because the formula was set to 100 units. By the way, in this story of the public tender, the state has given 10 million euros more for some infrastructure than it should have been. These are real stories that are still happening. I am sure that, not because someone on them has a greasy service, even if it is possible, but because simply in some things over and over, in the entire history of 20 years in this country we have not been able to develop enough effective mechanisms to make the best use of the unit of publicly invested money. There are reserves here, and I think it is time to open this difficult and hard debate in this country about how we will increase our accountability to public finances. By the way, in all the views of our parliamentary group so far, on public financial documents, we have stressed this need for public finances to be responsible so that this common nominee, which falls or holds back the national economy, cannot be put at any risk. It seems to me that today, to a large extent, this debate is actually a debate on the interpretation of the economic policy performance of the Government. The opposition is trying to prove that it is not successful, so that the government is failing, and the coalition is trying to prove otherwise. I think he's holding on to each other. There are issues where we could and should be more successful, questions where we have produced a satisfactory assessment in an appropriate counter-crisis response. I am not saying that there have been no mistakes, I am not saying that in what area we could not have reacted better, but what we need to find out is that in the given situation, after this crisis has lasted almost two years and after it started to last, we have still, in an important part of Slovenian politics, which today represents the opposition, claimed that nothing will happen, that the crisis will not be, that the crisis will not be, that we are in excellent condition, that we have carried the whole skin with large wounds, in particular the wounds of those who represent a statistical number on the increase of unemployment in that country, and we know that it is factor 1, 2. But, ladies and gentlemen, this year not only has this unemployment stabilised, that we have managed to stem further growth, but the data of the last period show that unemployment is beginning to decline and employment is beginning to grow again. For some social democratic government, I think this must be one of the key criteria for some success. We have undoubtedly been less successful on the issue of our public debt. The fact is, in a very short period of time, we have greatly increased this curve. But why? So we didn't get to the radical scenarios. Because we have not reached a rapid increase in poverty in our community. In order to maintain at least the existing level of social cohesion in our society and to rapidly increase our incentives to the economy and the resources we are earmarking for the technological and development breakthrough of our economy during the crisis. At a time of crisis, ladies and gentlemen, and whether we are looking at the adopted budget for this year or looking at this balance, the funds for these purposes are substantially, substantially greater than ever before in the history of this country. Because we are aware that only the knowledge and creativity of our people will save us in the long term. In this respect, they're not good. Europe is looking forward to the so-called Slugish growth, the so-called forecast of very slow growth. And if we want to dynamic and compensate the Slovenian economy in this respect, then it is essential that we open new markets to the Slovenian economy. I don't think anyone talked about it today. But some Libya, which at this moment is really saving perhaps part of the economy, part of the construction industry, is, in my opinion, a promise that through such a policy we are opening new doors to ourselves in other sectors of the economy. We know that we will no longer be able to reach 7% in the European market. It is therefore necessary to focus more actively on those markets that can count on higher levels of economic growth in the coming years. In this regard, this government is doing so, and this government is doing so very successfully, more successfully, in the truth of love than it would have allowed itself to dream long ago. There is something else to be said about some other current issues that are also closely related to this balance. In recent days we have been able to read in Slovenian media the ominous forecast of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank or at least a forecast of reflection. In our parliamentary group, we have repeatedly acknowledged in our views on this issue that we are not at all inclined this way, that we believe that there is no time to sell state property. Not for the first time, and this debate, in my opinion, is premature in this respect, because today it is impossible to achieve an optimum purchase because capital markets are in a very different condition, as they may be after economic movements stabilise. Secondly, because we have adopted a Capital Investment Management Act in the National Assembly, which provides, inter alia, that the Capital Investment Management Agency must prepare and that the Government and the National Assembly approve the Capital Investment Management Strategy. This strategy will be an opportunity to discuss what is strategic investment and what is not. I warn against overcoming this process and further determining what we will sell, especially if it is the largest state bank. My position on the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Maribor Credit Bank, the investments of the state or state funds in Gorenje and other propulsive Slovenian companies is practically the same. If someone is willing to give their money to the state, why the hell isn't it worth it to the state? Here we come up with the answer to that question. On my facebook page today there are a number of answers to this question and everyone says that because the country is poorly mastered with its assets. She's owned it by now. With the Capital Investment Management Agency, we need to change this process and finally prove that the country can be a good and capable owner and a good, capable master. But we must therefore give this agency the opportunity to set up truly the best people who will have a moral and ethical commitment to the value of state property, which will respect this role of state as owner, so that they will manage this property in an optimal and professional manner. Sales, privatisation is an irreversible process. We can also see this in these days with Droga Kolinska. It's an irreversible process. We must not make mistakes that are irreparable at a time when it comes to our fingernails when this public financial resource is still precious. This should be warned whenever possible. At least personally as a Member of this National Assembly, and until I am a Member of the Green Light Assembly for this process, I am not ready to give. Also IPO's public supply of shares, in my opinion, is not an answer at this time. This process was put through Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor and I am afraid that for a long time we have infected the interests of the people to invest our resources in Slovenian companies, because we sold shares in 27, and some have then criticised that the price of the stock is too high and today it is 11 euros. President Türk invited us, in his speech at the celebration of the Statehood Day, to have some new responsibility that this country needs. Each of our peoples, citizens and citizens, but I think that we are also very much in these trenches, we are very much concerned with interpretation, everyone, and perhaps it is time, and therefore I am pleased to invite the President of the Government to come together in some things, despite the conceptual differences that are certainly the most difficult and will be overcome, because the time is such and the challenges are as great as I have said in the National Assembly on various topics that Slovenia must unite. It should also be combined by this rebalancing because it basically represents a responsibility to public finances as the fundamental social framework on which this Slovenia and its life are being driven.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Hello, Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Secretary, Fellow Members and Members! We have a budget balance ahead of us, but I think he's missing two words. One word is that if this rebalancing is written for just one day or until a vacation, or for a whole year, I don't know if there's a magic word missing that you have to or should start implementing measures immediately, not 18 months when the fighting happens a little. Today, the Prime Minister has actually said that there are some countries in the world that are lucky and successfully running the country. But Europe does not have this happiness. In Europe, all countries are suffering from a crisis, especially Slovenia, which has also become in serious deficits. Only in the first quarter of this year is minus 9.4% of the point, which we produced in 2009 compared to 5.7% of the points. These are the data that is worrying. In this balance there are actually ticklish things, funds for the most important things – the economy. But it's forgotten about bureaucracy again, about public administration, where it's actually the most important thing to do. Thank God that the Ministry of the Economy has earmarked certain funds in which programmes have not actually been used, to re-analyse in fact to other programmes, so that at least a few funds have been made available. Just something, when 480 applications were actually sent, only 140 were granted. I'm afraid there's no more money. The economy would still invest in infrastructure, in technology, but unfortunately it is not. This government, these ministers unfortunately find no common interest in a better tomorrow. It is very worrying that last year's ministries have actually increased costs by 1.4 billion. It is a matter of concern that, in fact, 2 000 800 people were employed in the public administration last year. These are alarming numbers, instead of reducing things, we are actually increasing them. There's been a lot of talk about Greece. The Committee on Finance raised a clear question: Is it the Directive of the European Union that it must join the aid? It has been made clear that there is no directive, but in fact from social dialogue we are once again Slovenians first in this history. That's when I said to the stoyers, "the hungry crow feeds the crow." We're Slovenians. If a piece of land has to be donated, if anything needs to be done for a foreigner, just not for a Slovenian, from a fossium or anything, we're the first. But not to think of our citizens, of these gods, there are only 2 million of us. This balance does not yet show all the means to be deleted. So I asked if this balance was valid for just one day or until summer vacation. You're also aware of the mistake we've made. How much money will go through. Now, citizens and citizens, we still have bread and milk, unfortunately believe that the milk will soon run out if we have more to eat. Again, we have come to the point that we have raised our excise duties as a percentage. Excise on energy, electricity, gas, petroleum derivatives. This is all a condition for a competitive economy. This is all a condition for the survival of citizens and citizens. I absolutely agree to raise excise duties on alcohol, cigarettes and to find xx things that we can literally call luxury, if we can call it. By no means should we actually fall into the genes of citizens and citizens. That's what we're doing. It's a disaster. It is fortunate that Slovenians and Slovenians do not have such sharp winters that they actually freeze out of the cold. Do you know how much money we actually raise? Do you know how many transit trucks drive across Slovenia and don't even leave one cent of fuel with us? Slovenian trucks are also completely refueling abroad, as we are among the most expensive countries in Europe. Unfortunately, Slovenia is a country where foreigners can leave, if I can call it shit and waste. I don't know, at least our ancestors wouldn't let my parents do what we do. Colleague Frangež said about the New Ljubljana Bank that it was written in newspapers about possible actual sales. That's pressure now. We have donated part of the territory to Croatia, but now it is pressure on the Ljubljana Bank. It's probably the only way to get rid of this pressure. These are mistakes that go from chair to chair or from wheelchair to wheelchair. This isn't the last pressure. There will be more pressure from day to day. I would like all of us to come together to realize that we really need to move this wagon forward and actually start taking action immediately. In fact, we have already given three packages of measures in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not one has been heard, not one has been heard. Today, the Prime Minister has actually offered his hand. Yeah, I don't know, we were ready long ago, at the beginning of the term. If not all of us, we are here in Parliament 14, pardon 17 economists. Let him ask for advice, and he may always have open doors in all chambers of commerce or commerce. He's gonna get all this stuff right here in the first place. I hope you understand these things he's saying. I hope you realize where we're taking this ship. I don't want to, at least not in front of my sons, tell myself that this ship will be on land, not at sea, if there's anything else to have. I'd like to think clearly, really get together, start thinking about a better tomorrow, because if we just accuse each other, they're blaming it, they're blaming it, I don't think it's a way out of the crisis. It's 18 months, and it's still Janša's government. 18 months. I don't know. Let's stop blaming ourselves and let's think about it, or it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. The budget, of course also as a budget rebalancing, is, in essence, a summary or the result of, above all, past economic policy, fiscal policy, government and, of course, countries, and it is also a reflection and a result. This can undoubtedly only show numbers and here say that the opposition or coalition of these different numbers interprets is ridiculous and unrealistic. Why am I saying that? When a coalition colleague explained by the SD how we interpret our numbers or the success of the government differently. The numbers show whether the government has been successful or not in these 18 months. Unfortunately, the well-respected government and coalition, the numbers don't show that. They don't show, and then it's also a reflection of the bad, unsuccessful, uninnovative part of your mandate. Unfortunately, all the measures that you're referring to have been taken are few, but those that have been do not show those effects. For the result as it is is disturbing. I was already skeptical when we adopted the 2010 budget, in my debate with him, at the time I proved that he was unrealistic, that we would soon need a rebalancing, that we would have met him in July, that we should probably have him in January and February, and I'm afraid we'll have to do it again. For this is also unrealistic, because things will not happen in the future, as is predicted here. Based on the wrong assumptions, this is proved to you by the well-known recognised macroeconomicists who, based on the results we have in Slovenia, show completely different projections than they are here. And sooner or later, we're going to witness a new rebalancing that's definitely gonna get worse. In this I agree with those who say that this balance is good, it can be good compared to what we will have in a few months, because it will certainly be even worse. Certainly, however, this is not the result of a good work ahead. The president of the government or the government said it was an anti-crisis rebalancing. I would call it a crisis, because this balance will increase the crisis in Slovenia, for sure. What are the characteristics of this rebalancing? But he's cutting off his investment? In particular, it reduces them, keeps them at a ridiculous amount of some 100 euros and translates them into next year or years, say in the field of health. Huge funds are being taken funnyly and it is planned that in 2011, when the funds are even smaller, those investments that are urgently needed will be moved to 2011. I'm sure they won't, 'cause there's gonna be less money. They either suspend or reduce funds where even in dreams they should not decrease, in the area of civil protection, so that rescuers who save lives on the road in the mountains are rightly asked whether there will be a reduction in the means here for those involved to now ask themselves whether the money will be justified when someone has to be saved. There's a drop in blood supply. Already in Slovenia we do not reach those expected needs to collect blood, and this is where they decrease. Wrong world. There is an increase in debt, this is somehow known to be very much growing here, while in that part that is the only solution on the revenue side, there is no success. Any economist or I'll say a healthy farmer's mind shows that whatever's created, of course we can waste it. But here, the story is reversed, we're wasting more than of course we're creating. Here to boast that how successful this move was to preserve how many jobs I do not know, it is also questionable. Provide data services or find out how many subsidies have been used to maintain jobs. Many comments were received by Members themselves. How many companies have they abused? I'm afraid it wasn't really a measure that would provide some perspective, but we did eat or eat seed potatoes if we said in jargon, a good farmer on the farm. Only a resuscitation of the economy, a respected government, can save us from this situation. But it's the other way around. The economy is sinking more and more. More and more. Look, I'm sorry. Why don't we cut taxes, taxes, taxes, taxes? A lot of people are going to laugh, and they're going to say, "What are we going to have in the budget?" In the course of the night, this measure can be such that it brings us into a situation where there will be an additional debt. But the new company will have some new products, new programs, and will employ people, if not sooner, and then again in a few months it will start providing our liquidity or budget with financial resources. That's the only way. Here is this famous economic cycle that can increase it as a snowball, this economic activity and thus revenue into the budget, and this is driving development. We had one in 2008 and then, due to the economic crisis, this cycle began to turn in a different, negative direction. In Europe, of course, they have managed to stop and turn the wheel in a positive direction, but unfortunately we are still turning it in that disastrous, destructive direction! These optimistic assumptions about how we're going to get to know each other in the next year, and what you don't believe, what experts don't believe, and they don't believe you, who don't know each other very well about these things, and neither do we, and I believe that not even in the coalition. [[...]] Here they must, and I believe they have great difficulties in providing such a balance, because it's hard to talk about something you don't believe in. Look, as I said, only by reviving the economy can we create new tides, but in Slovenia we are facing another major problem and not one measure, not one law, at least I don't know it, and now I am a Member in the second term, and especially now there would be a need for special attention. How can we control the grey economy? In Slovenia, according to estimates, which I believe can be relatively real, there are 10 billion revenues from the grey economy. And if we could only tax 10 billion with 20%, we'd have a 2 billion inflow in the budget and we wouldn't have any debt. Look, here are those options, ladies and gentlemen of the government and also from the coalition, if taxes were to be reduced, if income were to be reduced, all that is. Many, who now prefers to take risks, because of course it pays off, rustles at home and puts that money in his pocket, but if he had favourable conditions, a favourable tax burden would be for his safety, but for his better feelings he would rather do things as prescribed by law and, of course, give the emperor what he, of course, needs to be given to the emperor. Just one more comment on one coalition Member's thesis, that Slovenia is capable of helping other countries and of course we can be proud of it. I don't know if we're really capable of doing this! Earlier, a colleague had already mentioned that hungry crow feeds sieves. Look, I'm gonna give you another case here, even in the coalition it was possible to hear that we were all on the same boat. No, we're in the same garden. Only with the difference that the Slovenians live at least healthy with water, bread, vegetables, neighbors, the Greek case or I will tell the Greeks with wine, grilled food and so on. No one is even aware that tomorrow will not be possible, only a cave, and now the Slovenians will have to assure him that he will, of course, be able to live that way tomorrow. Until they squeeze the belt themselves to be somewhere on the same level, then there is no point in us trying to give help to those who may not really need it. But we will discuss this on Tuesday, when of course this law will also be discussed. Of course, I will not confirm this balance or vote in favour, because it is bad and it is only a matter of time before we have a new one. Probably before the end of 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I expected that the debate on the rebalancing would actually turn into a range of classical words and conceptual exercises. If someone leaves this hall and comes in within 1 or 2 hours, he hears the same things and does not know exactly whether he is at this meeting or is dreaming at a previous meeting. The same dilemmas are repeated, the same assessments, and we are obviously faced with similar problems. Problems are recurring and this is also not the first balance in this mandate. People who listen to us and watch us need to be very clear about what the balance means. The rebalancing takes place when we want to adapt the macroeconomic indicators of our country and our financial environment to a sustainable framework. There's no money. There is significantly less money flowing into the state budget than we planned and, therefore, the budget needs to be adjusted to facts and realities. I think we're all aware of this. We don't need to be financially subdued to understand. In each family or in each individual, the same logic — when you no longer have income or planned incomes are not what you expected because of special economic and financial circumstances, things need to be adjusted. This adjustment of ours is talking about what? That our government has strategically decided to keep the deficit of gross social product below the 5% threshold. This deficit, which is below such a threshold, is still sustainable. What goes beyond this threshold would bring us much closer to some scenarios we do not want. Therefore, the discussions that have tried to prove that we are approaching Greece with such rebalans are completely absurd. Because it is quite the opposite – the rebalancing and taking into account the real situation and adapting to the real situation prevents Slovenia from actually approaching the Greek scenario. When we tighten the belt, it is better to tighten it gradually, because if we tighten it at once, too strong, we might harm each other, and this happened in Greece. In Greece it was not tightened and at a certain point they realized that things were no longer going forward and people went to the streets. Slovenia is significantly more responsible, and when it adopted the logic of the euro and the common financial strategy of the euro area, it was precisely aware that certain rules must be adhered to to to ensure the sustainability of its own finances. That is why today we are discussing a balance that is always inevitable in pain. Because the rebalancing does not mean that we get more money and that we will distribute it in a way that everyone is more satisfied, but vice versa, it means that there is no money and that this arrangement needs to be realized at the expense of the expectations of the majority in this society. This time, too, we are dealing with a concrete fact, as well as the current opposition, if it were in the hands of the government to exercise and to face such a situation, it would probably be in a very similar way, if not the same. Rebalance is a project that needs to be understood and metabolised by the entire political spectrum, not just by the government. I envy that you are sitting in a position where it is very easy to read the rebalancing of a lot of weak points, to offer alternatives such as the one we just heard, which sounds very nice, let's cut taxes, let's cut excise duties, great, but also the proponent of such measures said that in the short term it would mean a greater debt and in the long term three points. In the long run, we don't know. We are now trapped in a financial, economic crisis, in a financial spasm that is not Slovenia. It is global and is, above all, European. So that speculation in the long run, speculation would actually mean that they would now renounce the tides that come from tax items or excise items, in order to achieve a larger, more intense dynamic in the economy in the long term, is Russian roulette, is a bluff. We can conceptually and theoretically agree very much that this would certainly be beneficial for the economy, but in this situation, we do not know in this particular situation how long the crisis will take, what if there was no acceleration, but would significantly increase the debt, would significantly increase the deficit and would then end up in Greece. This is the risk that the real government, which must meet at the moment, not only to its own public, to its own citizens, but also to the euro area to which we belong, cannot afford macroeconomic actions that ensure sustainability. Not at the moment. Your government wouldn't have been able to afford it if you had ruled. I am therefore afraid that, as usual, in the rebalancing, there is room for quite a bit of verbal and conceptual exercise, where populism is and also demagogy has many opportunities to deal with government policy. We have heard that they are involved in the rebalancing and that they are guilty of the rebalancing, I don't know, from the Greeks to erased and so on, we haven't even heard the bulmastifs today, but they'll probably show up in some kind of debate. That's why I'm calling for serious. Rebalancing is serious. It would be good to find out and together try to come up with some of the conclusions that are, I will use that famous word, the national interest. It is a national interest at this point in time for Slovenia to maintain financial stability so that Slovenia retains sustainable finances to provide all citizens with a decent life. That is why we need excise duties, and that is why we need some cuts, and this time the government has decided to take the most money away from investment, material costs and to replace a certain deficit by increasing excise duties on the account of those products and those products that are not yet so criticalally expensive compared to the average and such prices in neighbouring countries or comparable countries, with Slovenia, comparable countries in the euro area. Our gasoline is still competitive compared to Italian, for example. Our electricity is still relatively cheap compared to electricity on the outside of the border. Of course, it sounds a little strange to say this at the salaries of workers and workers, citizens and citizens in Slovenia, because we know that the average purchasing power of our worker is quite low. Within this framework, including within the support that we have already expressed to this balance, we are also taking into account some of the nuances, some of the differences that are significant in this coalition, even when we are talking a little more in the long term about the budgets that are waiting for us for 2011 and 2012. As previously said by Cveta Zalokar Orazem, we too lack too little programme ambition in this rebalancing. This rebalance shows, once again, as a fire operation, of course, it is no longer essential than a manoeuvre to maintain and maintain financial sustainability, but it is difficult, even objectively, for the Government to admit that it would be difficult to make something development-oriented from this rebalance. Very hard. When you cut and when you cut money, it is almost impossible to act stimulatingly, to allow accelerations, so we feel and feel that the government and the coalition must deal primarily with priorities. In this rebalancing, it is not yet clear what these priorities should be; let us hope that further budgets will make these priorities clearer and investment, particularly infrastructure investments, one of the national priorities. It goes also to those who say that by reducing investments, of course, we are also reducing dynamics, economic dynamics, employment dynamics. In fact, by reducing wages to the public sector, we must be aware that we are also reducing our contributions, including part of our revenue and reducing our purchasing power. So, we have chosen a European path, if I may call it, the German way of saving. We have not chosen Obama's American pathways to accelerate consumption or greater market dynamics, to increase purchasing power, and then return to this investment on other routes. We've got two options. We have to choose one or the other. The government has chosen an option that has prevailed in Europe at this time, which is dominant in the euro area. That's saving. Saving and waiting for better times for that option, which must also take into account the sustainable developmental edge. So consumption itself, consumption itself is not a long-term solution. The Council, which seeks to limit or prevent climate change and environmental disasters, must be aware that such consumption is also problematic. At the moment, we are talking about an option advocated by the German school, which is the only way to stabilise the euro right now and to protect it from possible scenarios, such as Greek or tomorrow, Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, we do not yet know and hope that these hypotheses are a little exaggerated. However, the fact that Slovenia belongs to a group of countries that will help Greece proves that, within the perception of the European Union and especially within the perception of the euro area, we do not belong to the group of the most problematic countries. We belong to a group of responsible countries. Those countries which balance or allow for the maintenance of financial sustainability with simple rebalancies. If we remain, if this is a strategic definition of the government to remain within those 5%, this means a serious decision, which must also be implemented. However, if we consider and agree that this is not necessary, and from the opposition today we have heard many times the obvious that it might be better to owe, increase this deficit, lower taxes, etc., avoid new excise duties, of course it is one option, but at this point it is significantly more risky and dangerous and this path could lead us to a Greek script faster. We need to be aware of that. I will therefore support the rebalancing of all the dilemmas already raised by the Zalokar Orazem Flower when it spoke on behalf of the Zares Group. We will talk about Greece, but the fact is that I do not imagine the isolation of Slovenia that would cost us if we decided to step out of a joint rescue project, not Greece, but the rescue of the euro. The resolution of the system, to which we joined voluntarily, we wanted to become and I think we have had enormous benefits and will still have them in a system based on a key principle of solidarity. At this point, one country is, for reasons that we all know well, the Greeks, especially because of the 14, 15, 16. etc., wages and lack of responsibility that we prove, but the black hole that was created there must not spread. If we allow this, we will not talk about the euro tomorrow, but again about the tactisation of financial, economic and, ultimately, political, national, etc. and Europe will be gone. I think Angela Merkel made that very clear and I think she shocked a lot of German citizens and a lot of Europeans. But if this project, this joint crisis management project and the financial collapse of Greece fail, I think this is the beginning of the end of the European Union. Not only in financial terms, but also in political, cultural terms. What would that mean for Europe? After my return to the 1930s. Some indicators, some symptoms are already present and are ready to become dominant at a time when the economy is essentially disintegrating as when the economy is falling apart. Then we get the scenes and the scenario that we met back in the last century. That is why I think it would be irresponsible to speculate and play with the intention of helping Greece or Europe or the euro, of course, within our own power, our own abilities, in such a way that we essentially owe ourselves on behalf. In practice, Greece is committed through some European countries. It's not about giving money out of our budget just like that. It is the fact that Slovenia, which has a significantly better rating than Greece, can lease credit under significantly better conditions, and this is the essence of the problem. Therefore, other important European countries have been identified, and if we did not participate in this, they would not only have caused themselves resentment, long-term resentment against other European countries, but probably the consequences, financial and economic consequences for Slovenia in the long term would be very, very unfavourable. That is why I think that when we talk about this balance, and when we talk about this assistance to Greece, one dose of sobriety and responsibility that I would expect from all the parties, whether they are in the coalition or the opposition. It is a European project and at the same time it is a national project. Because if we want to remain part of the euro and want the euro to be a stable currency tomorrow, I just don't see any other ways. Everything else is demagogy. We can go to the referendum, too. I mean, this theme is beautiful. We can start a fire within a week and the euro will burn, Greece will burn and the government will burn. It's beautiful. Then what? If I were in the position of the opposition, I'd think twice about it. If I were the opposition, what if we won the 2012 elections, would we not rather inherit a stable Slovenia, a stable euro, stable finances? Do we now want to cause a fire that will necessarily involve the next governments? No, no, I'm telling you, the opposition. [[advertising from the hall]] No, we'll talk about the terminals another time. Today, let me say this: I prefer to go back to the priorities that are urgent, but we have repeatedly stressed, in fact, that investment, public investment in public infrastructure, is one of the priorities that should be highlighted in the next budgets, that this is not true for all investments. There are some investments without which we can survive or even live better and, of course, we have in mind in particular those investments that have already begun, such as investments in armors, in Patrio, and which in fact mean some black hole in our finances, including our consciences. Because we don't really know why we're willing to give so many millions, 20, 25 million to maybe send those investments to Afghanistan tomorrow. Of course, it can be a political investment. However, it is certainly unnecessary from the point of view of our specific social interests. Therefore, consideration is needed. We advise the government to be self-critical enough on these issues and that, in all further moves, which I hope will not only be a sign of rebalancing but also a selective emphasis on these priorities, it has in mind these dilemmas. But with all these dilemmas, of course, there are other options, like supporting this balance, I can't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Rebalance, amending the budget should certainly be a serious topic, but given what we are reading in this document, of course this is not the case. However, there is some similarity between this 2010 budget change and between the law that will be discussed at the next Tuesday meeting, with which Slovenian taxpayers, who are materially poorer than Greek taxpayers, will only contribute slightly less than €400 million. Not one and no other document will solve anything, no problem, just put problems into some future. Sooner or later, of course, someone will also have to find solutions to the situation we are in if we are talking about a rebalancing and expect that after a year and a half this government will finally arrive with one consistent document. We've been expecting him for quite some time, and he's been announced for 2009. What was his name again? Programme, target-oriented budget or something like that, priorities, objectives, programming documents and so on. Finally, we got the budget, as we've been used to it all these years, only the address has changed and we found that the methodology and everything else is exactly the same. Today we are talking about a little less than €2 billion a year. Every year, to make it work normally, the country runs out of 2 billion. So it spends a little less than 2 billion more than it creates. How long can this take? Probably not for very long, but within about one term, a one-year state budget will be pissed off, to be simplified. This is the situation we've been in for the past two years. So what's going on with the rebalancing? Instead of doing everything to reduce expenditure and maximize revenue, there has been a subtle change, that now there are some less than 10 billion of these expenditure, but before that there were some more than 10 billion and that revenue is a little less than it used to be. But we're still at a gap between 8 billion and 10 billion, and in the times you mentioned today, many times, when you thought it was too much, it was overheating, the previous government overheated, it spent 8 billion. It is said that when this investment element could be substantially strengthened, it has not been strengthened, of course, but has been maintained within some normal and real frameworks. Now, in the second year, we are witnessing that this gap is somehow increasing and that there is no way to stop it. Today, we are on the side of some, on the government side, unfortunately this is the minister who was previously responsible for this overheating of the economy when he was Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and, in my opinion, he is very rude to say that the Government is responsible for this. It cannot be because the corporate and economic and population framework is set by the Central Bank and is responsible for what these frameworks are. If the situation at the time was such that they needed to be tightened, of course they should be tightened, but there was no one who would have done it at the right time, because it was happening at the time, we know, the concentration of ownership through managers' buyouts. All these hunters, who were somehow hidden from these institutions, successfully supported this process. That is to say, if what should have not been done at that time is not the responsibility of the previous government, the current government is responsible for failing to come to this national assembly after a year and a half with some coordinated, consistent package of short-term measures, medium-term and long-term measures, with a vision showing how and how the state budget will begin to deliver higher revenues and lower expenditure in this year and coming years. Apart from some talk about this, some theory that we've heard a lot here today, some graphs that don't mean anything to us and that don't make things any easier for us in any way, there was nothing concrete about it. The only concrete thing that happened after we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party in January the 3rd package of so-called measures, the fight against the crisis, the fight for new jobs, which was also addressed by this National Assembly, also adopted some decisions by the higher-a-vis Government, was that table with magnets; the state government light. This was the only concrete effect that has taken place on the basis of what we talked about today. And even when all the green magnets are there, the state in the country, that's what we've been talking about, it's not going to make any difference. Nothing at all, since some normative framework will be fulfilled theoretically, which will not give any effect in practice, which can only be given by concrete measures that speak of reducing the burdens of the economy, eliminating all unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic obstacles, freeing up the mechanisms that restrict the entrepreneurial initiative and, on the other hand, in a smart, appropriate way, in the long term to prepare a public administration rationalisation project so that it will become robust, lean for people to remain capable of it, and gradually coming from those services who unfortunately will no longer have room in this system. What's going on now? There is a process going on in the opposite direction, there are always some new jobs, some new agencies, some new offices that are not talking about some economic behaviour, about rationalisation, but talk about the fact that the multitude of functions will spread even more, that this control will be even smaller and that more people will be needed for the same amount of work. It's not a good policy, I think it's a wrong policy. To mention some specific cases that have been mentioned here today. What will be the contribution of the State's capital investment management agency, as is now the case in the law, nothing will be made except that a few people will be employed there. If there was no other more original solution, we have proposed that a solution should be found within the Directorate of Public Property at the Ministry of Finance, as some countries know such a solution, such as Finland and the same people who are already qualified, do. Because in this country you still have kept all the institutions – Kad, Court, in the framework of When you even set up another 3 additional, some PPU, DPU, I don't know what's alive. In short, a bunch of institutions that are not known what and how and in what way should they do what they are supposed to do and how they will allow a little more to flow into the state budget from this operation. During this period, except for the fact that we have increased the debt in all segments, we have already passed two additional guarantees laws for the Court, the first for 180 million euros, the second for 300 million euros. We will probably briefly consider the debt for the T6 Termoelectric plant in Šostjan, where the investment is worth about a billion 100 million, very little added value from the Slovenian economy will be in this project. But 1.1 billion, that's about 12 to 14% of the state budget. At a time when the Slovenian government says that it is necessary to tighten the belt for public servants, it does not refer to Greek civil servants, but rather, in the same balance, we give employees who have better status, material, labour, whatever you want a little less than 400 million. This is about as much as the Slovenian government wants to save at the expense of Slovenian public servants. I really don't understand this policy, for the first time it's not consistent, for the second time it's not happening in the same timeframes, at least we'd wait 6 months for you to agree with the social partners in Slovenia and then come up with a law on which solutions won't help, and not Greece to solve the problems it's gone into. These problems will only be put off because it is more than obvious that this crisis in Greece is being addressed by all the countries of the European Union except Greece itself. In order to save the euro with 0.5% of this aid, please, I think that no one in this room is cultivating such illusions, this aid is foreseen for €80 billion, slightly less than €400 million from Slovenia's title. I don't think it's any solidarity. I don't know how it can be about solidarity if someone who's poorer helps someone who's richer. Solidarity would be if there were some natural disasters or higher events in this country that could not be affected by that country and it is normal for the other countries to help in this matter in a financial, material or any other way. Today, we have not heard any concrete solution to how this government will avoid these scissors, to which it will prevent the further decline of gross domestic product, what you will do to start revenue in the state budget increasing. On the other hand, we have not heard how and how you intend to seriously cut into public consumption. These suggestions have been on the table for some time. It is absurd, therefore, that after a year and a half we have heard some call for cooperation after a written document has been in existence, and there has been no answer to it for a year and a half. It's also funny to listen, because obviously we don't speak the same language conceptually. One of the essential things that we have proposed, not recently, but already a year and a half ago, is that, in such a situation as today's expenditure of the wider sector of the country, it is necessary to limit it to a gross domestic product. Since it is illogical that our gross domestic product will be declining, we will have this expenditure at some nominal 10 billionth rate. So it's theoretically possible to sing anything that's created. I think it is normal for expenditure in such situations to be linked to what has been created and, of course, if this gross domestic product starts to grow, the situation is completely different. Then, of course, different measures and different decisions are needed, but as long as we have the drop we have, and given the fact that the expenditure of the wider sector in the year and a half has increased from just over 43% to almost 48%, it would be necessary to start at least 1% of the rate per year. I think that this is one of the key measures that should have been taken already a year and a half ago and would probably have had its effects today. In this context, of course, we have proposed that a very simple measure or a decision be taken to save EUR 100 per employee per month in the context of the rationalisation of state expenditure. Of course, not specifically for every employee, because there are different relationships, different circumstances, but cumulatively this means savings, which are not small at the annual level, but above all some guidance which speaks of the Government taking such a measure seriously to reduce public consumption. This expansion of the administrative apparatus should urgently be halted and this procurement agency, which is expected to have no iron effects. I will tell you 2 or 3 specific cases from the past, when tables, medical tables, remember, ordered centrally how long this process took and how long they were overvalued or overpaid during the intermediate stage of this procedure. As we will recall, the entire former LDS government failed to resolve this procurement throughout the mandate because the procedure was centralised. At the time when the prices for the same tables were compared to those performed by individual hospitals for 1 or 2 the difference was found to be up to 50%. Prices were obtained by those who purchased them individually. Second case from the road area, the Markovec tunnel at Koper. Remember what the prices were in the game until the procurement procedure was cancelled and for what money CPM will now make this tunnel. I'm pretty sure there won't be as many anexes as there was in the case of a shale tunnel. So, what's going to happen to the centralization of the orders? Nothing. Apart from the fact that influential lobbyists will access public procurement, all the other small ones will no longer be able to do so. This will undermine the value of public procurement, but not diminish. That's what's gonna happen. Instead, mechanisms should be put in place to ensure, on the one hand, the control, rationality, transparency and transparency of the procedures and individual'species' within these control mechanisms. Because even if this centralized agency happens, probably more than one and the same people who are doing these things now will be working on individual segments of it. Then you intend to set up a public real estate fund to which you intend to pool all this immovable property of the country. Then what happens? Will this role and process be anything more active than they are now? This is where more or less the same people will do it. More importantly, it would be important to put in place a concept by which you can manage it, because what happened to the NPU building to pay the private owner its lease through state resources will not prevent such use from any establishment of such or other agency or fund. It is important that the state decide whether the concept that was founded during the previous government and on which the building was also built for the entire police is said. Because in that case, the loan or leasing would also be repaid, but on behalf of the State and the State, it would remain the owner of this facility. This is probably a smarter concept, and there should be something to say about it and then work on it. Not to mention Falcon, for which there has been a year and a half looking for a solution to a problem that is relatively small in nature and which in a year and a half has taken about as much money as it takes to ensure that the school diet differs at the annual level. I think that by setting up some agencies, funds, jobs and that in some ways things are thoughtfully centralised, I don't think that this effect that wants to be pursued through this way will be. It would be much better to ensure proper decision-making than anything else. Something similar applies to this law, which was mentioned in relation to major state projects. And now there's gonna be a marriage that's gonna cancel all the long-term procedures or what? It's not a problem with the law. The problem is in all those sub-legislative acts, too many rules, I don't know, orders, regulations, instructions, interpretations, what else exists in different ministries, which prevent each other from operating normally. This needs to be done. These things need to be simplified, set out the rules of the game, achieve that procedures will not take place for 2, 3 months and that there will be no opinions for 2 to 3 months, thus all these things are resolved. There'd be a lot more to say. In conclusion, Mr Bogdan Čepič gave an example of the problem of employment in the municipalities and that this also helps to increase the number of employees in the state administration and mentioned two cases: the Municipality of Maribor and Postojno. First, I don't know, I don't know the data, but I do know the data for the last one, and I have to say that he didn't pick up the best case because he said that the number of employees had increased by 8. In 2002, 30 people were employed in the Municipality of Postojna, in 2006 38 people, in 2010 37 people. The budget amounted to just over €6 million in 2002, some less than €12 million in 2006 and 18 and a half million last year and 23 million euros this year. Investment funds amounted to €200,000 in 2002, €6 million in €700,000 in 2006, €14 million in 2010. Thus, in 2002 20% of the budget was budgeted and now 60%. Thus, EUR 200 000 fell on the employee in 2002 and now it is EUR 650 000. That's real and reliable data. By comparison, I looked online, and this technology is excellent, the municipality of Isolo. About the same realization, last year the Postojna 18 million and a half realized, Izola 18.1 million, the Municipality of Postojna has spent just less than a million euros on wages and the municipality of Izola just over 2 million euros. These are comparative data. This is how the government should look at public consumption. However, because he sees as Mr Bogdan Chapič does, of course, nothing can happen and everything is happening in the wrong direction. This balance cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar. One moment, Mr. Likar. Procedurally, do you want Mr. Tanko? Please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Government also participates in the work of the National Assembly. The government wrote about who will participate in the National Assembly, wrote all the ministers, and I don't think the five ministers came to this meeting of the National Assembly at all. But at this time, as we are discussing now after the last government debater almost five hours, none of the government has commented on any particulars. At that time, the Minister of Finance has read half of the special edition of Youth, but there is no argument or confrontation to argue the opinion, position or anything at that time. In short, I would like to point out that, Mr President of the National Assembly, the work of the National Assembly is going in a strange way. And if the budget rebalancing is a key crisis document, then I expect the key minister, and this is the Minister of Finance, to respond to these comments or initiatives that come from Members on the one hand or on the other. There's no response. And here we are obviously more or less, or there are government representatives just to pass the time, to pass the matter by and then everything runs out in an unusual, special way. I propose that the honourable President of the National Assembly invite the Government to respond to and comment on the allegations, or it is a shame that Members discuss these matters, so that we can suggest that we speak our thoughts. The announcement of the time was, and it will probably go empty because an important part of the coalition does not respond to this debate, things are, and unfortunately the government does not smell this matter. I would like to ask that on the basis of "checking", which is done, someone from the government, but above all, I think the Minister of Finance should comment on these matters. After five and a half hours, there must have been a lot of people who deserve the attention of the Government, comment, explanation, explanation, correction of the statement and so on. In short, it's probably a lot during this period. But if all that is true is what we say, then it is necessary to withdraw the budget from the procedure, dear Minister, because our claims hold and there are no objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u70	Dear Mr. Tanko, you know my answer, but I will repeat it to you. The government is present, and it will answer when it wants it and the government representatives will speak. By the way, what some of them have said before, and when they assess that something needs to be explained, supplemented, or insulted, they will do so. Of course, I am this last sentence of yours, if all this is true, what you said should we withdraw the budgets, and all the rest I put in my arms. Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers and other representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The opening address of the President of the Government was quite encouraging when he suggested that we come together in the situation we are in. However, in its further implementation, Minister Gaspari has stated that, with such proposals as the opposition proposes, we will never come together. I think that's too bad. It would be useful for all of us, for citizens and citizens, if, at some point, we were to be united on key topics. Such a topic is, for example, a budget that is a thank-you topic, because, in all or most of what we say, it can also affect the budget. The draft budget, in this case the proposal for a budget rebalancing, is, as it is said, one of the most important, if not the most important document discussed in the National Assembly. The question is: What will be the reward after nearly 15 hours of debate on this proposal for a rebalancing? According to experience, this time will be thrown away, for in the debate it was not really perceived that we could come together. This is not a guarantee, it is a mere conclusion and exercise is likely to be repeated in the next draft budget or budget rebalancing. I will not operate in detail with numbers because there was much of this already said, but I also stopped at the NRP, with one of the numbers - EUR 500 in 2000 for investments, such as a concrete investment for Godovic, which is worth 3 million 510 thousand. There are cases like this, I counted them, 200, maybe I missed one. We probably all agree that these 500 euros are expected to be implemented in 2010 in all 200 cases or more. For example, in 2011, 10 000 is foreseen, in 2012 500 000, and in 2013 the remaining 3 million euros are expected. The need for the 2010 budget rebalancing also clearly shows that the government was listed at the time the 2010 budget was adopted last November, at least as regards the better economic financial situation. Thus, already in the context of the 2010 draft budget in the SDS, I think that, together with the Slovenian People's Party, we have also proposed a reduction on the expenditure side, not by cutting off investment funds, but in particular by proposing a reduction in current expenditure. The proposal for a rebalancing that we have before us today does just that, but does not foresee a reduction in the costs of current consumption, but the government has gone to reducing investment. I am convinced that if our proposal, at the time of adoption of the 2010 budget, might at least partially follow, the situation would probably be different now and perhaps easier. What this will mean on the longer term, on the long run I do not even hope to find out, of course it will show time, but it considers itself that now is not the time to experiment, but it is necessary to act quickly and effectively. It is necessary to reduce or limit the growth of current expenditure and to reduce the public financial deficit. Instead, the government will raise excise duties on energy consumers, it says, on petrol and electricity, which will further affect the situation of citizens and citizens. Somehow I'd still understand this move if the data hadn't been pointing the other way around. With the increase in excise duties on energy consumers in the state treasury, less money, of course gasoline and the rest that falls to the payment of excise duty, we are forced to buy, says the citizens, who live here. All the others, which could be due to cheaper energy sources, I think especially to carriers, but rather our gas services are long- and wide-ranging. Thus, the Government reduces transport and transport infrastructure expenditure by 168 million euros, to pay for investments in health 49 million euros, to reduce resources in defence, to the right means of protection and rescue, and to the right of citizens we ask ourselves whether we are the only ones who can be added or helped to fill the state treasury. In addition, assistance to Greece has already been mentioned today. The Loan Act or the aid to Greece of almost EUR 400 million, whose funds would still be needed for our needs, is being incorporated into the parliamentary procedure. With the reduction of investments, we will witness the continuing stagnation of the Slovenian economy, as the Government is reducing or delaying investments in the regularity of the circus EUR 450 million, in particular as stated in road infrastructure, health and defence. The President of the Government has identified the budget balance as one of the measures to revitalise economic growth. It's hard to imagine that in times of crisis, you spend endlessly, but you don't create the conditions for new investments, which are the generator of economic development. However, the balance is here and now I am sure that it will be adopted as proposed and likely, at least after the experience and after the discussion of our proposals, you will not accept it. That way the caravan will go on and the dogs will bark, but I wonder when it'll be like this. I believe that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is weak so that it can be better prepared and, of course, I will not support it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much, respectable choir. Let me repeat from the introduction. Rebalance reduces wages and contributions by 18 million and reduces expenditure on goods and services by 71 million euros to 5% below those in 2008. Investments are actually falling by €390 million and a little bit more later. Expenditure on interest is falling by EUR 30 million under the forecast, funds for the transfer of the Slovenian Pension and Disability Insurance Institute by EUR 25 million under the forecast, and payments to the European budget are falling by EUR 25 million in line with what is expected. Despite the decline in investments from planned investments, and this is most painful, I agree with my colleague Likar, for €390 million, investments after the 2010 rebalancing are still 300 million higher than they were in 2008 and higher than they were in 2009. However, they also mention the continuation of Keynesian promotion of economic growth, but at a lower level than planned and deficits, which will signal that we are in control of public financial imbalances. If I wanted to respond to previous discussions, I think it was an important one when you compared the inflows of excise duties. These inflows were much higher, 16% higher than in 2009 than in 2008 or 200 million euros. You have fully compensated for the cancellation of the tax on paid salaries. So the last war took us 200 million euros and we brought back excise duties, but they were smaller than planned because traffic fell during the crisis. So these are the information that I would add to the High Council. But I'm going to do it occasionally, not every time, because somehow, as you might say, there's got to be some kind atmosphere between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the proposal for a general part of the balance sheet? I'm asking you to sign up. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. When we start talking about these economic indicators, about trends, the President of the Government always remains very, very inconclusive. However, if the Government were serious, if it were to stand behind what it is saying, then it would put these comparisons and trends in macroeconomic matters, so that they would know in advance where the matter is going. I think it would be very correct for these international comparisons to be compared at relative level with other economies in order to be appropriate. As I see, the Government is almost consistently avoiding these international comparisons in its documents, so that we can talk more about some partial solutions, levers and so on and also about criteria. The fact is that, in fact, all the analytical institutions that we have in the country, all domestically, even foreign ones, which we can achieve, is also the European Commission, including the VCD, when monitoring the performance, efficiency of economies, show that Slovenia travels faster down than comparable countries, including those from the eastern part that came into the European Union. However, it is difficult for the Government to hear any proposals for action here, even more difficult to accept, to summarize these proposals, to integrate them into its mechanisms and thus to do something that would certainly improve macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions. For on this microlevel, the success of the national economy is also on the basis of growing results for individual economic operators, and if we do not do enough or too little for these smaller things in the field of tax relief, then there is no synergy. Today, when we discussed or when the Government presented the 2010 state budget rebalancing, I would expect the President of the Government to come here with a demonstration board and explain these synergies to us, as he does with a lot of visitors when he goes to individual companies. But it wasn't. Obviously, it is not expected that any of these measures, which are covered in the balance, will increase the scope, improve the conditions and yield some better results. But I would also like to draw attention to one matter that actually seems crucial to me. One of the basic assumptions for the preparation of budgets for 2009-2010 was the fiscal rule. Here we have heard a lot of discussions about the fiscal rule or the rule of up-to-date cost-sharing. This fiscal rule applied by the Government is, in my opinion, appropriate when GDP is growing when the scale of the economy is growing when the state is making progress. At that time, I think it makes sense for us to shift at some nominal level to say 10.5 billion or 8.5 billion euros in government budget expenditure. However, where trends are inverse, respected colleagues in the Government, it is said that when the revenue of the budget falls, but this fiscal rule is not right because it causes a deficit in public finances because it requires State indebtedness because it does not contribute to savings and rationalisations, because there is no limit and in cases where the state is in a situation after the end of 2008, this would be the case in 2009-2010, a much more appropriate fiscal rule that we have proposed in the opposition. This means linking the expenditure of the state budget to the result of the economy in this relative sense. This is at 46, 43, 44% of GDP, and in this way they would adapt all costs to the functioning of the country. What we proposed was rejected. I'm afraid we can figure that out now. Explanations, if you look back, and I think they are also problematic, because those economic experts that you have advocated that the correct fiscal rule is what the Government has proposed, you have now obtained a result at the table, in the form of accelerated borrowings, both at the annual level and in a broader context. Practically not only what Cernač said is a permanent gap in the budget of €2 billion, regardless of what the government is doing now. Public debt is also increasing. Practically every 2 months for a billion euros. At that time, we have come almost only with an increase in public debt in this part to around 80, 90% of the annual budget. I think we're in debt for about 8 billion euros. This shows that the measures taken by the Government proposed by the Government are not appropriate. The fiscal rule by replacing nominal costs, which are significantly higher than budget revenues, has enabled the Government to have relatively large prosperity, waste, no control, no control and so-called fiscal rule not to lead to savings, because it is not linked to the performance of the business, but allows luxury, it is said to be unrestrained, uncontrolled use. I think that, Madam Minister, the Government should think hard about whether it is a fundamental assumption, it is a real fiscal rule with a limited cost of EUR 10 and a half billion, but now you have reduced it to just under EUR 10 billion, right or wrong. I don't think so. It would be proper to lay down a different rule and adjust the spending of the country to the extent of the national economy. You've avoided it, and because it's not the case, the costs are running smoothly. There was also a lot of talk about this centralised procurement agency. I think that this is a completely wrong measure, because if this happens in this way, we will only get more special solutions than Trraffic design and similar stories, because these matters are not related to any responsibility and will have to be redesigned differently. Unfortunately, the victims of this budget are virtually all systems, all subsystems, and much more should also be built in communication with all social partners. Since the government is not able to tackle these costs, work and only take unilateral measures, and this will cause additional problems, additional obstacles if these anticipated riots are announced for the autumn by trade unions, then we can count or expect only further erosion in economic growth. Each lost day means some part of less efficiency if the sentence, productivity does not increase if the sentence, other things do not go forward and so on. In short, problems are predicted on their own. It would therefore be appropriate to put in place other mechanisms in this budget rebalancing, also to set different priorities in order to maintain the investment level in those sectors that would lead the state economy to a higher level and so on. In short, key issues, those that are extremely important from a national point of view, are also disappearing in this budget. Since this balance is so, because it is not consistent, it cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing? Please, Mr. Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u77	I just want an answer from the Minister of Finance. Why is it unacceptable for the Government to link the expenditure of the wider sector to a gross domestic product? Why is it unacceptable that we bind the expenditure in a certain percentage and that we also place a 1 % per year reduction dynamic in advance? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Please, Minister. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much for the relevant question. It's a question of how to set a fiscal rule. One possibility is to put it in line with the deficit, which is, in fact, implicit inclusion under the Stability Pact, a real deficit that we target below 3% of gross domestic product. I agree with Mr Tank that the rule we have set is fixed at some level. During the period of the decline in public finances, the deficit, as well as the share of public consumption in gross domestic product, may also pose a risk and hence the current balance. The result of this rebalancing will be a reduction in the fiscal rule and adjusted and ultimately targeted first by lower deficits or maintenance of deficits, which we estimate are normally accepted by capital markets by maintaining fiscal expansion in these limited capacities and also by maintaining a certain share of public consumption in gross domestic product. Our problem is also the share of public finances. It has been shown that the reform in 2006 has led to a decline in these revenues, but also a very likely increase in the cyclicality of these revenues, which means that improvements will also lead to an increase in overflows. This will result in sufficient volatility in the share of gross domestic product. The growth of gross domestic product then reduces the share of expenditure in the fiscal rule and increases the share of revenue. Then balance is established. So now we are targeting a very simple limit that we give to the ministries as an upper limit and in this way we create savings that ministries down the line optimize and then it goes to individual institutions. We are still setting this up in a way that is said to promote economic growth, not only through the most qualitative factors that promote technological development, new entrepreneurship and increased competitiveness, but also entirely Kenyan, is said to be through investments that have a multiple effect on economic growth, but within the scope of the possibility. Targeting the share, however, leads to an even greater delay in the decisions, it is said that it is only in time that we can determine whether or not we can follow it. However, this can be one of the indicators of the release of market forces in the economy, so it is also relevant. It is said that if the share of public spending went up over 50% or increased strongly, then initiatives or incentives may also occur to manage where the selection of individual projects is no longer exposed to market conditions, what people need and what not, what the market needs and what not, and in which case inefficient management may occur. So this goal is undoubtedly relevant, but in such times it is even more difficult to trace. I think we have no choice but to follow the combination of fiscal rules as ceilings and then adjust them to the public financial tide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We've got two reports. I'm just gonna ask for an application. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u81	Thanks for the answer. However, this rule of yours has proved to be ineffective, for your expenses are rising. Over the past 2 years, from just over 8 billion to over 10 billion euros. Now you've managed to get them under €10 billion in some artificial way. It is said that this rule is not effective in these situations. However, I did not get a substantive answer to why the content of this model is not acceptable. I'm afraid I didn't get that answer. Because if in a situation where the problem is created, you don't tie the consumption to what you created, you come into a spiral from which there's no way out. That's why I'm taking this opportunity, and I'm asking you for another answer. Earlier, because Mr Čepič challenged me, I said about the case of 2 municipalities, but I will not now appoint them again so that I do not make advertising one or the other. In one congregation, there are twice as many employees as in the other, and they both create or have the same budget, a circus of 18 million euros. Where twice as many employees are made at the investment part of 6.6 million, a third of the budget is said, and in the second, where twice as many employees are made 10.8 million out of 18 million in investments, which means that per capita is a 100 % difference. It is said that they pay for wages in this other congregation once again on the same scale of the budget. Why isn't the government doing this systemically? Not only at local level, but at country level.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Minister. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The questions were two. The fact is, we went on a fiscal expansion last year. Expansion was carried out with several objectives, developmental conversion, retention of the minimum standard of those most affected by the crisis and the classical Kenyan fiscal expansion. We are now reducing this expansion, but we have not yet fully concluded that we would not quickly cool down the economy. We've still got some bright spots. One of them is undoubtedly a fall in the value of the euro on the global market, which will stimulate or already promote competitiveness and will be in the autumn months, for about 6 months, this drug is, as we say, a time delay when it will affect the accelerated economic growth of the export part of the European economy and that of the one competing as a substitute in the European market, the 500 millionth market. The combination of different approaches to fiscal rule is inevitable. I agree that one of these approaches can undoubtedly also target the share of public spending in GDP at 42% or 40%. There is no doubt that this share will increase slightly during the period of decline and can then be maintained during the period of growth. The second question is the question of the independence of the municipalities in their operations. Because the municipalities are independent. We have a Budget Authority in the Ministry. This does not have the right to monitor the budgetary expenditure of the municipalities. They're being monitored by the Court of Auditors. Of course, it will have to behave within the framework prescribed by the law and within the means to which it belongs, according to the budget and in accordance with the legal obligations. The municipalities are also very successful in drawing on European funds. In this context, as well as in the acquisition of the funds of the integrated budget as part of the co-investment of the Slovenian State. There's a very wide picture here. We have very successful and dynamic congregations and slightly less successful and less dynamic congregations. Then we have municipalities that, in their policies, strongly rely on promoting the growth of human capital, education, kindergartens, again others that promote more investment activity, infrastructure activity, municipal governance. This is a considerable variety in Slovenia. I wouldn't say which are very dynamic. We do know, however, that some have created large-scale movement infrastructures and others in the development of education. Here is also the question of certain concessions obtained by municipalities, either because of energy facilities or because of gambling facilities. Here, too, the possibilities for some developmental activity of the congregations are quite different from where they do not exist. We could then present this with some relevant material and open the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u84	Who answered first? Mr. Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u85	Just for a little while, so there's no misunderstanding. I only mentioned this as an example. Through this example, I have talked about this, it is not true that there can be no regulation of this area through legislation, on economy, rationality and on proper savings, because if you linearly save everything by 10%, you will, in my opinion, do bad for those who are good, who are doing great, because this linear measure will achieve everything. For this reason, a measure of productivity should also be established in the public administration, which is why I have given you this case, which tells you that it is irrational, absurd, at odds with every logic, and so in many state institutions that people are unevenly burdened and paid equally. That's what I'm talking about. We have a middle where twice as many people do less and you have to go to the public administration if you want to get this administration to be rationalised. That was the question, because I am already speaking, using the presence of the Minister for the Environment, that the problem of the installation of infrastructure facilities and the associated dynamics of investment are the problem. What will be done to strengthen and relax this dynamic?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u87	Dear Mr President, honourable Members! You probably know the news that we have prepared for this assembly at the last meeting of the Government of the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Meaning into the Space and I think it will be with you very soon and will then be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it again? Please, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, with this comment about defending the government's fiscal rule, I'm sure you haven't convinced me. As the use of this instrument in the way it is implemented in 2010, it certainly leaves difficult remedial consequences in the State budget. It is also difficult to correct the consequences because additional measures such as the increase in excise duties, including energy, are being taken. If we increase the excise duty by 12 or 14 times in electricity, we also reach into structures that live under socially more difficult conditions. It is said that the Government has used a linear measure, which is not a choice that makes everything equally closed and then, to a large extent, destroys everything that we have already adopted in this mandate as regards, say, the minimum wage provision and so on. Even with these compensations in the grant policy and so on, for this measure and for these groups you do not provide for any replacement. This is one thing and I want a very clear answer here. The other thing is that it is one of the young people, and I think it must be an economist, a young Member of the Social Democrats. Mr Frangež explained that Slovenia is so good that it can also help countries in difficulty – Greece. I wonder if Slovenia is actually so good that it can help Greece? If we are not able to provide a few million euros for the student diet and we have taken and reduced rights in the student diet. Is Slovenia a country capable of regulating the social situation in Greece also for those layers that are significantly richer than in the Republic of Slovenia? Because this law to help the Hellenic Republic did not give any social adjustment, no social criterion, applies generally and for all, while we have a group of students cut off free or subsidized student diets. This is an important extra blow for families and students. At the same time, the situation with regard to scholarship policy and child allowances is changing and so on. This is an important intervention in the social field. I would like to know how you are commenting on this, because you have not included yourself in the debate and this statement by Mr Frangež. There's one more thing I'd like to find out. When we had 3% more economic growth in the previous term than the average of the European Union and we were catching up to the European Union, you expressed great dissatisfaction and said that Slovenia could be led better. We are now 3% or more behind the European Union average in 2009-2010. All this difference, all this enormous economic downturn that has been taking place in Slovenia for the sixth quarter of a row, probably does not provide any good conditions for continuation. The only thing that feels during this period when economic efficiency and economic growth have turned and is one for, it is said to be inverse that the optimism of the President of the Government has grown enormously. The decline in economic growth is greater, and the President of the Government is more optimistic when he explains what the impact of this work will be. I'd like to know how you explain this connection, such a relation of comments, an explanation by the Prime Minister. Worse is economic growth, more optimism, better economic growth, more pessimism. Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u90	You want to discuss [[...]] Please, sir. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have three questions. The first concerns excise policy. This will continue to be discussed in the High Council. The excise policy does not directly concern labour costs, does not directly put pressure on unemployment and is mainly distributed by those products that are harmful to health or products where there will be no significant shifts in consumption and thus the structure of consumption will be retained to the same extent. At the same time, the lifts are relatively small and adapted to the part of the funds that we expected by raising the CO2 tax. Since this has not happened, we have proposed the greatest possible approximation and will put it to the debate of this assembly. In this way, we are reducing the cyclicality of public financial flows and allowing for a slightly greater stability of public finances. The second issue was the financing of Greece in relation to social expenditure. The foundations of the social state remain, the government remains committed to them. Funding or assistance to Greece comes from the B balance sheet, does not compete with expenditure intended to cover the protection of the socially weak layers, including scholarships and the like. In fact, we lend Greece our credibility, and then we charge this credit for credibility on the capital market properly, so that the difference in the A balance sheet in interest rates will be obtained. Macroeconomically, this is not going to be a lot of money, but some will. However, the third question was about optimism. Optimism stems from the success of the development, export and development-related conversion to a relatively high level of industrial production in relation to a comparable last March level. Data processing shows an increase since September, with the trend of return as early as 2008. Here are the reasons for optimism. Of course, we also have problems, problems are most painful in the construction and real estate sectors. During the high-conjuncturing period, this has been inadequately structured and is now relatively difficult to transfer to other markets through export diplomacy or diplomacy, which is trying to achieve an export redirection of this sector. I think we'll still be able to make some moves. There is also a modernisation of the rail network ahead of us and a good part of the European resources that we still have at our disposal, we intend to devote some work to this part of the investment, and there will be some work here as well. Of course, it will take some time before proper building permits are obtained, and this construction sector is now suffering and we have had very poor results in gross domestic product for two quarters. If you are looking at processing activities, their added value has increased. However, data processing shows an even faster growth in activity, which will then be shown in a relatively favourable level in the third and fourth quarters of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u93	Thank you. It is good that we can talk in peace and find out something else that we are not talking about. Today, when we are talking about a rebalancing to help ourselves and even Europe get out of the crisis, today, as far as I am aware, the Government has come up with a proposal to adopt another law on the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for certain funds following the urgent procedure at the regular meeting. From here on out, I don't know because I just heard it when I listened to colleges with which an institution will help Europe and abroad again, as far as I understand correctly, but Slovenia doesn't. But I pulled a parallel. When the State of the Republic of Slovenia gave guarantees and guarantees to companies and individuals, it happened that applications for this guarantee were suddenly made at a higher level than expected by the State. While the bank is finely dispossessed and says, "50% we're going to put it in the country because it's the one who gave the guarantee." Now I am interested in all of these efforts, which, once again, I say that you have certainly invested them yourself, which we are investing, but it is one new guarantee law that the state will give to someone for something, and this guarantee always means that if someone does not pay for it, it must be paid by the state, or it must be taken into account in all this when we cleave the numbers into very precise decimal commas. What can be the consequences of this? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u94	Would you like a word, sir? Please, Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u95	Thank you. Very briefly. In the case of guarantees under a guarantee scheme governing the guarantee between banks and undertakings, it is explicitly laid down that such guarantees are granted only to undertakings not in difficulty, otherwise they should be declared through a state aid scheme. If any bank has managed to place any of these companies in a guarantee scheme, then there will be a rather complicated justice to clarify whether the state can guarantee this or not under this scheme. I don't think he can. However, it is to be expected that we have given quite a few companies c because we have decided in Parliament that we will also be able to compete with companies C in this scheme, that we will have to spend some 40 million euros in the B-balance sheet budget at the end when the whole project is completed. Otherwise, it would have been a lot less. However, we have saved quite a few jobs and several companies that have been on the border have been able to finance themselves through this and are already looking for new markets or have already received new markets, so I have quite a few data here. The second part of the issue of the financial stability mechanism of the European Union of EUR 440 billion, to which we attach another half of the added AMF funds and another 60 billion from the European Union budget, together with EUR 700 billion, then we approach as owners of the company that will draw on it, we say, Slovenia, together with the other euro Member States, the discussion will continue for a long and wide period of time when we discuss it. Slovenia accounts for 0.4711%, says a poor half of the company. The company won't have much capital. In the end, 30 million of our assets are projected, including 146 thousand. But it will draw money on the capital market. It will be drained by the ratings given by the most developed countries in the euro area, says triple A at the lowest possible interest rate and will be sent to countries in difficulty, even if we find ourselves in such problems as the lender at the last level. In this case, the role played elsewhere by the central banks will play. The concept of the European Central Bank is not such as to play this role, so we had to establish an additional mechanism. Anyone who asks for this assistance will have to meet the very strict conditions of savings and also the possibility of creating an appropriate policy of credibility by means of this savings and then returning the funds and making himself normally in debt on the credit market. It's not expected to happen. But the discussion will continue for a long and wide period of time when the marriage is under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u97	Thanks for the answer. I understand much more now, but I am still interested in how much share the State of the Republic of Slovenia should then make a guarantee for this new thing that you have just talked about? How much, how much money?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u98	Of course, Mr. Secretary. But I think this is the subject of a law that will be held in regular session. But I don't mind, it's conceptually connected to everything possible, if you'd like to answer, Mr. Minister. It's on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u99	If all the guarantees had been used, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u100	the following sittings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u101	Then around €2 billion and €80 million or €73 million is maximum, which we can guarantee. However, there is little chance that all the guarantees will be cashed out, that someone will ask for all 700 million and, of course, even when and if it does, then there will be a return, not a refund. The guarantees, the loans will draw on this company, we will not draw on them, we will only guarantee in the back that this company, which is established in Luxembourg, can work and will also work as our last-level creditor. It means that Slovenia will no longer have a problem obtaining long-term resources if this problem arises and it will be able to take time to remedy its situation if such recovery is ever necessary. It's called a credit card at the last level.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate has repeatedly raised the issue of over-expenditure. This is said to be a debate on this government fiscal rule, which has irreplaceable costs or limits at a high level. When we discussed it earlier [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u104	Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u105	Yes, of course I will. I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u106	If you don't, I'll give you the time of the task force. Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u107	I'll make it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u108	You know we're very strict here. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u109	I'll design it because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u111	I'll explain, and then I'll make a proposal. I do not think it is appropriate that you interfere within these three minutes with the drafting of a proposal for a procedural question. Here more or less to be understood from your conclusion that this fiscal rule applied by the Government in the 2009 and 2010 budgets is appropriate for periods when we have economic growth, because it shows a certain relationship or shows that the Government is prepared to save when the country is doing well. We are now in a situation that is reversed because the government has set this fiscal rule too high, which means that the government is allowing for overexpenditure of the state budget. This is said to make it possible to over-expenditure the State's ability to generate revenue, and this directly requires an increase in taxes on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the State's debt to current operations. I want to know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u112	Procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u113	I want to know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u114	Procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u115	Of course, I wonder if I would suggest to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider whether we would not change this fiscal rule for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u116	Mr. Tanko, this isn't [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u117	balance [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u118	Procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u119	Of course it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u120	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u121	I propose that the President of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, consider [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u122	Excuse me, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u123	/ turn off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u124	I have to warn you, he's not pulling the president of the National Nostrils Council. The procedural proposal shall be forwarded to the President of the National Assembly concerning the application of the Rules of Procedure to decide on various matters. Procedural proposal cannot be addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, your discussion was substantive, in no way related to the Rules of Procedure and please adhere to this rule. In fact, you should be deducted from the Group of Members. The debate, Tinker Bell. Procedural Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Today we have witnessed, regardless of how we deal with the balance, that there was a relatively large abstinence on the government's side. The issues related to this general work are quite a few. For this reason, the honourable President of the National Assembly would suggest that, given that we are scheduled to have an interruption on time today at 20.00 to ensure the presence of all ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the continuation of this item on Tuesday at 9 p.m. In particular, the presence of the Minister of Transport, to whom I wanted to raise some questions about what we are reading in this budget balance, would be desirable. I don't think I'd get the right answers from anyone who's here because it's a matter of resources they don't cover. For this reason, my procedural proposal is to ensure the presence of those designated for consideration at this agenda item next Tuesday at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. To deal with this item, all members of the Government and State secretaries are invited to the agenda, but I do not have the business opportunities to oblige the members of the Government to be here. However, I expect, as usual, that several ministers are present in the debate on amendments. That's what we can all expect. Anyone else wants to discuss the proposal for a budget rebalancing? For the general part. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. So personally address the President of the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly, now I wonder whether the meeting will last until 8 p.m., as foretold, until 20 p.m., or will we work longer? Because in a reminder of the meeting of the National Assembly, you wrote that the meeting would be suspended at 8 p.m. Now I find that somehow you have no desire to interrupt this session. I ask the President of the National Assembly, how will the meeting proceed?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-02-SDZ5-Izredna-26.ana.u128	Thank you very much. In accordance with the general rules of the United Nations, the hour stopped at 8:00, and when the meeting is concluded, I will tell you what time it is. Anyone else want to discuss the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing? Since Dr. Vinko Gorenak wants to discuss this further, I conclude or interrupt the meeting, I interrupt the discussion on the proposal for the 2010 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia and we will continue the debate on Tuesday, 6. Seven. 2010 at 9 p.m. I also interrupt the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The time is 20.03 and 23 seconds. Thank you very much. The session was suspended by 2. JULY 2010 AT 20.03.)
