ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Renata Brunskole, Bogdan Barovic, Villa Rezman, Dr. Peter Verlič, mag. Branko Grimes, Janez Janša, mag. Andrej Vizjak by 12 o'clock and Jože Tanko from 4.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Declaration on the Western Balkans. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dragoljubi Benčina, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans confirming our foreign policy towards the Western Balkans. The Declaration provides a framework for guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Western Balkans adopted by the Government on 8 July this year, which the Committee on Foreign Policy took note of on 14 April. The guidelines provide a tool for ministries and government services, and we propose to the National Assembly to adopt a declaration that will at a symbolic level confirm the Republic of Slovenia's commitment to the cooperation, assistance and development of the Western Balkans region. The proposal for a declaration notes that the Western Balkans is a priority region for the Republic of Slovenia in relation to strategic foreign policy documents and the orientations of the Slovenian economy. The Republic of Slovenia supports the approximation and integration of the Western Balkan countries into Euro-Atlantic links, with the aim of creating an area of permanent security and development throughout the region. Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia will strive to strengthen cooperation and integration with and between countries in the region in all areas of operation. In the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans, Slovenia is committed to strengthening relations with all the countries of the Western Balkans and to deepen regional cooperation between them, with a view to creating such forms of creative cooperation and mutual assistance. Slovenia will endeavour to bring all Western Balkan countries together as quickly and as effectively as possible in all areas, political, security, transport, economic, energy, telecommunications, agriculture, health, social cohesion, the environment and all others, with a view to enabling the free movement of people, goods, services, capital and, in particular, knowledge throughout the region. We have drawn up a proposal for a declaration with the idea that it would be as current as possible and that it would also allow for the continued active policy of the Republic of Slovenia towards this area. Therefore, the declaration of a general nature or such as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide. The contents of both documents, guidelines and declarations are also adapted to the fact and our desire that both documents are of a public nature. We believe that the Republic of Slovenia, by adopting both documents, must also consolidate its activities and efforts at formal level in relation to the Western Balkans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Janji Klasinc to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-worker! At its 40th meeting, on 1 July 2010, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans. Representatives of the proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of State, also took part in the meeting of the Committee. We have taken the opinion and comments of the Legislative and Legal Service into account in the Committee's consideration, and we have taken note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs, the opinion of the Council of State and the views of the Government on the opinion of the Council of State. In the supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposer, Minister of Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar, presented the proposal for a declaration in more detail and the representative of the State Council, Mr Vincenc Otoničar, President of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs, and the positive opinion of the Council of State. The debate followed, in which Members welcomed the proposal for a declaration, expressed their support and advocated the continuation of Slovenia's strengthened role in politics towards the Western Balkans. We have raised the issue of the importance of the term "Western Balkans". There was a different understanding of the term in geographical and political terms, particularly in terms of whether the Western Balkans also covers the Republic of Croatia. The question of defining a more specific attitude towards Kosovo was raised, and we agreed that Slovenia has regained the reputation of an active country in the Western Balkans in recent months because of the new policy. We considered that developments in the region should be monitored and responded to and properly adapted to individual events. We have also raised the issue of the safety and management of accidents and the uniformity of standards. We advocated the continuation of the Brdo process and agreed that special efforts should be made to strengthen cooperation in the economic field, and called on the Government to address the issue of the stronger economic role of Slovenia and the opening of investment opportunities. The panellists expressed their support for efforts to cooperate in all areas and for a comprehensive approach to the preparation of documents with the participation of all competent authorities. We have also advocated a more active role for Slovenia in leadership positions in various international structures in the region. The Committee adopted its amendments to the preamble to the title, to the first paragraph of the introduction, to the fourth paragraph of the introduction, to point 3, to point 7 and to points 9 and 10. Finally, the Committee voted on all parts of the proposal for a declaration together and adopted them and proposed that this item be placed on the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u6	Good morning! Thank you for your word. The proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans should have been considered in the National Assembly three months ago, but coalition parties themselves have proposed the withdrawal of the Foreign Policy Committee's meetings and, consequently, plenary meetings. In the text of the declaration, the Legislative and Legal Service identified a series of inconsistencies from a constitutional and legislative and technical point of view and the amendments and amendments already mentioned by the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy were necessary. This shows, of course, the inconsistency of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which cannot draw up a short text of the declaration without having to interfere with the amendments and corrections in almost every other paragraph. How, then, can we expect from this government what is more difficult in the field of foreign policy and economy, when there are so many problems and problems in declarations that have very short texts and are of general nature? And how can we believe, after these cramps and difficulties in preparing the declaration, that Slovenia will really play an active role in the Western Balkans? Before sending the text of the declaration to Parliament, the Government adopted guidelines for the operation of Slovenia to the Western Balkans. There were no major debates on these guidelines in the public, but there was enough to hear the voice of the professional public. For these guidelines, the professional public said that they were full of phrases, generalised, unconstant and thoughtless. The guidelines and the declaration itself are late for a decade or more. At the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, Minister Žbogar said that the declaration was an upgrade to the guidelines. Let us therefore ask what kind of upgrade a declaration can be, but if it is based on the fragmented guidelines that the professional public has torn apart. We can rightly fear that this declaration will also experience the fate of the Declaration on the Northern Adriatic and any other declarations that we have accepted in the National Assembly, i.e. dust and oblivion. Unfortunately, this declaration does not mention the Slovenians who have remained in some Western Balkan countries since the break-up of Yugoslavia and to which this declaration also applies. However, the Slovenian diaspora in the Western Balkan countries could be a bridge or link between the country where they live and Slovenia. Given how the guidelines have been followed and how the government has tortured itself with this declaration, in the SDS we have the feeling that the guidelines and the declaration on the Western Balkans are necessarily evil for this government, that something must be written so that the traffic light is green again after a few months. The self-absorbing government declaration as a connoisseur or specialist for the Western Balkans has long since come to light with the Brda process or better with the Brdski Fault. Slovenia, unlike the Western Balkan countries, has been on the Western balcony for several years now, which is in the EU. Perhaps this very stay on the western balcony contributed to the fact that in the guidelines and declarations it did not detect innovation, the emergency barbecue in order to make Slovenia a valuable and relevant force in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Zares Group supports the Western Balkans Declaration and agrees with those remarks if we are late. Of course, we have been late for 20 years to get over and overcome the anti-Balkan syndrome we experienced at a time when we were fleeing the Balkans and the Balkans and we were afraid of it, we thought geopolitics would once again prevail in European relations. We wanted to move into a space that is actually marked by geographical, historical, cultural and economic ties right with the Western Balkans, and we are well aware of that today. We are aware as a member of the EU, who has for several years missed the opportunity to place her influence and her interests on this very area, while other countries that are not part of this space have overtaken us and our own economic and geopolitical interests. We believe that the Government, this government, has taken some important steps over the past half-second year. The meeting in Brdo was only the highlight of a policy that understands the Balkans differently than the previous governments understood that we are no longer afraid of this place, but we also belong to it, to a certain extent, actively as a member of the European Union. We have finally seen and understood where our economic, political and geostrategic interests can be realized. Slovenia is not a large country, but an important country. It is an important country, in particular from an economic point of view, and this declaration is certainly political, it is a political framework that finally proves that we have exceeded all traumas, all former complexes and that we are now defined as an active member of the European Union to some key issues. After all, the agreement and agreement with neighbouring Croatia is going this way, as we offer the Western Balkans an interesting example of cooperation and also of the resolution of those disputes which the Balkan or Western Balkan countries have inherited since the collapse of the former SFRY. The Zares Group has no problems, it has never had them by defining them to the Western Balkans, and it supports this declaration and all the guidelines, as well as all the concrete steps of our diplomacy towards strengthening our ties and our interests in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group support the adoption of a declaration supplementing the proposal for guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the Western Balkans as a basis and lever for the strengthened and more coordinated functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. The proposal for a declaration confirms the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to the cooperation, assistance and development of the region. The Western Balkans, in view of the strategic foreign policy documents, and in particular because of the direction of the Slovenian economy, are among the priority regions for our country, although in our view the country has not given sufficient attention to this cooperation. We also attach to the opinion of the Council of State, which considers that from the economic point of view of our country, through creative bilateral cooperation, much can be gained. The purpose of the declaration should certainly be to cooperate and create a favourable environment in the Western Balkans for the representation of Slovenian national interests. Stability, peace and cooperation in the region are essential, especially in times of economic and financial crisis. Support for strengthening the relationship and deepening the cooperation of Slovenia with the countries of the Western Balkans, however, in the view of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, must not imply a weakening or diminishing of democratic standards and principles. The issue of security and disaster management, respect for human rights, standard unification, close cooperation between the judiciary and internal ministers, such as the continuation of the Brdo process, efforts and strengthening cooperation in the economic field, strengthening scientific and technological cooperation, and more active involvement of Slovenian representatives in the authorities of the region are instruments that can have a beneficial impact on stability in the region, as well as on the more favourable situation of Slovenia in the region and thus on opportunities for greater investment and economic recovery, which is the final objective of accepting the declaration. Declaration is, of course, a condition for some better relations and the possibility of impact and cooperation. The second question is, what will we also benefit from in terms of good relations in the Balkans, also for the benefit of the Slovenians living in the former country. We support the Declaration in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u12	Good morning, distinguished president, distinguished secretary of state, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans. The Declaration expresses the general position of the Republic of Slovenia towards the Western Balkans and at a symbolic level confirms its commitment to strengthening the relations, cooperation, assistance and development of the region. The declaration is of a general nature so that it can adapt to all current events. The implementation of the declaration represents the guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Western Balkans, which we have considered on the home working body in the month of April. These guidelines provide that the Government will establish a Coordination Committee for the Western Balkans, whose responsibility will be to ensure the strengthened and coordinated functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Western Balkans. It will be run by the National Coordinator for the Western Balkans. The Coordination Committee will prepare an action plan. In the summer, it will prepare annual reports to be transmitted to the National Assembly for consideration. Of course, at this point, we cannot pass the Western Balkans conference hosted by our country in Brdo in March. The aim of the conference was to strengthen, cooperate and resolve bilateral issues in the European spirit, in the light of joint efforts to join the EU. The meeting in Brdo, also called the Brdo Process, is complementary to the objectives of the cooperation process in south-eastern Europe, in which Slovenia was adopted at the end of February of this year. The Republic of Slovenia supports the efforts of the countries of the region to move closer to Euro-Atlantic integration, offers assistance in reform processes and in-depth regional cooperation with and between the countries of the region. In doing so, we must pay particular attention to Slovenia's efforts to strengthen cooperation in various areas. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that Slovenia has regained the reputation of an active country in the Western Balkans because of the new policy in recent months. According to our assessment, in the Republic of Slovenia we need to monitor developments in the Western Balkans region and respond to individual events, while adapting the declaration accordingly. We also believe that the so-called Brdo process must continue, in particular efforts should be made to strengthen cooperation in the economic field, the Republic of Slovenia should take a stronger economic role and open investment opportunities. We also need to play a more active role in leadership positions in various international structures, according to our assessment in Slovenia. As has already been said, we fully support the Declaration in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u14	Hello, everybody! The declaration comes to the table at least 15 years too late. At that time, all those who wanted to invest and what to do for their own benefit had already done so. In fact, nothing is left in the Western Balkans today, so that we can get involved in some business matters, including this long-term and wide-ranging declaration. It is interesting that there is no Croatia within the deadline and within the terms of the Western Balkans. Does this mean that Mr. Pahor has already taken up some kind of confederacy with the Croats? His Dubrovnik meeting points to the fact that, as we have seen, only the flag of neighbouring Croatia and the European Union was visible on official recordings, and there was no Slovenian flag. Given that Prime Minister Pahor spoke Croatian, this also suggests a certain approximation of this work. It's very interesting, and, uh, I don't know how people look at it. The coalition seems to have made up its mind and is ready to do everything possible to get close to Croatia. The hill was a total fiasco. This is what all Europe knows and has only been the laughingstock of European diplomatic circles. Nothing means Hill, less than nothing. It's all too late and it's all unfinished. After all, the only thing that will come out of it will be that the government will set up a coordinating committee in which a whole range of different political experts, so-called, will serve, sit and work — nothing. The fact is that not knowing the Balkans is the first issue in Slovenia. We have a whole range of quasi experts talking about the Balkans this and that, but all of this, if we can put on the lowest common denominator, just means how much I'm going to lose in my pocket. In such people, we have nothing to do with such diplomats, and we cannot ask Slovenia to receive anything from them. And she won't get it. There is talk of strengthening and developing transport and energy connections. In Slovenia, however, we do not know what a transport link is. What have we done with transport links in Slovenia? Nothing! They won't be implemented. Rail transport will not go through Slovenia. The Italians are building a fast track, the Austrians have almost completed that fast track and everything will go around Slovenia. Croatia is working its way all the way to Zagreb, while we do not think about it because we do not know what it means. Since we have ministers who are interested in everything else, only the development of Slovenia and the development of transport infrastructure are not. Whenever a matter is a little more necessary, we do not find it, for some people do not think otherwise than what they have been taught at the Kumrov courses. I'm sorry. And also about the Balkans. Europe is slowly aware that everything will have to be settled at the peace conference. The Slovenians still don't know that. Probably not because of this, because the plans for the confederation with Croatia are getting more and more and more slowly coming into play; they are still hidden, but information is coming from coalition parties' logos. Members of coalition parties certainly know much less about this than anyone else, but if a person has the right resources and can listen, he can learn a lot. The fact is that this so-called declaration is a victory that has neither tail nor head. There's a whole series of wishes, some hints and everything without any juice. It's a baseless babbling. And that is why we will not even participate in the vote, let alone support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u16	Your Honor! The time to make any decisions is always right or never the right time; everything depends on what angle you look at and what you want to say. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that there is always a need to talk about open issues and to contribute our share to solutions where problems exist. Therefore, we do not wonder what the scope of the declaration, which in itself, if only on paper, will have no value anyway. However, if we are all aware together that, as legislators, we can contribute to the decision-making process of our day-to-day activities, then it can be of great importance and weight. Clearly, knowledge and the need to do more has matured. World policy is also changing according to the latest directions of the United States of America's foreign policy orientation. It is not necessary to be very smart to find that it was precisely these powers in the Western Balkans that had a decisive impact when we went apart in 1999, when peace was established, that I should not say Dayton and Bosnia and Herzegovina and finally by 2006 or spring 2007, when Kosovo was recognised. We had a role there, too, but we were too shyly held back or, on the other hand, out of tune, however. These things are always about the question of what is the interest, what is the desire to participate in these matters. It is also a responsibility, a responsibility to solve problems in the neighbourhood, and we firmly believe that Slovenia must play a significant role in various areas, both political and economic regulation, and other issues in the Western Balkans, as it has and could have. For example, just the last time the international community wants to increase its security presence by increasing the number of soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have not given an official response to this request. But, no, we'd rather go to Afghanistan and for many we don't even know what we're doing there, even sooner than later the results will be very clear, but this is a practical example and an example of how it can help to regulate the situation. The Hill Process Conference is a nice start, but it has failed a little since there was no full participation, but regardless, everyone knows that we have the will to have knowledge, knowledge of these problems in the Western Balkans and that we can play a leading role in a wide range of processes. It will never be clear to me why the previous foreign policy did not want me to be the first to recognise Montenegro as a single country, which has also been a major contribution to stabilising the situation in the Western Balkans, because some antagonism between Serbia and Montenegro has disintegrated and what should have been regulated by 1991 has settled so much later. No, but the former Foreign Minister said, "We don't have to do this together" and so on. We were all beat over, all of us, from Iceland forward, which was the first one, and we were crying from behind, but we did hurry and then we opened the embassy down there first, which is the second story. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we therefore believe that Slovenia must take advantage of every opportunity, on the one hand, to say from its experience how these things could be handled together with others, both with the European Union and with other countries around the world, to assume its share of the responsibility for this and, in particular, to take on concrete matters when it comes to regulating the final situation in relation to visa liberalisation, the adoption of social relations agreements and so on. We'll support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dejan Levanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The idea promoted by the proposed Declaration on the Western Balkans aims primarily at the stability and development of countries and their citizens in the region through mutual cooperation in economic, administrative, cultural and other areas, particularly for social development and stability of important areas. The role of Slovenia as a country operating in this region, which is historically, culturally and socially connected with most countries, is of paramount importance. This position also imposes a certain degree of responsibility on Slovenia to use its capabilities, knowledge and capabilities in the most appropriate and effective way, in particular to help develop the region further. Undoubtedly, however, the greatest share of responsibility lies in the countries of the region themselves, which have identified their political will and interest in participating in the Euro-Atlantic processes. The principles on which the proposal for a declaration in the Western Balkans is based are certainly legal: overcoming political reservations and prejudices by developing more active cooperation and integration between the countries of the region in all areas of human life from economic to political. This is essentially the model on which the European Economic Community or the current European Union emerged. In the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans, Slovenia is particularly committed to strengthening relations with all neighbouring countries and countries of the outermost region, in particular with the Western Balkan countries, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania and Kosovo, to deepen regional cooperation between them, in particular with a view to creating forms of creative cooperation and mutual assistance. In bilateral relations with international organisations, the Republic of Slovenia shall, in particular within the framework of the European Union and NATO, endeavour to bring the regions closer to Euro-Atlantic integration as quickly as possible, in particular for cooperation between countries on the basis of good-neighbourly relations, for the effective resolution of open, bilateral issues, and for the social, economic and sustainable development of the region. To this end, Slovenia is strengthening relations with countries in the region, not only at government level, but parliamentary cooperation is also growing. The vital interest of Slovenia is that all Western Balkan countries become members of Euro-Atlantic integration as soon as possible on the basis of the criteria so far. As I have already said, Slovenia has a very important role to play in this regard. They're getting bigger. It's true she didn't have it in the past or she just didn't want it. However, the current government has taken some important steps in this direction. But typical of Slovenian politics is that nothing is good enough, even if it is, the matter has to be criticised. Since we are convinced of the contrary in the Group of Social Democrats, and because of the foregoing, because of general arguments, we support the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans, because by adopting this act we demonstrate our commitment to creating an area of permanent security and of course the overall development of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary proposal have been tabled. We will decide on the proposal for a declaration in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please, Mr. Snitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Dispute. The novel's proposal has two objectives. The first objective is to eliminate the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution established by the Constitutional Court in November 2009, when it assessed the provision governing the way in which costs are reimbursed, to those who file an accusation in an administrative dispute, in cases where they withdraw the action because they have somehow forced the administrative authority to issue the decision on the basis of the action. In the present case, the provision that the parties bear the costs of the proceedings themselves was found, or found to be inadequate and partly contrary to the Constitution, and therefore we abolish and introduce an arrangement whereby, even in such cases, parties who have actually succeeded in this way, despite the withdrawal of the action, a certain amount of the lump sum of their costs would be reimbursed by the action. The second objective of the amended proposal is to ensure the effective implementation of the legal institution of public interest in practice. As has been the case in the public eye, and several times has been highlighted in the past year, the implementation of this institute has in practice shown that the regulation is not adequate, as it does not allow effective protection of public interest, due to the rather complex procedure for granting the mandate of the State Defence to file actions in such proceedings. The proposed amendment removes this ambiguity and introduces the principle that by means of a legislative dictatorship it is clearly stated that the representative of the public interest in the administrative dispute is the State defence. The Government’s jurisdiction is reserved that it may request the State Defence to file such an action if the Government considers that the law is in breach of the public interest in a particular act. The proposed regulation also eliminates the issues of the right to make extraordinary legal remedies by the State Defence with the same aim of protecting the public interest, including this possibility is now authorised or made possible by the novelty before you. A similar objective of more effective protection of public interest was introduced over time by the SLS Group, which had the same objectives, in other words, to ensure more effective protection of public interest, but the Government did not confirm that proposal at that time because it assessed that the way in which this solution was proposed was less appropriate and would in fact lead to more problems in practice. The proposal before you differs from that in three sets. The first is that the power of defence is no longer based on some general mandate of the Government, but is based on the law itself, which is legally more appropriate and also clearer and will in practice create fewer problems. The second difference is that the proposal before you also deals with the issue of investing in extraordinary legal remedies, which the proposaler was already aware that there is a certain problem in this regard, but was not able to offer a solution to the problem at the time. Finally, this novel, which is before you today or the proposal for this novel, also eliminates the constitutionality found by the Constitutional Court. The solutions in this law, although the novelty is short, are not simple or are the result of a long-term search for an appropriate solution, as the institution of the representative of public interest raises fundamental issues of the Law on Administrative Dispute, in particular in relation to the so-called subjective concept of administrative procedure. For this reason, the Government also needed a little more time to submit this proposal, which is before you, which we estimate will in practice allow effective protection of the public interest while at the same time eliminating the unconstitutionalities found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this law at its 20th meeting on 1 July 2010 as a working body. The draft law was referred by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure, and the College of the President of the National Assembly decided on 22 June 2010 that the law would be dealt with in an urgent manner. In addition to the law, the Committee also had the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Škrlec, State Secretary, introduced the law. We've heard his explanation, so I think I can skip it, because he's already thoroughly presented it. Ms Špela Macek Gustin, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, presented a written opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and said that the proposed law interferes with the constitutional concept of a system-wide administrative dispute regime by introducing a special guardian of legality or public interest, as there may be a shift of responsibility to the State Defence by the Government of Slovenia or even a conflict of their interests. The Committee has also received a written opinion from the Council of State or its competent commission, which supports the law. The Committee adopted unanimously the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted both on this amendment and on all the other articles together and adopted them and provided that the integral text, after being examined on the working body, is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The new law before us has two objectives: the first is to implement the provisions of the Constitutional Court of 11 November 2009. Another reason is to ensure the effective implementation of the legal representative of public interest in practice. As already mentioned in the presentation of the law, the Constitutional Court found in its decision that the partial non-constitutional arrangement of Article 25, paragraph 4, is, in the event that, for all cases, the suspension or rejection or rejection of an action is determined that each party suffers its own costs. Therefore, in cases where the appellant has, by means of his action, achieved that the administrative authority which has remained silent has subsequently issued a specific act and the party has subsequently withdrawn the action, the action has achieved what it has always wanted, this party does not suffer its costs of the procedure, as it could be said that it has won in some way in this proceeding. The Novela further deals with the issue of the regulation of the representative of public interest on an administrative dispute where the administrative act violates the public interest. The representative of the public interest and the person responsible for bringing such actions shall be the Attorney General of the State under the law. The proposed new Article 18 thus amends the current regulation of the representative of the public interest. A key novelty is the abolition of the procedure for granting special powers to the Government, namely, the State Attorney's Office would assess the existence of a violation of the law in the interest of the public interest in a particular case and then, as a party, file an action against the administrative act to which the infringement relates. Of course, the Government can always, irrespective of the assessment of the State’s defence, also order it to bring an action on a case-by-case basis when it considers it necessary to protect the public interest. In such a case, the State's Attorney's Office is bound by the government's order and must file an action. In the Zares Group, we would like to draw attention to the problems that have occurred in practice due to the short 30-day period since the service of the administrative act for the lodging of the action, because it takes quite some time for the professional preparation of the proposal for the authorisation to be issued, and the deadline of 30 days has proved to be too short. Amendments to the law are properly regulated by this issue, and we will therefore support them in the Parliamentary Group for real – a new policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The applicants point out that the proposed solutions comply with a decision of the Constitutional Court which has decided that the provision of Article 25, paragraph 4, of the Administrative Dispute Act is, in some cases, a stay of proceedings in non-conformity with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has contested the rules governing the costs of the proceedings in terms of the principle of equality before the law and has found that there is no reasonable reason for equal treatment of the costs of the procedure in different cases of termination of the proceedings. Of course, we support the cost solution. It is, therefore, that in cases where the defendant actually achieved by this action that the administrative authority which had previously remained silent has issued a specific act and has, of course, subsequently withdrawn the action, as the action has achieved what it has always wanted. So they're issuing an act. That such a party does not suffer its costs as it has won in some way in this process. The arrangements proposed in the amendment to Article 25 thus now give the Court the possibility in these cases that such a party may, in the flat-rate amount, also determine the reimbursement of its costs. The draft law also proposes amendments and additions to the provisions governing the Institute of Public Interest. The draft law provides that the State Defence Office is an agent of public interest. By laying down the representative of public interest, the submission of the power to bring an action will no longer be necessary in the law. However, the Government will be able to order that the State Defence Office, on a case-by-case basis, should file an action for breach of public interest. The proposed solution is very similar to what our parliamentary group, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, has put into the legislative process and with which we wanted to solve the same problem. While the Secretary of State said in his presentation that our way was less appropriate, he was solving the same matter, less suitable and more difficult, the government would then be able to amend this proposal and this issue would be resolved. However, since it is obviously more important who signs under the motion, this has been seen several times, but of course they have not supported our proposal, but rather copied it a little, complemented it a little, and we will, of course, support it today, because it seems more important to us that the issue is being resolved than who is proposing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal of the law, not only that we support it, but we believe that it is necessary to approach the amendments to the individual provisions of the laws which the Constitutional Court has considered to be incompatible with the Constitution of our country. This is our duty and the proposal for a law in one part follows the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is part of the cost of the procedure and it is practically our duty to accede to the amendments to these provisions, and we therefore support this solution. We also support the second part of the amendment, which is not bound by any of the constitutional decisions and is of a substantive nature. This is a change of the Institute of Public Interest, the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment is in the direction of unnecessary submission of the power to file an action and the Government may order that the State Defence Office should file an action on a case-by-case basis as a result of a breach of public interest. We have already considered such a solution in this Chamber, but the proposal at the time did not include acceptable solutions in the direction of appropriateness in view of our system of regulation of this Institute of Defence. The amendment to the Administrative Dispute Act now under consideration is of a legal system nature so that it does not interfere with constitutional material and is therefore more acceptable. As a result, the DeSUS Members will contribute their votes to the adoption of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! We have a first amendment to the Administrative Dispute Act, which was adopted in 2006. The proposed amendment shall primarily implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 11 November 2009. In the Constitutional Court’s constitutional procedure and in the constitutional appeal procedure, the Administrative Dispute Act, which relates to the costs of the proceedings, has decided that, if the court stops the proceedings, it is inconsistent with the Constitution and that the finding of non-compliance has to be corrected within six months of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the fact that different situations are also possible in cases of termination of the procedure, it is also appropriate to regulate the different options for paying the costs of the administrative dispute closed. A secondary institution of public interest shall be built up. This function in an administrative dispute shall be exercised by the State Defence Office, which shall assess the existence of a breach of the law in the interest of the public interest in a particular case and may, as a party, bring an action against an administrative act to which the alleged infringement relates. The proposal for a law repeals the procedure for granting special powers to the Government with a view to strengthening the autonomy of the State's defence as a state authority. However, at the request of the Government in a particular case, the State Attorney's Office must file an action for infringement of the law in the interest of the public interest. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may also order, irrespective of the assessment of the State Defence Office, the State Defence Office to bring an action on a case-by-case basis if it considers that this is necessary in order to protect the public interest. In this case, the State Attorney's Office is bound by the Government's order and must file an action against alleged violations of the law in the interest of the public interest. The audit will be allowed after a new audit, even if the State Attorney's Office proves that the audit is being made because the law has been breached in the interest of the public. Since, in accordance with the decisions in force, only persons participating in an administrative dispute at the first stage may submit an audit in accordance with the applicable law, a representative of public interest who has not participated as a party to an administrative dispute before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia may not submit an audit, so this deficiency is corrected by an amendment. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Administrative Dispute Act are meaningful and necessary, so we will also support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Hello, Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Administrative Dispute Act is to eliminate inconsistencies between the provisions of Article 25, paragraph 4, of the Law on Administrative Dispute and Article 14, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Slovenia, which was established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by a decision of 2009. The implementation of that decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia will achieve the objective of a proposal for a law which, in order to eliminate the non-compliance of the applicable legal provision with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia or in the regulation of the costs of proceedings in administrative dispute in a manner consistent with the principle of equality before the law. The aim of the bill is also to upgrade the Institute of Public Interest in Administrative Disputes with a view to effective action in practice. The main solutions to the proposal for a law are: The Constitutional Court, in a constitutional assessment procedure and in a constitutional appeal decision procedure, decided that, pending the annulment of the finding of non-conformity, the Court shall decide on the costs of the proceedings in an administrative dispute in Article 25, paragraph 1, of the Administrative Dispute Act, provided that the proceedings have been brought to a standstill by the court because the authority has issued an administrative act finalizing the claimant's right to an obligation or benefit and the applicant does not insist on the action. Under the third paragraph of the same Article, the court shall terminate the proceedings because the authority has issued an act but has not yet been definitively decided on the right of obligation or the legal benefit of the applicant. The proposed amendments or additions to Article 25 of the Administrative Dispute Act in the draft law follow the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law removes the found non-compliance with the provisions of Article 25, paragraph 4, of the Law on Administrative Disputes with Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Slovenia. The bill also proposes minor changes and additions to the law, which will allow for the effective implementation of this institution in practice. In order to represent the public interest, the State Defence Office is proposed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may, on a case-by-case basis, request an action if it considers it a violation of the law to the detriment of the public interest. The Supreme Court took the view that anyone requiring the protection of his or her rights and legal benefits in an administrative dispute must demonstrate his or her legal interest or legal need throughout the proceedings, which means that it must prove as valid that his or her request would constitute a certain legal benefit for him, which could not have been achieved without it. A legal need shall be given only if it is a decision which is detrimental to the party or if a more favourable decision can be reached through legal means. The proposal for a law therefore also eliminates the lack of legal interest in the submission of an audit against the favourable judgments of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, provided that a violation of the law has been found in an individual case in the interest of the public interest. The draft law introduces a solution which provides for the State's defence as an agent of public interest, which is already in practice, as a rule, on the basis of the power of the Government to represent the public interest. Since the bill brings good solutions and at the same time implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me immediately say that in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the proposed amendment to the Administrative Dispute Act. The proposed solution implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of November 2009. In the light of the principle of equality before the law, the Constitutional Court ruled that the provision of Article 25, paragraph 4, of the Law on Administrative Disputes, in non-conformity with the Constitution, should the court suspend the proceedings under Article 39, paragraph 3, or paragraph 4, which state that the applicant declares that he persists in the action, the court shall continue the proceedings, otherwise the decision shall be brought to a standstill if the Court of First Instance has failed to issue and served the administrative act to the party within the prescribed time limit, such an act shall be issued after the action has been brought, the court shall, by decision, terminate the proceedings if an appeal has been made against the administrative act issued. If the appeal is not admissible, the court shall, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, proceed. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law also govern the institution of the representative of public interest or, as explained by the Secretary of State on behalf of the applicant, the institution of the representative of public interest in an administrative dispute with a view to effective action in practice. The amendment also states that the State defence is an agent of public interest, taking into account the fact that the regulation of a public interest representative is an exception to the subjective concept of administrative dispute management. However, the issue of the admissibility of the submission of an exceptional legal remedy for the audit is also being addressed and it lays down the legal interest in the case of a breach of public interest. Once again, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In fact, we have said a similar position by the Group of Members, which I am about to say a few months ago, and we have dealt with a similar law tabled by the SLS Group. This law was practically the same solution, and then I said, "We will support the proposal of the SLS Group in the SDS". Why is that? Because we try to support all that is good; whether it comes from the middle, or it comes from the left, it does not matter to us: the criterion is one — what benefits people. And this law benefits people, so we will support it today. We have no problem with that. The problem is not because he is the Government's proponent because he is supported by the coalition – we have no problem with it; the criterion is one, as I said: what benefits people. Unfortunately, the policy of this coalition is that what the coalition MPs or the government do not write is in force in the Russian Constitution. The first article — if the boss is right — and the second article — is to be considered first if the boss is wrong. That's the logic of this coalition. And it's perfectly normal – not Mr Kontic, it's different in the police. Don't get upset. It's worse in the coalition. You weren't there. I was there. Thank you very much. Look, marriage brings a solution that's good. The defence gives a general mandate to appear in cases of protection of public interest. Why did the People's Party propose that proposal to their marriage? Because we found out in the Baricevic affair – what? That, of course, the Advocate-General has asked for permission – an example of the return of dogs – and he has not received it, of course, because the judiciary has not made such a proposal to the Government. This is now a completely different story, which then happened, but apparently in the opposition we recognized and said that the lawyer needed such a mandate. That is why such a law was introduced by the People’s Party and, of course, it received our support. The coalition then said "no, no, because we don't need it, because that's not the case, but it can't be that way, and it could be unconstitutional". Now that article of the People's Party has crammed, added something else, and before us is the law that will be passed in general, so at least it appears, by all the groups of Members. But, ladies and gentlemen, the standard of our work should be for the benefit of the people. It benefits people and not inter-party fighting and proving that the coalition is always right. Even in the case of many other laws, so does it. In the case of economic laws, last year's financial laws. When we put them in, you said no, because you're always right. And a year later, you made them gloat because the situation forced you to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, then we will uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On the agenda, that's an auspicious motion for an Auspicious Explanation 178. Member of the Criminal Code (Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 55/08, 66/08 – SPR. 39/09, 55/09). The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by Mr Tsukati to the assembly. With regard to this proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes that the National Assembly not adopt the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 178 of the Penal Code. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u38	The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 178 of the Penal Code at the first meeting of 1 July 2010 as a working body, and the proposal was made by Mr France Cukjat. We had the text of the proposal, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government, and a letter from Prof. Alexander Manohin. Mr Cukjat said in an additional explanation for the proposal of an authentic explanation that the admission initiative came from the medical and judicial circles. In particular, doctors who face professional dilemmas and even personal difficulties in their work, how to act in the event of direct life-threatening or, say, unconscious patients who have previously clearly expressed their will not to accept blood transfusions or blood products. Mrs Gustinova, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, presented the written opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and said that the authentic interpretation meant an interpretation of the unclear legal standard which became an integral part of the law and became applicable from the date of the law's entry into force, so its content must be the same as that of the standard which it had already had when it was put into force. The representative of the Government, Mr Škrlec, presented the Government's written opinion and stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the adoption of the proposed authentic interpretation because it is not necessary, since Article 178 of the Penal Code is a standard supplemented by other rules. The Committee also received a written opinion from the Commission of the State Council, which supports the authentic interpretation. Prof. Alexander Manohin said that on 9 April 2010, a round table on forensic and ethical dilemmas in anesthesia and intensive treatment was held as part of European post-graduate education from anesthesiology, where the debate also took place on issues related to the rejection of blood therapy and blood products. The proposed authentic explanation would address the uncertainty in which the doctor finds himself in his work because of non-compliance with Article 178 of the Penal Code and the Patient Rights Act, which, in his view, plays an excessive role in making professional decisions on his treatment. After the introductory part, the Committee referred to the question of whether the proposed authentic interpretation of the law should be adopted. The majority of the debaters confirmed the Government's view and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the adoption of a proposal for an authentic interpretation was not necessary, as it did not solve the problems, while creating an unanimity between the Penal Code and the Patient Rights Act. The other discussers, however, confirmed or supported the proposed authentic explanation by removing the doctor’s dilemma in deciding how to treat the patient. The Committee then decided, pursuant to Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the following proposal for a decision: the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considers that the authentic interpretation of Article 178 of the Penal Code should be adopted. The proposed decision was not adopted by the Committee; 6 votes in favour, 8 against. In view of this, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 178 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the applicant France Tsukati for further explanation of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The conclusions of the round table on ethical and forensic dilemmas in anaesthesia and intensive treatment were, as has already been said, the reasons for the submission of the proposal for an authentic explanation. This round table was held on April 9th this year. It was attended by eminent experts who are familiar with these problems, from Prof. Jožet Trontl, President of the SAZU and the Medical Ethics Commission, to renowned professors and experts in criminal law. The Commission’s content was drawn up by Prof. Alexander Manohin, Chairman of the Section for the Development of Guidelines and Staff Standards in the field of Anesthesiology, as well as the President of the Expanded College of Experts on Anesthesiology, Reanimology and Operational Intensive Medicine. The reason for this is the dilemma that arose with the Patient Rights Act. In fact, the Penal Code in Article 178 has long said that a doctor who, contrary to his professional duty, does not assist a patient or anyone else who is in danger of life, is punished by imprisonment for up to one year, and the Patients' Rights Act explicitly defines the right to refuse medical intervention in Article 30: "A patient who is capable of deciding on himself has the right to refuse the proposed medical procedure." Because in cases where a patient chooses specifically for an operation and such cases have already occurred, and at the same time rejects the possibility of possible emergency blood therapy, it is said that blood transfusion cannot be re-determined during surgery because it is in anesthesia. That's up to the anesthesiologist who's leading the patient's anesthesia. And then anesthesiologists are often in a serious dilemma when there is a need for transfusions. Of course, this is not a black and white situation, an anesthesiologist cannot assess black and white: if he does not get a transfusion, the patient will die, or if he does, he will survive. There are severe dilemmas, give or refuse transfusions. Where a patient should actually be allowed to bleed without transfusions or even give it to him, or at that point the patient might change his mind when he is aware of the situation, since if he has decided to perform surgery, the patient’s supposed desire for survival is behind it. Anesthesiologists cite the dilemmas as unnecessary burden in those crucial moments that are fatal to the patient. And since the professionals of criminal law speak differently than our Law-Legal Service and state that both the prosecution and the judiciary are also on the theoretical side in a number of cases, or will often decide differently, as stated by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government in their explanation, there is a real need for an authentic explanation that is at some level authoritarian, that is to say in the National Assembly, to determine what this means, and to resolve this dilemma. I think it is in the best interest of the patients, but in particular for the benefit of those who want to help, sometimes they are needlessly in serious dilemmas about what to do. For this reason, I propose that this initiation of the procedure be adopted, but it can also be completed in accordance with the instructions and recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u42	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As has already been pointed out by the rapporteur of the labour force, the Government considers that accepting an authentic interpretation of Article 178 relating to the offence of abandonment of health care is not necessary, even we believe that accepting such an authentic interpretation would be harmful and would bring more confusion into the legal order than the answers. Why is the government like this? As we have already heard, the current current articulation of Article 178, and this article, in its unaltered form, has been valid since the adoption of the first Penal Code in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as since earlier, provided that the physician who does not help is criminally responsible in breach of his professional duty. It is crucial that the legal standard is contrary to professional duty. What is a professional duty cannot be defined in the Penal Code. This is a complex and demanding set of professional, ethical and other criteria to be met, in which case the legislator, as usual in such cases, intervened after being defined by a legal standard and the content of this legal standard lays down and completes sectoral legislation; in this case, a whole range of health protection rules, including the Patients' Rights Act. And the Law on Patients’ Rights poses an important challenge to the doctor, namely, the duty to take into account the patient’s will to progress or the possibility of refusing or rejecting certain forms of treatment, in this case with blood or blood products. The Patient Rights Act allows the patient to refuse such treatment and, on the other hand, obliges the doctor to take such a patient’s wish into account if it is issued or given as a whole a set of criteria, which the law also specifies. The question of the authentic interpretation of these dilemmas, which doctors have rightly pointed out, cannot be solved. Why not? Because doctors face questions in their work as to whether this duty has been given or whether conditions have been given to ensure that the patient’s will is respected. These are real questions that are challenging, which present a totally understandable severe tribulation for a doctor who, in such a situation, finds himself making such a decision and requires answers to very difficult professional and moral questions. Above all, there is something to know; the questions to which the doctor at that time answers are whether the criteria under the Patient Rights Act are met. It's that law that sets out the contents of the doctor's duty. And if the doctor acts in accordance with the duty prescribed by the law, in this case the Patient Rights Act, then there is no criminal liability. The penal law is very clear in this case: a doctor who acts in accordance with the legislation governing the protection of health, even in accordance with the Law on Patient Rights, cannot be held responsible for a crime because he has not acted contrary to his professional duty. So the difficult questions that appear before the doctor, of course, must be answered, but they must be answered by the doctor in a specific case. The mandatory interpretation or authentic interpretation of the law, the criminal law, cannot resolve these issues. In particular, if we adopt an authentic explanation in which we repeat the conditions laid down in the Patients' Rights Act that they must be given to exclude such liability or to comply with the patient's will, even in this case, questions will arise in practice as to whether all these conditions in the authentic interpretation have really been given and have been found in an appropriate manner. Of course, it will not be possible to avoid all of this through an authentic explanation. And even if the authentic interpretation were accepted, this would not mean that in the future there would be no judicial proceedings to verify whether the conditions and requirements of the authentic interpretation were indeed given. On the other hand, the adoption of an authentic explanation would raise just one question, in this case blood products or blood treatments, legitimate questions as to what, in many other cases, legal issues are regulated by legal standards in which an authentic interpretation has not been adopted. This means that by adopting an authentic explanation we would actually open up more questions than we would offer answers. Therefore, the Government considers that the adoption of such an authentic explanation is not necessary and could even be harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, a nice greeting to all present! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware that the matter is very complex and difficult both in terms of patient rights and also in terms of doctors. On the one hand, we have the legal explanation and views of lawyers, on the other hand, common human reason, and on the other hand, doctors who are faced with difficult decisions, whether to follow Hippocrates ’ oath or at the patient’s wishes. The fact is that the Penal Code provides that a physician who, contrary to his professional duty, does not assist a patient is criminally responsible, but under the Patient Rights Act, the doctor is also obliged to respect the patient’s wishes. If we look at all these matters together, we think we need to accept this authentic explanation, of course, if we want to prevent cases where a patient chooses to take his or her own will, the doctor takes it into account, and then death comes, and relatives, possible lawsuits come along, and the life and career of a doctor can be ruined. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will vote against the Committee's proposal primarily because of the vague provisions of the Code, which leave the doctor not only before the daily ethical dilemmas, which are not easy in themselves, but should also deal with legal matters and considerations, whether or not he will be in violation of the law, taking into account the patient's wishes. In our opinion, an authentic explanation should also be adopted because it obliges judges who are now in considerable difficulty in the trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As one of the reasons for it, the applicant of the authentic interpretation stated that the Slovenian legislation does not take due account of the patient’s autonomy, since, with regard to the actions of the physician in an unconscious patient, who had previously made clear his will not to accept blood transfusions and blood products, the position of the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to medical ethics and the statements of the Penal Code opposes each other in the event of his direct life threat. These positions and indications are not exactly consistent in the case of an emergency where a patient may die if there is severe bleeding during anaesthesia, during an operation where a transfusion could only save the patient's life. In the opinion of the applicant, it is unclear how to handle such a case in a patient who, immediately prior to surgery after an appropriate explanation and a warning of possible complications of transfusion rejection and after the doctor’s attempt to change his or her decision, still insisted that he or she would not allow blood transfusions or blood products. The dilemma raised by the applicant is, therefore, that we are obliged under the Penal Code to provide emergency health care and, in the opinion of the Commission for Medical Ethics, to respect the patient's will in this case. In our parliamentary group, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I think that this opinion is very correct, very well written, and also in the opinion of the Government that there is no need for an authentic explanation, as the proposal comes from a narrow, if not inappropriate view of the general rules and possibilities of legal standardisation. According to our assessment, there is only one aspect of narrow interpretation, i.e. from the point of view of refusing blood therapy or blood products. But we know there's enough of these dilemmas. We believe that Article 178 of the Penal Code should be understood by referring to a professional duty to respect the patient's autonomy, which it exercises through its right to self-determination in the treatment. The clarity of the provision under consideration depends on the content of the concept of the professional duty of a doctor or other healthcare professional as a legal standard governed by other regulations and not only by the Penal Code. Since, according to our assessment, even in the case referred to by the proposer of the authentic explanation, the doctor is obliged to take into account the clearly expressed will of the patient, we will support the decision of the home working body that the authentic interpretation of Article 178 of the Penal Code is not adopted. However, in the end, I would just like to highlight the dilemma that exists. The dilemma faced by so-called medical experts and the dilemma faced by the prosecution and the judiciary. It is right that we are discussing this today, and it is right that this question of authentic interpretation appeared in the National Assembly, because this has actually confirmed the dilemma that exists for medical experts and was expressed on the round table months ago in our country. also the dilemma that some judicial experts have on this issue. If we are to say only what a professional duty is, then the professional responsibility of a doctor or a healthcare professional is determined by specific regulations, both by the Medical Service Act, by the Health Act, by the Patient Rights Act and, of course, by the Medical Deontology Code. There is no definition of how to treat a criminal code. However, we must also say that there is still a dilemma for me, even though I support the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission, and also our group, especially because I know that part of the prosecution and part of the judiciary may not accept what has been written and what has been written. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] , and that the authentic explanations of the specific matter are not favourable. That's why it's right that we talked about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u48	Respected1 The authentic interpretation of the law is an instrument which allows the legislator to legally determine the content of the legal provision which he has already adopted, within its original meaning, so that it is in practice clear what this requires. The authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law, but can only refer to the interpretation of the legal provisions which have proved unclear in practice in the context of the content in question. Article 178 of the Penal Code provides that a doctor or other healthcare professional who, contrary to his professional duty, does not assist a patient or anyone else who is in danger of life shall be punished by imprisonment for up to one year. In the opinion of the applicant, it is unclear how to treat the patient in a case that, immediately prior to surgery, after an appropriate explanation and a warning of possible complications of transfusion rejection and after a doctor’s attempt to change his or her decision, he still insisted not to allow blood transfusions or blood products. The growing dilemma is, therefore, that we are obliged under the Penal Code to provide emergency health care and that, according to the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia, for medical ethics, we respect the patients' will and whether such respect for the patient's will can be considered a crime of abandonment of health care. Compared to the legal text of Article 178 of the Penal Code, it could be concluded that it is complemented by the proposed authentic interpretation, and therefore doubts remain about its suitability, but it is not possible to overlook the complainant's strong arguments, in particular from the point of view of the patient's autonomy exercised through his right to self-determination as regards the treated. The dilemma faced by doctors is undoubtedly extremely difficult. Article 51 of the Constitution should be taken into consideration, under which no one can be forced to receive treatment, except in cases provided for by law, as well as in the law on patient rights, which requires the physician to respect the patient's will regarding all interventions to his or her health, even when it is obvious that if there is no intervention, the patient will die. It might suggest accepting an authentic explanation as a bridge to permanent regulation at the level of systemic solutions, so in the Slovenian National Party's Group we will not oppose it, because we believe that the doctor must perform the professional duty prescribed by medical ethics regardless of the patient's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal of the Labour Body, namely the Committee on Justice, Internal Policy and Public Administration, so that the proposal for a mandatory interpretation of Article 178 of the Penal Code is not adopted. For the parliamentary group, according to the proposal for a mandatory interpretation, there is always a fundamental issue raised by the Government, which is also highlighted by our Legislative and Legal Service, that the mandatory interpretation cannot change the provisions of the current law or extend it, and it is generally necessary only if the undisputedly vague provisions are clarified, since otherwise there is a mandatory interpretation of amendments to the law. Whenever a mandatory interpretation is decided, we assess these issues in particular. In a specific case, the assessment of these issues was even more difficult than usual because it is a matter of treatment and because it is a matter of the rights that patients have to decide or decide how best medical care should be provided to them and, on the other hand, the rights of doctors to take into account the requirements of patients. We have found that all, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government and, ultimately, the motioners of the mandatory interpretation, are undisputedly taking into account the text of Article 178 of the Penal Code, which states: "A doctor or other healthcare professional who, contrary to his professional duty, does not assist a patient or anyone else who is in danger of life, is punished by imprisonment for up to one year." The Penal Code therefore assumes the obligation of treatment and, in this respect, the doctor, under the Law on Patient Rights, is certainly in an extremely difficult position, when he must also take into account the Law on Patient Rights, under which the patient has the right to self-determination under the conditions laid down in this Law and under which a patient who is able to decide on himself has the right to refuse the proposed medical treatment or medical care, unless it would endanger the life or serious health of others. To consider whether the proposed mandatory interpretation would entail an extension of the provisions to be interpreted, we have also taken into account in our parliamentary group that the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Patient Rights, which we must also take into account, states that "if a doctor who is a healthy patient considers that the patient’s decision is contrary to his best medical benefit and that rejection could endanger his life or cause an irreparable or severe deterioration of his health condition, he should try to convince the patient and, if necessary, ask the patient’s family members to help him or propose to a second opinion". And this fact that it is necessary to seek the assistance of close family members and to propose to the patient that a second opinion be obtained in the proposal for a mandatory interpretation is not taken into account at all. We believe that by adopting such a mandatory explanation, we would go beyond the content laid down in the Penal Code and its application in conjunction with the Patient Rights Act, and this is also one of the reasons why we will support the proposal of the home labour body so that the compulsory interpretation is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati. Please. And may I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party agrees with the interpretation of the Legislative and Legal Service on the Penal Code and the content of this disputed article of the Penal Code. We, too, believe that the patient's right to reject an individual intervention certainly has an absolute advantage and that the patient's right and decision must be respected in any case if, of course, he is sufficiently aware of the consequences of his decision. The legal and legal service even says that it is possible or that a doctor should even refuse an intervention in which the need for an action rejected by a patient may arise. For example, if there is a possibility of surgery, only the possibility of a transfusion being required, then the doctor can even refuse surgery. Very interesting! This is the first time I have heard such an explanation of this article of the Penal Code. However, we agree with this explanation, but we do not agree with the view that this matter is quite clear. It's not. Look, I'm going to read the opinion of Professor Damian Korost, an expert in Kazan law. This is what he says about the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. I quote: "Her opinion is factually correct and with him as to the importance of the professional and professional duties of a doctor in criminal law I gladly agree, but the courts in criminal matters are not bound to him. As is known from criminal law theory and as politically expected, an important part of the prosecution and, in particular, the judiciary, as well as part of the theorists of criminal law, will not agree with such an explanation until now. Among those who disagree with this explanation are the Supreme Judges." Your Honor, we have two opinions here. One is a policy opinion that I agree with, but this is not a binding opinion. And what the authentic explanation should serve — precisely to resolve this dilemma. By authentic explanation, let it not change the law, but let it be explained that it will be clear that there will be no dilemma, no unnecessary dilemma. For this reason, we propose that this proposal be put into procedure. Although the government said it would bring in more dilemmas. Practice says we want to put an end to this very dilemma. A government representative says it would be pointless to solve only one problem, namely blood transfusion. This problem has opened up in this area. Dearly beloved, let us give the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the full opinion that deals with all the problems of emergency interventions, not just transfusions, and thus perpetuate the opinion, let us legislate! The opinion that we all agree with is also agreed by doctors. Is it such a sin to accept an authentic explanation? It can be complemented by content. I don't think there's gonna be any problem that we're all looking for the right solution. So that is all we are proposing to do is to let the procedure go forward, reject this opinion of the Committee and then supplement it substantively, just as the Government, the Rule of Law Service, will propose, and we will solve this problem in an integrated manner. There are tolerances before us, there will be cases where there will be many accidents again, both in the mountains and in traffic accidents, and it is unnecessary to allow such dilemmas to appear on the operating tables.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I should like to say thank you for the great attention you are paying to the opinion of the Group of Members of the European Union on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of this article of the Code of Penalties proposed by my colleague Tsukati. The article to which it relates governs the offence of suspending medical care, which can only be done by a doctor or other healthcare professional when, contrary to his professional duty, he does not assist the patient or anyone else who is in danger of life. In the Really Group, we recognize that this is a question that opens up many of the dilemmas and an area on which this country has not yet decided to go. It raises some ethical questions that we will certainly have to answer in the future. However, with regard to this proposal of an authentic explanation, we unfortunately cannot agree with it in the Group of Members. Only that part of the decision that constitutes an enforcement act, i.e. the conduct that the perpetrator may commit, is problematic. This means that an act of execution is punishable, in short, by the perpetrator if the patient or anyone else who is in danger of life is not assisted in accordance with his or her professional duties. While the offence is not committed, the doctor shall provide such assistance in accordance with his professional duty. The proposal also focuses on one issue, and only one, is the issue of refusing blood therapy and blood products, which is certainly not the only case that could arise in practice in connection with that crime of abandonment of health care. Solving only one case with an authentic explanation may also be wrong from a legal and professional point of view, in particular as regards the principle of equality. In the Really Group – a new policy we believe that this issue needs to be addressed in an appropriate way because, as has been said, there are cases in practice where doctors are in a dilemma. However, we are not sure that this authentic interpretation would produce the desired results because it is narrowly targeted and could also be harmful in view of the current regulation and therefore we cannot support this proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a health act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. Mr. Contic, would you like to proceed procedurally? Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Group of Members, I have a procedural proposal. Let me begin by saying that the law to be dealt with today, namely the Health Act at first reading, was introduced into the parliamentary procedure on a proposal from the Government at a time when Mr Borut Miklavčič was acting as Minister of Health. During that time, the Minister resigned, and we received a new minister, and he remained in the procedure of the law that was proposed earlier. In the Group of Social Democrats, after consultation with other parliamentary groups, we estimate that it is necessary to allow some time for the quality preparation of this law, including the Minister and his team, to determine to this Act whether this law can still be amended to determine whether we agree with this concept of law and to prepare solutions that actually follow or match this concept. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, that, in accordance with Article 74, we postpone consideration and decision on this law to one of the future meetings. Let us take advantage of this time for the quality of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. You have heard the proposal in accordance with Article 74, first paragraph. Mr Kontič suggests, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the debate and decision on the proposal for a Health Action Act be moved to one of the following meetings. He wants to speak to the motioner. That's the government's representative, Minister? You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u58	Dear Members and Members! Health care is ahead of big challenges. The crisis that has plagued the whole world is passed on to health care with a slightly larger delay. Of course, both financial and long-term sustainability should be sought when assuming the responsible function. The orientations of the law were prepared in other times and directed towards large centralisation and regulation with regulations. Following the preparation of the first analyses and following the assessment of the orientations for the future, of course, together with the distinguished representatives of the coalition and all parliamentarians, I would like to convince myself that the true orientation of the health system is to make operators more autonomous, as this will meet the challenges we face today. I would like to join this proposal or appeal to a certain period of time. However, at this time, of course, in these financial circumstances, the issues of the Health and Health Insurance Act must also be drawn up and the two basic laws presented at least in the starting points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear, respectable coalition! The Pahor's government had already promised and put in place a programme in early 2009 that by the end of 2009, a health and health insurance law would be passed. Of course, the autumn of the year was then a broad debate on the preparation of the Health Act. This year, the Minister of Health visited us to prepare proposals for the Health Act. We prepared it, made extensive proposals, by the end of January – not one was taken into account later. In February, the Office of the Government of Law gave a catastrophic opinion on the proposed Health Act. The entire medical profession and the entire profession, which is supposed to be implementing the Health Act, held to the head, what kind of law it is, and in May you came up with such a proposal to postpone the treatment of the Health Act. At that time, we proposed that it was impossible to withdraw this law by the rules of procedure, that law had run into its procedure and that we should have a general discussion. You said, "No, we'll reconsider, we'll discuss it at the next session." He arrived in June, he came in July, and there is still no discussion. It would only be right to conclude that this draft proposal is inappropriate for further consideration and to release the possibility of a thorough preparation and a more coordinated approach. We also have another minister for whom a person would hope, since he was like an unwritten letter, he has never been a minister before, that we can expect him to approach these issues more wisely. But let us allow it to begin without burdening us with the impossible text ahead of us, to have a general discussion and to reject it. This will save us a lot of trouble with the amendment of this law, and in the fall we will probably find that it is unfit for further consideration and we will again suspend the whole procedure for 3 months. And instead of adopting this law by the end of 2009, we may or may not have adopted it by the end of 2011. Certainly not with such a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. First of all, procedural alert. I would like to ask the representatives of the groups to report their views on the agenda referred to in Article 64, paragraph 10. Any other parliamentary group would like to present their position? He doesn't want to. Does he wish to further substantiate this position of the applicant? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone the discussion and decision on the proposal for a Health Action Act to one of the following meetings. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 45. Against 13. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed proposal was adopted by the assembly and is therefore postponed to one of the following meetings. Before discussing item 3 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aviation Act, I inform you that at 10:30 you have received a report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aviation Act. I ask the Members whether it takes some time for them to study this report and then to table some amendments. If this is necessary, I would suggest a half hour break, but if it isn't, then we can move on. I'm guessing it's not. I'm guessing there's no need for that. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aviation Act under the Emergency Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the Government. There's no government representative, is there? There's no government representative, so he won't be able to attend, he's coming. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u62	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Following air safety checks carried out in the Republic of Slovenia, the European Commission has identified significant inconsistencies with Community rules on the production, permanent airworthiness and maintenance of aircraft, both for safety and for the proper functioning of the common market. Without amendments to the Aviation Act, it is not possible to remedy the irregularities identified and to ensure the required safety of civil aviation. We have examined several possible ways of organising aviation security, and in the end it has been pointed out that the most appropriate form is a public agency for which the powers and powers of officials are specifically determined by this law. In this regard, the provisions of the Control Act are also adapted to the requirements arising from the rules of the European Union. The main solutions are: the establishment of a public agency responsible for decision-making in administrative matters, continuous supervision, oversight of the implementation of air regulations and criminal procedures in the field of aviation security and security. Resources for funding the operation of the Agency are regulated, which are provided for general security tasks in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the tasks of certification and continuous supervision are financed by charging services at tariff. Furthermore, the powers of the Agency and of the Agency's officials are duly regulated. The control of the legality, efficiency and effectiveness of the Agency's work carried out by the Ministry of Transport shall be carried out in the same way as is provided for the supervision of the competent aviation of the EU Member States carried out by the Commission and the European Aviation Safety Agency. Furthermore, the provisions of the Control Act are adapted to the requirements arising from the rules of the European Union. This means that coordinated management of at least four types of processes is ensured, such as legal decision-making, continuous supervision, oversight of the implementation of air regulations and the conduct of criminal proceedings. Finally, a number of issues have also been addressed in this regard, such as the security management system and the state security programme, common rules for determining fees and similar issues, so that the Agency can carry out its tasks effectively and ensure aviation security. Amendments to the law affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia so that, despite the necessary increase in the number of staff in the Agency, budget expenditure will not increase and may even decrease gradually after a certain initial period. The increased costs of aviation security, as in other Member States of the European Union, will be covered by the revenues from tariffs, fees and costs to be paid by the debtors. The draft proposed solutions were also presented to representatives of the European Commission and the European Aviation Safety Agency as part of the elimination of identified air safety irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Janko Webr. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. At its 11th urgent meeting, held on 7 July, 12 July, and last but not least today, 15 July, the Transport Committee held a hearing on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Aviation Act, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Government on 21 June 2010. The government also proposed that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis, and the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 67th meeting on 22 June that we should consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act on an urgent basis. We also invited representatives of Adria Airways, Ljubljana Aerodrome, Maribor Aerodrome, Portorož Aerodrome and Air Traffic Control of Slovenia, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State, Dr Igor Jakomin, presented the reasons for amending and supplementing the draft law relating to the establishment and maintenance of a high level of civil aviation safety in the Republic of Slovenia. The additional objective in the areas governed by this Act is also to promote the cost-effectiveness and time-effectiveness of stratification procedures and to provide the Slovenian aviation industry with conditions for the free movement of goods, persons and services with other members of the European Union and to ensure uniform operating conditions for all actors on the Slovenian aviation market and their comparability within the European Union. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service drew particular attention to the main solutions relating to the establishment of a public agency and the amendment of the provisions on decision-making in administrative procedures, the control and management of air security offences. In addition, it found that the way in which those solutions were dealt with in the proposed provisions was relatively unclear, in particular in the part where the proposed regulation concerns procedural aspects and the determination of the powers of individual authorities. On the basis of such an opinion, the legislative and legal services formed amendments by SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS, following the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee has adopted all the amendments tabled by the groups of Members, and has also adopted its amendment to Article 40. During the discussion, the members of the Committee warned or discussed the provisions of the draft law relating to the establishment of a public agency. In this regard, they drew attention to the establishment of the Agency, given the fact that the establishment will require an increase in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. This was very exposed because of the already severe economic situation. They also questioned the fact that the law's proponents did not state as a priority the acquisition of agency funds for the charging of documents services to be issued by the Agency. In the course of the discussion, the representatives of the proposed law-maker explained the reasons for the establishment of an agency, which provides, last but not least, for the regulation of wage relations between pilots and supervisors, as the imbalance now in 1:3 is in favour of pilots, and thus, of course, the Agency would have the opportunity to obtain the necessary number of new staff to perform supervisory functions. While the burden of budgetary resources in 2011 is foreseen, it is anticipated that the Agency's own revenue will increase in the future and that this will relieve the pressure on state budget resources. After the discussion on the articles of the draft law and after the vote on the amendments tabled and the amendment of the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft law, which we are discussing at this moment, is thus prepared. On this occasion, I should also like to thank once again the members of the Committee for a constructive debate. In this way they have also allowed this law to be dealt with in a timely manner at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the government, fellow Members, fellow Members! When we adopted the last amendment to the Aviation Act in April 2009, by which we merely aligned the provisions of Article 128 of the current law with the decision of the Constitutional Court, we pointed out in the position of the LDS Group at the meeting of the National Assembly that the law in force no longer fully meets the challenges of time, since it was adopted in the longer term in 2001, that is, before Slovenia joined the European Union. In addition, our legislation in this area, despite the amendments adopted by the Aviation Act, differs to a certain extent from the acquis of the European Union. Although the Minister of Transport then announced major substantive changes in aviation regulation by the end of last year, which were unfortunately not achieved. However, the European Commission's ultimate demand was that by October 2010 Slovenia remove the inconsistencies identified by Community rules on production, constant airworthiness and maintenance of aircraft, both for safety and for the proper functioning of the common market. At a meeting with the European Commission, our Government has made a commitment to remove any discrepancies by that date, in particular with regard to the organisation of the supervisory authority of civil aviation, and to improve control between October and October with existing staff and additional staff in critical areas, and to continue to eliminate other inconsistencies identified. The removal of irregularities means, above all, that by this year's October, Slovenia must have a new, properly trained supervisory authority with a sufficient number of qualified officials, such as air controllers and other supervisors. Otherwise, in a simplified manner, all aircraft will be registered in the Slovenian aircraft register, the airworthiness of which is regulated by the rules of the European Union, and will remain grounded. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we regret, of course, that we are in a situation where, with the amendment under consideration, we have to establish a public agency in time to decide on administrative matters, to constantly monitor and monitor the implementation of the rules and procedures in the field of aviation security and security. The draft law stated to the Government that the main objective of the amendments and the addition of the aviation law is to establish and maintain a high level of civil aviation safety in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the claim is not the most logical, as we cannot establish and maintain high levels of security at the same time. It should therefore be understood in terms of implicit recognition that surveillance in civil aviation is not the best thing to do. This, for Slovenia's unpleasant fact, also illustrates the simple information. The supervisory authority of the Ministry of Transport is now carrying out the task of the Directorate for Civil Aviation with sixteen employees. The new public agency is expected to have 69 employees in the initial phase. The fact that, in addition to organisational reasons, the main reason for the establishment of a public agency is the inability to resolve the issue of salaries of air traffic controllers within the public sector, which shows its rigidity, rigidity, incapacity and which, due to the balance sheet, is unable to ensure the effective performance of the State in the specific labour market under the conditions of free movement of labour within the European Union. It is necessary to attach to the key findings of the new law that they are personnel, these are air traffic controllers, an essential element of aviation security, as only the pilot can operate with the aircraft, but can only be controlled by the same or higher qualified pilot, who also in Slovenia, under conditions of free movement of labour, has such a price that the state within the pay system is simply unable to pay. At the LDS Club, we will support the amendment of the law in the belief that it is also in this interim period until this October, when the Directorate for Civil Aviation improves control with existing staff and additional staff in critical areas and continues to eliminate other inconsistencies identified, ensuring a high level of civil aviation safety in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you. Janko Weber has the word on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The law under consideration eliminates inconsistencies with European civil aviation safety regulations identified in the inspection carried out somewhere between 2006 and 2009. In the parliamentary group, we are aware of the necessity of adopting the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act, since in the event of non-admission there would be exceptional economic damage, as it would significantly reduce overflight over Slovenian territory as well as the use of Slovenian airports, thereby causing great economic damage. However, it is also important to promote the cost-effectiveness and time-effectiveness of certification procedures and, in particular, of the Slovenian aviation industry, to ensure the conditions for the free movement of goods, persons and services with other EU members. Of course, the law also provides uniform operating conditions for all actors on the Slovenian aviation market. In addition to allowing for the expansion of the market for the Slovenian aviation industry and thus the consequent increase in economic growth in Slovenia, the economic law also has additional financial obligations, as users have so far paid only administrative fees and procedural costs and all other costs have been covered by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, this means that the possible operation of the Civil Aviation Agency, which is also a key solution to ensure a high level of civil aviation safety in Slovenia, will be financed mainly by fees and tariffs that take account of the weight of the aircraft, type of aircraft, number of engines, type of engines, etc. The establishment of the Agency will ensure the appropriate staffing composition of the security authority, which was also one of the main aspects of inspection and of the European Commission, and adequate payments by supervisors, which will be comparable, for example, with the salaries of pilots, will also provide greater interest in filling the aviation security gap. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware and also expect that the Agency's operating costs will be carefully planned and justified and, despite the increased number of employees in the Agency and their higher salaries, will not increase the budget expenditure of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, must not burden the economy disproportionately. As I have already said in the introduction, we will support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act, which the Government has forwarded to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure, will be supported by our own conscience in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Almost ten years old, a law to which the European Commission has begun to draw attention in 2006 and which has been drawn as the yoke of the snake. Members and Members received the content of the proposal on the bench, and here we have to point out the very complications that had actually begun at the very beginning of the consideration of the amendment proposal of this law, because the first call of the urgent meeting of the committee was postponed due to the meeting of the DZ, then it was interrupted because the amendments had not been delivered, although there was sufficient time, it was known which urgent things needed to be regulated, and then we Members and Members in two parts had actually come to the conclusion of the consideration of as many as 37 or 38 amendments, where it was necessary to point out that the proposal for amendments contained, in fact, the content of which, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, as well as in other groups, at least in public speaking, we do not agree in that part of saying that we are spreading in some way the national or public administration. This is where we have problems, because, with this amendment, additions are introduced to the establishment of an agency that will be empowered and regulate those areas that are urgently needed to enable aircraft to fly in international airspace. If there is a different opinion, then at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party we must express our dissatisfaction, especially when the Government sends important changes to the content of laws such as these, and does not ensure that Members and Members are able to follow this urgent procedure. And that's how we get involved in the procedures themselves. The saddest part is that almost most of the proposed amendments to the article need to be tabled in the context of the proposal. This was pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, which referred the applicants to the essential uncertainties of what it actually wants with the amendments. We can see that it is a matter of setting up a public agency that requires so many and so many officials that it is necessary to harmonise the wage ratios that are now unregulated, that some outdated models are to be amended on the basis of this law, which are essential for the updating of almost ten years of the old law. We are very sorry that we have not received a proposal for a new content of the law. This would avoid re-decision, as it is expected that the competent ministry will have to take a substantive approach to complete restoration or complete renovation of content that is not in line with time, space. It is precisely in the field of aviation that the situation has changed so much that they require an urgent comprehensive regulation of the aviation law. As we say, despite our concerns, and to avoid economic damage, we will make our own decisions. We are aware that the non-acceptance and non-regulation of this area would have resulted in the aircraft remaining grounded. But we know what that means in economic terms. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will therefore decide on the proposal for the content of the aviation law in accordance with their conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u71	Mr Aloise Potočnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you. Your Honor! The content of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the aviation law is in fact due to European legislation, which Slovenia must also introduce into its legal order. The main objective is to establish and maintain a high level of civil aviation safety in our country, to promote cost-effective and time-effective certification of procedures, to provide the Slovenian aviation industry with conditions for the free movement of services, persons and goods with other members of the European Union and to ensure uniform operating conditions on the Slovenian aviation market. The synchronisation of Slovenian legislation with European legislation, which will ensure proper implementation in these areas, is mainly covered in the following areas: competences and designation of the Agency, competences of individual bodies, management of the Agency's procedures, staff and qualifications of employees in the newly-increasing agency, control of the legality, efficiency and effectiveness of the Agency's work. At the time of the coordination, indeed, the Group of Members made some comments and improvements, which were properly implemented in the context of the law at a further stage. Our final comment, followed by the competent ministry, referred to the designation of the agency responsible for decision-making in administrative matters, control and criminal proceedings in the field of aviation security and security, and to the provision of appropriate resources and decisions of procedures that enable the performance of the prescribed tasks. We have also expressed some concerns about competence, as we have pointed out the limitations of its development and the independent conduct of its activities, since it is intended to carry out all procedures with the consent of the Ministry. At this point, we have highlighted the limitation of the expert body, namely the agency, in the field of certification and consensus-building, as it is supposed to be a rigorous professional agency, and therefore, according to our assessment, political or official interference with its operation would be inappropriate, which the Ministry has adopted and adequately complemented the subject matter of legislative amendments. Given the crucial importance of setting up a new agency, the distinction between the powers of the Ministry and the Agency should be meaningful and strictly defined, with which the proposer later strongly agreed. The aviation specification requires the appropriate qualifications and expertise of the staff. It is known that the current sub-nutrition in the field of aviation has a strong impact on the conduct of inspections and thus on ensuring security in civil aviation. In the Group of Members, we therefore hope that regardless of the so-called wage constraints, employees with extremely high responsibilities will carry out the prescribed tasks properly and thus ensure security in the field of Slovenian civil aviation. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that the competent ministry has joined the amendments and additions mainly to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The content that largely dictates the exercise of control, certification and, last but not least, the higher security of civil aviation is a difficult and, according to our assessment, a suitable solution. This is why we will support the content of the new aviation law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it has been shown that the conditions for the adoption of the law have not been met by an emergency procedure. The law is ready, is extensive, it is ready very quickly, as many comments from the Legal and Legal Service also show, practically, on all the articles of the bill. The main solution to the proposal is to re-establish one public agency and to amend the provisions on the decision-making of administrative procedures for the control and management of air safety offences. It would therefore be expected that the provisions would be clear, transparent and timely and that the proposed solutions would be substantively unclear, and that the deadlines for implementing the amendments and setting up an agency which had been improved by the amendments were also unclear. In our view, we should also adopt a new law on the provision of navigation services at the same time. Above all, we are not convinced by the explanation, because we do not believe that the creation of a new agency and the increase in salaries will suddenly ensure sufficient supervisors and security in aviation in this way. It is not clear at all which discrepancies and differences in aviation safety have actually been identified by the Commission of the European Union. Has the safety of air transport in Slovenia not been ensured so far? Furthermore, to what extent the Government intends to increase public and public administration. With a resolution adopted months ago on the national security strategy, the government has foreseen the establishment of three new offices, and is now re-establishing a new agency. Thirdly, does the Government consider that the current inspectors do not carry out their mission satisfactorily? Fourthly, whether it makes sense during the crisis, including the air traffic crisis, the aviation industry should impose an additional financial burden on it by 100 % of the tariffs to be financed by the Agency. Does this burden also apply to airlines and sports pilots, as funding of the Agency is envisaged at the expense of the provision of services, i.e. flight personnel, aircraft owners, airlines and production organisations. In particular, we would like an explanation of the article; for example, it makes no sense to add to Article 39 of the proposal how the air traffic controller – civilian or military – will maintain the necessary expertise and expertise if we have certain types of vessels in only two units, Adrie and the Slovenian Army unit, where control will normally not be allowed. Who's gonna control them? For example, in Article 41, the article thus written allows for the exemption to be obtained for all work at the expense of the budget and then for the Agency to leave. It should be specified that the conditions for exemptions are met. To whom is the 179th article of the proposed law written on the skin? In this and in the following articles, there are a number of proposals after exceptions, both in terms of salaries and educational conditions. Due to the need for the smooth functioning of the aviation sector and air transport and the aviation industry, we will not oppose the amendments and amendments to the aviation law, despite concerns and comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, we have been faced with a tendency since 2005 to improve the air transport system and to remedy some irregularities and to obtain an adequate number of qualified supervisors. To this end, the Ministry of Transport has drawn up a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act, which is being addressed by an emergency procedure. The reason for this consideration is the European Commission's requirements, which Slovenia must meet by autumn. If we do not remedy these irregularities, this will mean that all production organisation licences, aircraft airworthiness certificates, permanent airworthiness management licences, maintenance organisation licences, training organisation licences and aircraft maintenance licences will cease to apply. This would also mean that the Air Administration of the Republic of Slovenia does not operate in a prescribed manner or that the Republic of Slovenia has not established a regulatory authority for these aviation areas. Thus, the marriage novels ahead of us eliminate some of the irregularities that have been pointed out by the European Commission and its authorities for some time. At the same time, the main objective of the amendments and the addition of the aviation law is to establish and maintain a high level of civil aviation safety in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the amendment of the aviation law brings the newly established public agency in which supervisors would be employed. This agency will deal with aviation security, decide on administrative matters, carry out continuous monitoring of the implementation of the rules and criminal procedures in the field of aviation safety and security. The legal novelty will also provide adequate resources for the operation and financing of the Agency. In part, the agency will be financed from the state budget and partly from other sources such as air carriers and sources from Slovenia Control. This proposal also seeks to promote the cost and time-effectiveness of certification procedures, to ensure the conditions for the free movement of goods, persons and services with other Member States of the European Union and to ensure uniform operating conditions for all actors in the Slovenian aviation market and their comparability within the European Union. As has already been said, the main solution is the establishment of a public agency responsible for decision-making in administrative matters, continuous supervision and supervision of the implementation of regulations and criminal procedures in the field of aviation security and security, and the provision of adequate resources and the identification of procedures that enable the Agency to fulfil the prescribed tasks and obligations of the supervisory authority of a Member State of the European Union. As a rule, decisions in administrative matters and supervisory tasks may be carried out only by specially educated and qualified, experienced and authorised persons in accordance with the rules. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill, because we do not want to be co-responsible if our airspace is affected by the failure to comply with the European Commission's requirements. However, with each of the newly established public agencies, the office and everything that is pleasing to the President of the Government, there remains a bitter taste, as the Slovenian elderly are still without an office for the elderly, whose establishment is also enshrined in the coalition agreement and will obviously remain a letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u78	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda – the proposal for a declaration on the Western Balkans. As the amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. Miro Petek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Our Group of Members will not vote "in favour" or "against" because we believe that this declaration is too cumbersome and flawed. Three months ago, the Foreign Policy Committee should consider this declaration, but it was at the initiative of the coalition parties that the legal and legislative service found a series of inconsistencies in the text of the declaration from a constitutional and legislative and technical point of view. And, thank God, some corrections have been made, but given the short text of this declaration there have been many amendments, indicating that the text has been prepared very inconsistently and poorly. Unfortunately, the declaration does not mention the Slovenians who have remained outside the Republic of Slovenia after the break-up of Yugoslavia and live in some Western Balkan countries. These Slovenians, several thousand of them, both in Serbia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina and elsewhere, could be connected with the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately they are not mentioned in a word. Therefore, our Group of Members will not vote for or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors shall be given by the Victory of Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I have already said that our Group of Members will not vote for or against, because it is a one-stopper without tail and head. One thinks that it was written by Croats, but not by the Slovenian government, although it seems that we are always closer together and actually bothers me or surprises me that it is not written in Croatian after all, with all the variants of the novice, the present and the one from World War II. In short, we will not be either for, or against, because we do not want to rub hands with such products and with such matters to the detriment of Slovenia. When it was time, our government, no government so far, did nothing. Now that it's too late, we'd be showing how they want to do something. Let them do something good for the country and the best for them to step down.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Janja Klasinc has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u83	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Our Group of Members will, of course, support this declaration. It will support it for a simple reason because in the last 20 years the Republic of Slovenia has previously withdrawn and fled the Western Balkans. Above all, the policy has been focused on how the whole of Europe and the world will show how we have nothing to do with this area. Now things have changed. The Declaration cannot be concrete. The Declaration is a declaration, it's not an action program. And that is why there are only the main directions in it, we think they are right, so we think that cooperation and assistance to the countries of the Western Balkans in their integration into European integration and other international organisations is only for the benefit of Slovenia, not for the sake of harm, so we will support this declaration, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the end of the 25th item of the agenda – this is the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 178 of the Penal Code, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 55/08, 66/08, correction, 39/09 and 55/09. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 178 of the Penal Code shall not be adopted. France Tsukati has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. There is a conflict of interpretation, in practice there is a non-synchronous attitude towards the doctor's duty, how when a patient refuses a life-altering intervention, it is, at the same time, unconscious on the operating table and similar how to act. The Penal Code says that a doctor who, contrary to his professional duty, does not help a patient or anyone else who is in danger of life is punished by imprisonment. However, the Law on Patients’ Rights states that in any case it must respect the patient’s will, which has been clearly expressed. Because not only among judges but also among the Supreme Judges and also among the professors of criminal law, there is a position that the judiciary will act in such a case if the patient died because the doctor did not provide him with emergency assistance, even though the patient refused it when he could still do so to be punished under the penal code. For this reason, we have tabled a proposal for an authentic explanation in which we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on its interpretation of the Penal Code. We believe that this opinion is very good, but that opinion is not binding on the judiciary. And precisely because the interpretation of a certain article is being interpreted, the policy explains one thing about the meaning of the criminal code, and the profession and practice differently, a short-term authentic explanation needs to be adopted. The authentic explanation is intended for this. For this reason, we will be against such a decision, because we want the matter to go into procedure, it will be completed in accordance with the Legislative and Legal Service and this dilemma will be resolved briefly in order to avoid the problems that patients and doctors face in key emergencies.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 27. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the procedure for the acceptance of the authentic interpretation is terminated. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act as part of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up an officially consolidated text of the Aviation Act. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Small Work Bill. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a small work law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. No Member voted against by 71 Members. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 71.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft labour market law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a labour market regulation law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. In favour of vote 76, no one voted against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Moving on to agenda 22 this is to the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Centre of South-Eastern Europe for the Detection and Prosecution of Crimes The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendment at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. In favour of vote 76, no one voted against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the draft law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. In favour of the 77th, no one voted against. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 27th item of the agenda, which is on Mandate-Voluntary matters. The National Assembly dealt with election cases on Friday, 9. Seven. 2010 and terminated. As I have not received any additional requests by the time the point continues, I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 13. Seven. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. However, since the amendment to Article 7 was adopted for the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the parent working body, the proposal of the law became inconsistent and the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 36, which you received on the bench. I give the floor to the Government's representative on the harmonisation amendment. The Secretary of State has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u87	Hello! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! It is therefore a harmonisation amendment relating to Article 36, which states only that paragraph 6 is deleted and paragraph 7 becomes paragraph 6, which is related to the amendment adopted to Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? Please This is an amendment debate. [[...]] Anyone want to discuss the harmonisation amendment? I find that no, so I am closing the debate on this amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 51. No one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Embassy is given by Jakob Preseknik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have already voted against this law in our second reading. The main reason is that there is only one reason, and this is the abolition of the state pension. We have already, and I personally, on the committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly, repeatedly stressed the error we are making in the abolition of the state pension, and we reiterate the serious consequences of such a decision. The state pension was introduced, I think, 10 years ago, as a major contribution to improving the social situation of many people in Slovenia. This state pension is abolished for some 16,000 beneficiaries, those who in the past were unable or even prevented or were not adequately insured by any provision or by any kind of pension policy. Nowhere has it ensured that everyone who loses a state pension will be entitled to any social benefit under the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Also, the information that some 500 people are expected to receive social benefits from the current 16,000 state pensions is of course a source of concern. Since we do not have any assurance that the law will not cause new injustices, we cannot and cannot support it as a parliamentary group and as individuals in the parliamentary group. We will vote against this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levacič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to say that in this law, which also governs the rest of the areas, it is important to stress that this moment the National Assembly is adopting with this law certainly more than 10,000 new scholarships; many times in this debate on the law on small work and the situation of students, we have witnessed some evidence that I am a small work law, but it is necessary to ensure the conditions for students to be able to study. These conditions are, of course, to provide scholarships. It's the law that makes this happen. Not only does the National Assembly, if this law were to be passed today, raise the price to obtain a grant from 300 euros per family member to 600 euros per family member, which is a 100% increase. Despite the times of crisis, we were able to bring such a law to the National Assembly, which will give our students more scholarships so that they can study so that they can devote more time to study and not work while studying. To remind you, if this law is adopted, it will enter into force in 2011, which is before the Small Work Act, which is very important. So go ahead with the scholarships and then the Small Work Act. The Group of Social Democrats will therefore support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-15-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 49. Against three. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 19th meeting of the Assembly. Have a nice holiday if you want. At the same time, I inform you that the Committee on Economic Affairs in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič starts its meeting four hours after the assembly. I'll see you tomorrow, Friday, 9:00. Thank you very much.
