ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Anton Urh, Mag. Branko Grims, Villa Trofenik, Roberto Battelli, Tadej Slapnik, Franc Jurša, Janko Weber and Mag. Andrej Vizjak. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik, to the 30th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 21st meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the sitting of 8. Ten. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and Youth proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 21st session should be extended by considering the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the rules on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for enlargement is contrary to paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the National Assembly will therefore not discuss this proposal or vote. For the same reason, the assembly will not discuss and vote on the proposal of the Health Committee, which proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 21st session be extended by considering the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph in conjunction with paragraph 41 (b) of Article 41 of the Medical Services Act. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received with reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 21st meeting of the assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – THIS IS ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from 35 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, Dr. Igor Lukšić, Minister of Education and Sport, from 15.45 onward, Samuel Žbogar, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Dr. Roko Žarnic, Minister of Environment and Space from 20.30 on. You have also received a review of the questions sent, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. As we say, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question will be asked first by Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much and very nice greetings to everyone! Mr. President, I want to know: How does the government control the operation of our largest bank, the New Ljubljana Bank? As we see, it is necessary to give some money all the time to cover some losses, poor business, various rewards, such as Mr Kramar, a million euros that he has been working poorly in the bank. We've saved the bank once with the money of all of us. Now, it looks like we're gonna have to do it again. First, €400 million and €200 million were said. Actually, you don't even know. How does this bank work? He doesn't seem to have any control. Take the example of a brewery in Tuzla. There is almost 20% of the owners of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. This brewery's dealing with the minus. In the last year, there has been a loss of 2 million euros. It is interesting that despite the fact that there is such a great loss and the fact that Nova Ljubljanska Banka has given Pivovarna in Tuzla EUR 5 million of money, capital, turnover in cash, of course our representatives do not go to the various things I know, the assembly of the Pivovarna Tuzla Stock Company. Our representatives, who are 20% owners, do not care what happens to the money the Slovenian state gives to Tuzlo. As it appears, some small shareholders say that these millions were actually loaned to the owner of Mr Hilm Selimović, who owns the Sarajevo brewery and also owns companies that supply raw materials in Tuzla at significantly higher prices than those in the open market. One wonders why, how, whether someone will answer, whether what continues all the time will continue. In Slovenia, many can be stolen, many cheats are made by laws, and no one gets hurt. If someone says something wrong, they will remove it with the help of the police, shut it down, beat it, listen to it all, and absolutely disable it both on the political floor and on the normal floor of life. Please, if you can at least answer me in a frame of reference.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u5	I would be happy to answer that question, honourable Member. Also because it seems to me that the public needs to be somewhat clearer, including in simple words, and therefore slightly more superficial, explain what it means, in fact, if the state is the majority owner, say the New Ljubljana Bank, rather than the only system bank within the Slovenian banking system. First of all, let me not forget to say, the supervision of the operation of the company, even in this case of the New Ljubljana Bank, regardless of the fact that the State is the majority owner, does not directly exercise ownership, but carries out control council. And supervisors are not obliged to explain their decisions and are not responsible for their decisions to shareholders, as the public thinks wrong, but to society. The government does not have this opportunity to call, say, those members of the Supervisory Board that it appointed as a shareholder in this society to give them instructions. He doesn't have a chance. They are autonomous in their decisions and are therefore responsible for compensation. Therefore, wrong conclusions are being drawn too quickly in the public if, and as far as the State will be the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, the government will be able to direct its policy more directly. That's not true. The government can't run this policy even if it wants to. Not only because of corporate law, but also because it is regulated so that supervisors are accountable to society and not to shareholders. The Supervisory Board has taken a decision on the recapitalisation, you ask, honourable Member. And you're asking essentially how the government will react to that. Tomorrow we have a working meeting of this kind, we will probably continue to decide on this issue at the government's meeting on Thursday. The decision is not that simple, and we need to study thoroughly all the possibilities ahead of us. Why am I saying that again? Because I do not want the public to misinterpret that when the Slovenian government retains, if it decides to do so by its decisions, the National Assembly, the State, its majority share in the NLB, then directly governs the policy through it. No, no, no. We need to clear this up. Therefore, we also have clearly defined responsibilities for the members of the Supervisory Board. They are responsible to society, not to shareholders, but we can communicate with our views what the Government's expectations are as one of the owners, one of the shareholders. That's all we can do. The decision of the Government regarding the recapitalisation will be communicated to the public once the Government has taken the decision. For now, we know the decision of the Supervisory Board. This decision was taken on a recapitalisation of 250 million. And the public may wonder whether the state is paying off the budget, namely from Balance B, to recapitalise the bank, which we have already recapitalised, say, and rehabilitated, or instead of giving the money out of the pockets of taxpayers for recapitalisation, we are looking for or looking for a new partner, which means that the state loses a majority share, although it can otherwise maintain control over its strategic orientations. That is why this question is an absolutely legitimate question and not only must we ask it, but we must also ask it. You are a government, and when we give that answer, we will also convey it to this high assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have actually replied to me that the state does not control the bank, which means that taxpayers are giving money to someone who can spend it, as it does, with his left hand, with his right hand, gives loans or gifts to people who are weathered, and maybe then they get some more interest in their pockets. Each owner has the right to request an answer to where his money goes, if he is in a company, in a company of shares, every owner. But if the state is the owner, then the state has the right, not just the right, the state has the duty to demand answers. And as I can see, there's a 'no, we don't, we can't, it's not our business... "How is it not our business? How come it's not about the government? Of course, it is the government's business, but it is the money of all people who are struggling to live, and now they will get another 250 million-euro portion, which they will have to give, but it would be better if we had to give it to the Greeks instead of giving it to the Greeks to put it in our bank if it was already there. But what's the point? Nobody's answering, the money's being distributed, and the money's being thrown around. Undisputed fact. I can give you the papers, the records and everything from this tutelage bank, and you'll see what a mess this is. Apparently, EUR 5 million went somewhere here, but no one can ask. Yeah, how is that possible? We're a totally lost country! Go to America and say, "No, the owner has no right to ask." They're gonna take you out! And never again. That's not how you do it in the country with the money of all of us. If this is your private money and you don't care where this money goes, it's your business. This is a matter for all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u9	As it is said, it is right to say very clearly to all taxpayers that the possible majority share of the State in the New Ljubljana Bank does not mean that the business policy of this bank is governed by the state. Corporate law, or by law, is such that the supervision of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank, despite the fact that the State is the majority owner, is carrying out a supervisory council which is autonomous in this regard. Let's look at the example, this is now an example of an X that no one is going to make the wrong conclusions. We have a case. [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u10	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u11	Can I? [[...]] We have an example of a company that can get in the way of serious business problems if it is not granted credit, say, the New Ljubljana Bank, and thus loses the business of thousands of people. However, the bank and its professional management consider that there is no guarantee for such a loan, and it would be possible to grant credit to the detriment of this company. What is the right decision, and who is responsible for it? The decision is the hands of the administration and the supervisors. Of course, the Government and we, the country and the common, want to be able to solve the problems of the company I mentioned. Is it because of this ambition that this company might not be in trouble, that we should have any impact on the business decisions of the New Ljubljana Bank? We can't. That's what I've been trying to explain to the public all along. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u12	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u13	No, no lobbying. There's a false belief here. And you can see from the management and supervisors of the Ljubljana Bank how many times have I or my colleagues had a conversation with them? [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] What's wrong with the mail?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u14	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u15	What I'm trying to say is that this is a decision that we need to judge a whole series of things, and it's not simple. But it seems too simple for the public to jump to a superficial conclusion. One of the two options at this particular point will have to be considered and considered very wisely. We will act as conscientious masters. That's all I can say on behalf of the government on the matter that is before Thursday's government meeting. We will act as conscientious masters.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr. Jelinčič, do you have a procedural question or proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has said that you will act conscientiously in the future because you have not acted conscientiously so far. Surveillance is one thing, it's business control, but the demand for answers is another thing. And the answers must be given in every normal society in the world. The money that the shareholders have given, whether direct small shareholders or shareholders through the NLB state, must be used transparently, not for various private options, as is the case here. That is why I would also like to make this procedural proposal. Fortunately, we will not now have to pay for Croatian NLB savers, because it is said that the sky has now opened up and it has all become clear, although this was clear in 1994 when the Croatians passed the law adopting the debts of this bank in Croatian territory. And now we have discovered warm water and, on the other hand, we have had to recognise only what has been known to the Croatians, in fact, to remove all reservations about the entry of Croatia into the European Union. I think that this matter concerning the Ljubljana Bank is necessary to discuss it here in the National Assembly, to clarify matters that may in fact be required to fulfil the promise that Mr Kramar will return the million euros he received for the prize for, as we have seen later, the very poor operation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Unless we accept this as the fact that those who do wrong are rewarded, those who cheat and those who steal. This is now a sledgehammer in Slovenia. Unfortunately, it's a sledgehammer in Slovenia and I don't know how long it's gonna take until it steals everything that's left. The rest is not enough anyway. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I ask that we vote in one of the following days to open the debate on this subject in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of President Borut Pahor to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 October 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Zvonko Černač of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u19	Dear Prime Minister, at the previous meeting, I asked you about the political-Clientalist connections that go all the way to your office. I continue because we have not received the perfect answers. Unilateral political colour and accessibility to the best-paid positions only to politically oriented elites, regardless of their expertise and competence, as well as to state affairs, has grown to extremes during your reign. A few days ago, a blanket slipped from the government bed, KAS, the Human Resources Accreditation Council, where the conflict between coalition partners seemed to make it very hot. Political-economic elites have gained exceptional economic political power and immunity in the past two years. Let's just look at one case. Mr Danilo Toplek, who is a longtime senior, could be said to be the CEO of Taluma, a state-owned company, the High Representative of the Social Democrats, is the President of the New KBM Supervisory Board. Some time ago, the media discovered that he was a silent participant in a private company operating with a state-run company and that he was not to pay even the euro for that share, and now he is worth a few million euros. This wasn't the only case. It was found that Mr Danilo Toplek was also the third owner of the private company Vesol, which had built a solar power plant on Talum’s state land, and that third-party owners were also the son and daughter of the President of the Bank’s administration, which is related to business in Talum and the Bank’s factor, together with other companies, is controlled by ACH or the former President of the National Assembly, Mr Herman Rigelnik. By the way, the son of the CEO of the Bank Factor is now the one who runs the temporary administration in Mercury. Your party's High Representative, therefore, used the position as Director of the State Enterprise primarily to take care of his private business. We would expect your unequivocal public invitation to his resignation. We don't even know if it's a lonely case. How many such silent associates are there from your and other ruling parties who use the situation in state-owned companies for private business? What, then, will you do to prevent such a relationship from taking advantage of the situation in a private private society, obviously under the express patronage of a ruling policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u21	We will do everything in our power. [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u22	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u23	The government will not forget to answer your question, then I would like to add some things to the proposal that the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the State which will issue the Enterprise Management Code should recommend that the Code also include the incompatibilities of the management or control of one legal person with the function of silent partner in another legal person, if these two legal persons operate together. This is one of the answers to your questions. Second answer. Kas caused a lot of excitement in the Slovenian public, as well as ridicule and criticism, that, as you said, it was a disguise. In fact, he's been very angry with runaway lobbying channels, especially always coalition parties. To a large extent, he disciplined government parties and the appetites of people who support them or otherwise stand behind their policies in order to decide through their human resources influences on government decisions. I think Cass has done his job well. If I made one more decision, in the situation we were in and the other options we were not really in right now, once again, with the help of my colleagues and colleagues, I would decide to set up a body that, to the extent possible, without offense, would disrupt the tradition of coalition party appetites in terms of human resources policy. Kas has them to a large extent, not entirely. I can't declare victory here, but I can't say defeat. I still think that we have done a lot of things here in the direction of what the OECD expects of the country in terms of autonomy in the appointment of people. Even in limiting other influences, we have done a great deal, and we must all look forward to some success together, and always together with you, I will say, to find dissatisfaction if there is an abuse of power, if there are also called authorities, the institutions of the rule of law, to react, not only politically-arbitrary. Mr. Member, when do they react, they are obliged to act on their official duty? So, once again, as Prime Minister of the Government, I have been in the position since the first day and today that, to the extent possible transparently, it is necessary to regulate the responsibility for appointments to certain positions, to know who is responsible, and to limit any influence on these decisions that are not covered by responsibility. That's essential. I think we've taken one step further here, but I'm not happy because I think we can make it even bigger. And we'll try to move on here. But some of the experiences we've had in two years are good. If the president of one such body, such as Kas, can make public criticism after two years, and it is right to say about the bad and perhaps some good experience, but the bad ones are slightly more heard, this is something new in Slovenian politics. There is something new about Slovenian politics! So the institution set up by the Government was autonomous to the extent that it spoke about its work, what was wrong and what was not. And that gives us some mandate for the future. I'm saying we didn't make it. But we're going in the right direction and we're going in the right direction. This was also confirmed by the OECD. At this time, we have become members of the OECD, dealing with corporate governance. Not all problems are solved. Here I can give you my political assurance that, as far as it is in my power and in the power of my powers, I will do my utmost to ensure that those who have no responsibility will not have the opportunity to make decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u25	Dear President, I mentioned Cass by the way. But don't talk about coverage, please read the interview with the recent president of this Kas, Mr. Kovac. The STA says, "As an expert cover for the government's political decisions," those are his words, and I came out of those words. You appointed him to this position, not the Blackbells and not the opposition. You haven't answered my specific questions. I have asked you about the specific case of Mr Danil Toplek, I have provided a number of information on this particular case, and I must say that the public expects clear answers, not lax answers. The public wants to know how it is possible that this government, which is supposed to be regarded as a social democracy, is the most fragile by the rights of those who have the least, and offers strong support to those who have become rich on the backs or the stings of the poor. We read in the media days ago that Mr Ivan Zidar is the best-paid director in the state of SCT. Last year, when you convinced the public that it was a crisis and that it was necessary to seal the belt, it earned almost EUR 800,000 and EUR 2175 a day. Weeks and holidays included. We are therefore listening to the cross-response regarding the disclosure of various networks, including with regard to the network of Directors of the Talum of Mr Danil Toplek, a prominent member of the SD. By the way, the judicial proceedings initiated in the PTA do not move anywhere due to these socio-friendly relations. We also read that recently Mr Franci Križanič, your Minister of Finance, and Drago Isajlović, formerly or still counsellor of this minister, former SDV. Where do these networks go, Prime Minister? That's what I'm asking you. The public rightly doubts that this is happening over or without your knowledge. What, then, will you do to clear up your doubts?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u27	Once again, I tell you that I will do everything possible and whatever is in my power and that they are called here, and also on official duty, to take care of the competent authorities, Mr Member. You can't, and I don't think that's good either. You can't ask the President of the Government or the ministers to be arbitrary in these judgments. If and how much I'm going to react, and I already have, don't worry about it. My colleagues in the party are worried a lot, not you. We have gone so far in consistency on human resources policy in this country. This case will also be investigated according to law and will receive his epilogue. Surely this government is not a government that seeks to make sure that those who live well live even better, and those who live badly live even worse. This is neither our aim nor our goal nor our doing so, but we are trying to burden layers and generations during this crisis by roughly bearing the right burden of this exit from the crisis. It's my vision, and that's how we try to do it, not without, of course, again slips I am and there, but unwanted. I'll tell you again, there are no networks of groups, lobbying that would [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u28	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u29	Please! had this influence on the government. [[...]] They're gone. Not that I know of. As in any society, as in every democratic society, of course, everyone can try, this is his democratic right, to impose his influence on anything, for any political idea or for anything else. The point is, however, that they are concerned that the law is not exceeded, Mr Member. And that's what we do. And the government will continue this way and will take into account the experiences we have learned in two years of our work, good and bad. The cash was, in my opinion, a sumarum, a good decision, not a great one, but a good one. He went in the right direction. And it will be necessary to continue to see whether the Agency for the Management of State Capital Shares is sufficient to give limits that limit appetites, not only to customers, but also to lobbyists and everything that belongs to a democratic society. It's not illegal. But instead of those who are called upon and have official responsibilities, they must not decide for us. That's essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u31	I regret that this doubt, which has been raised, has not been overturned in these replies. In view of the interconnectivity of these networks and the fact that these networks reach into the Prime Minister's office itself. But that doubt was further strengthened. I therefore propose that, on the basis of the reply of the President of the Government, a debate be held on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on this response, because it is clear that Slovenia is increasingly intertwined with social and capital networks that do not always work for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. In recent years, these networks under the patronage of the ruling policy have been greatly strengthened and a new impetus has been put in place. They go to the highest pores of government. Examples of this are quite a few. In some cases, as you can see, it is not possible to suspend supervisors overnight, in other cases this is not possible, because they are members of a dedicated party who is being held by Social Democrats in this particular case. In one case, it was possible to use the phone more than once and call the former Chairman of the NLB administration and ask him to pay back the allegedly unjustifiable million euro prize he should not have earned. In these cases, when it comes to a long-standing member of the Social Democrats, obviously visible, and obviously otherwise capital-related to that party, such a telephone call could not be used. More. The networks that take place in the court of Taluma are so strong that they reach out through these links, which I mentioned earlier, to the avian court, where the Vice-President of the Court of Justice, Danil Toplek, the sister, pardon, reaches out to the prosecution, where the head of the Prosecutor's Office is the partner or the wife of the High Representative of the former Technical Director of Tallum, that is, the right-hand man of Mr Toplek, reaches into individual banks, as Mr Toplek is still the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, dating to Mercury, where the country is very much involved in the resolution, in contrast to another company that left him dead. In short, the consecrated elites, apparently under the patronage of the highest political leadership, are over the rules in force in the rule of law, controlling this Slovenia and strengthening the parastatia that should be eradicated as soon as possible. Last but not least, the Prime Minister himself confirmed this when he did not give clear answers to the specific questions, to the things that have been published in the media with specific data, including the documents, and also to those that concern them are not denied, but confirmed. It is also unusual that the Minister of Finance in some inn age with this gentleman and with the former [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 October 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Franz Bogovic of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u33	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president, distinguished ministerial assembly, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Before a good year and a half in March 2009, at the 4th regular meeting of the National Assembly, I asked you, reading a copy of the magnetogram, "do you agree with the following statements: that it is now a good time for individual energy decisions to first form a strategic reflection within the Energy Council on the further development of energy and to write it in the form of a strategic document, such as the amendment of the energy programme? Secondly, we also have an open debate on this document in the National Assembly, where we talk about it and make certain decisions. Thirdly, on the basis of such a strategic document, decisions are taken on further steps in Slovenian energy, which means that the validation of guarantees for individual investments and the possible reorganisation of the Slovenian electricity system would be carried out only after the consideration and adoption of the national energy programme in the National Assembly". In response, the honourable Prime Minister of the Government assured me the following. Again, a copy of the magnetogram, 'we will accelerate the preparation of all documents so that it can be spoken of by the profession and ultimately by policy. We will have our first discussions in the framework of a national or strategic energy council. The Ministry of Economy will prepare the first proposals for these decisions, we will consult within this Council, within the Government, certainly within the framework of the professional public, and not least in the National Assembly. So, before we take decisions, they will be subject to consultation and exchange of views in this High Council." Dear Mr. President of the Government! Last week we learned from the media about the Minister of Economy's intention to propose at the government's meeting the addition of Gen energy to the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants and thus de facto abolish the second energy pillar in Slovenia. This is despite your assurance that all decisions will be subject to prior strategic consultation in the professional public and within the National Assembly. I'm asking you: What are the reasons why he should hurry with individual moves before the development strategy of Slovenian energy is agreed? Why is he in a hurry to make decisions without discussing the various arguments for individual decisions? What effect will these ad hoc decisions have? Why are we persistently avoiding a transparent debate in Slovenia on the functioning and development of the energy sector, which, last but not least, affects the amount of the monthly electricity bill for households and has a fatal impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy? Dear Prime Minister, I ask: What leads the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this irrational decision? What is your view of the Minister of Economy Darje Radic and Coalition Zares, who obviously takes over all financial, human, development and investment flows in the field of energy?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u34	Procedurally, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I think we should not allow manipulative questions, questions that are not questions, but serve [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u36	Procedural proposal, Mr. Kek!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u37	10 minutes ago Mr Černač had 3 minutes to explain his procedural question. Please let me do the same. So the question served to be suggested as the fact that he really wants to have an energy review. The fact is that two members of Really have been suspended from the HSE Supervisory Board since four, and not one has been appointed in the new. By going through the Kassa procedure. Of course, it is normal to call this government and the Minister in charge of energy will not appoint a minister in charge of Slovenians around the world. The merger of the two pillars was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u38	Mr. Kek, procedural proposal, please! It's a substantive matter. Please make a procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u39	Please don't allow manipulative questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not take this proposal into account. Please, Mr. Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u41	First of all, with regard to this controversy and my role in answering the questions of the Members. I think it is right to ask all the Members' questions and then the President of the Government answers them the way he thinks. And you're assessing whether he answered right or wrong, whether he said everything he knew or didn't, whether he was right or wrong. And in this sense, I have always been a proponent of a democratic debate and I am still. I am not saying that we have reached the angelic level of not involving parties in human resources decisions. However, I say that we have significantly limited the appetites of ruling parties when it comes to the decision of the Government, because it is within the power of the Government. This is the first thing that concerns your question that you mentioned at the end. Now for the most important. No decision has yet been taken on the merger of the two pillars. And I'm gonna hold on to my word, and I'm gonna hold on to it. You know that the minister has everything she needs for this, I'll say, not just the right, but the duty to tell her what her aspirations are and what she thinks is good. Then the government decides. But before that, as Prime Minister of the Government with all other responsibilities, honourable Member, last week not only did I protocolly welcome the Energy Assembly in Brdo pri Kranj, I listened to their conference and finally responded to their views. This is the first thing about my promise to respect the debate in the professional public. On Wednesday, we have a strategic council with the Government on this issue and we want to explore the opportunities we have. These are two: whether we stay with the current two pillars or go to one. And it is necessary for all to have some key arguments for one or the other decision. Is that right? Hold it! So let's go as I promised, and please tell me that I'm holding on to my promise. Not always, because, as it is said, no one is perfect, but here first is a professional discussion, there is a public debate, we are going to a strategic world, we may come even before, and I see that this is an important issue, and I am paying him a lot of attention myself, Europe is giving him a lot of attention. This is about energy sovereignty, a whole series of issues that are related to it. And I think we're doing relatively well on some things, but I wouldn't read the answer the Ministry has given me on the achievements of energy policy. The key question is whether we will have in the future, what you are interested in, two pillars or one pillar. Nothing's been decided yet. We're going along the lines that I've described, professional public, lay public, interested public. And once again, circle back to the professional and political level and there will be a proposal for a decision that we may discuss before the adoption of the Government here in the National Assembly. It won't be the first time in this term we've done this. So calmly, this decision is important, I am aware of this, and arguments need to be weighed, the Strategic Council and then the other competent institutions are already on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u42	Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u43	First of all, those who interfered with this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u44	Complementing the answer, that's all that's possible, all the other things I do, make sure I don't stay with you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u45	Those who step on the tail answer, those were the words of the minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u46	Bogovic, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u47	I want a supplement to the question. First time. Last year we spoke here at a meeting, first in the parliamentary question and in March at a meeting. And we're talking about a very serious question. I am convinced that the second pillar in the Slovenian space has shown that in fact brought some refreshment to the colossal energy space, where there was a lot of innovative approach also in a society owned by the state. And this means a lot for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, for the competitiveness of households, after all, one quarter of electricity pays the public sector, and in the context of savings in the public sector, we have gained something by doing so. The next very important step. I wouldn't just say that, but it was a clear intention, the minister is here, said last week that last week or no later this week it would be in the government. That's why we wanted to talk to those who think that in some way we've been in the space that we've been pumping coal for two centuries first, in the middle of World War II, we've built a thermal power plant, and in the seventies, we've put a nuclear facility, in the '90s hydro power plant, in the last few months, we've placed a landfill. The professional public has proven that we are able to manage and manage these facilities, and now, overnight, such a call comes after a single ad hoc decision. I'm sure this is the wrong way. We want to actively participate in and underestimating and humiliating words and insult those who say that this is about cleaning up with some local lobbying. The local lobby in this case is 70,000 people who have decided that it is capable of accepting facilities, that it is also able to manage these facilities, and we have accepted such words by the government representative in our space as a great insult, and I think this is wrong. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. If you want to answer, it wasn't a proposal, but please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u49	At the same time in the same room, we are talking about lobbying as an integral part of democratic society and we are obliged to respect them, but to be careful that they do not take over the power they do not have. On the other hand, on the other hand, on the average, it is critical that they are doing exactly what they are doing to you to run the country instead of ministers and governments. I mean, at the same time, we hear two very different approaches about how we should, in a democratic society, provide an opportunity for everyone to say what they think and, on the other hand, exercise responsibility for the one who finally takes the decision. I told you, Member, what I intend to do. Let the fact that the Government is at the meeting not upset, we have important decisions at the government meeting, such as the NLB strategy, which may be at the government meeting twice, three times, and then postpone decisions if we believe that they have not matured the arguments for one or the other decision, if they are not inevitable. So I tell you again, this is a matter for discussion. And as I understand it, on Wednesday, when, say, the Strategic Council discusses this, which is really plural, then we will see if any pre-parliamentary or other form of political or professional debate is needed to weigh the arguments. Let me tell you again, maybe this is the answer to another question that was held today in this National Assembly. As Prime Minister of the Government, I am not a prisoner of any lobby, I am not representing any network, I am the president of one of the parliamentary parties, this is also normal in parliamentary democracy, but this does not mean that the party is leading the government. I run it, and I'm responsible for her work, good and bad. And other parties, which are coalition parties, as usual in parliamentary democracies, have their own policies. However, this does not mean that any of them have more or less influence on the decisions of the Government beyond the powers of my colleagues and colleagues. I'm not saying that any of this may not be the way you want it to be, there's still a lot to be done here. But please do not let any wrong view prevail in this Slovenia, that there is a group of people here who have the sole interest in justifying expectations or fulfilling any tasks of a group of people, or lobbyists, or individuals, and taking care of the wealthy. That's not true. We have other ambitions and other concerns, and we are committed to this, even when it comes to these issues. We will try to find some answer that will be good for the Slovenian economy, not for one or them lobby. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Bogovich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u51	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I believe that a debate should be held in the National Assembly. Last year it was promised in this place, this summer it is expected to take place and the national energy programme is expected to be adopted. It's supposed to be accepted by the government by the summer of the National Assembly. None of this has happened. Given that many decisions have been announced to come true this year because none of these documents are available, I think that this debate is absolutely necessary. This debate should also be held in this light, as Slovenia has come into very strange waters from last February to today in the area of individual investments. Today we read the words of the Director of the Energy Directorate that the biggest investment that is being made in Slovenia today is a classic example that must never be repeated again. That is why I think it is right for the National Assembly to talk about a national project such as energy. , because I fear that, in repeating such stories, we will at some point stop our most vital energy projects because I fear that the National Assembly and the State of Slovenia will not be large enough to guarantee individual projects. And at some point, I think there's a lot of fear that we're going to start thinking about selling Slovenian energy as well. I am talking about, Madam President, that there is a need to guarantee certain facilities in this room. And in view of the discussion that took place in the general public in Slovenia, given the situation of the Republic of Slovenia, which in these two years is half as much due as it has been in the past, given that in Europe they are on a journey of carbon-free technology, and that we are looking for guarantees for another facility, I am afraid that in the end we will end up with you, I will be very direct, from hydropower plants to nuclear power plants all so that this investment can be carried out today, if you read it in Youth, the director of the Directorate Mr. Janez Copač will assess for one of the biggest stupidities that has happened. That's not what I'm saying. I am sad that nothing has happened since last January, when I gave this warning with great responsibility, except that last year there were 25 million commitments already made at this investment. I'm afraid we're at 200 to 300 million now, to the extent that there's potential damage, and the government has not yet identified itself for this project. It's not a basic problem. All energy is a problem, so I want the National Assembly to speak at the next meeting in accordance with the procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Franz Bogovic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 October 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Welcome to the President of the Government and to all ministers and ministers! In the introduction, first of all, you are commending the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia for its truly excellent participation, and you are all proving together that you are taking the instrument of sent questions and initiatives seriously. My question, Mr Prime Minister, relates to the problems related to the valuation of real estate. There have been some confusion and problems in this system. We blame many of these issues on our own citizens and citizens. We haven't been up to date in decades and years. In order to address these problems, an instructional period was also set for November 25th, and as a stimulus or a quicker path to the goal, financial penalties were prescribed for natural and legal persons who are not so small at times. We are pleased that, at the time this issue arose, the government responded quickly and this deadline has already been extended. But what we're interested in is: Do you estimate that, in addition to mistakes made by citizens, there has also been a systemic error? Have systemic errors been identified? Is it possible already that, together with the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, these errors could be remedied and the situation in the area of real estate valuation has led to the level that is comparable to those of the neighbouring European countries? Key part, once again: Has the government detected this systemic error? Are they already foreseen, despite the fact that early steps are taken to remedy these errors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u54	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. As it is said, a word of encouragement is heard here and there. I am not saying that the Government is always or is largely worthy, but I am, and there is also the opposition and we must also encourage and not only criticize each other. We are in times when all of us have a difficult and responsible assignment together, and no encouragement is possible. That is why I would like to thank you, Mr Saiovic, for this. The government takes this parliamentary debate seriously and it is also. As far as your question is concerned. Experimental valuation of real estate caused legitimate dissatisfaction among owners. And also with Vlad. That is why, at my previous meeting on Thursday, I asked the Minister to prepare a report for this meeting of the Government and to propose measures to address the reasons which have caused us all a lot of dissatisfaction. Here today I have received those measures that the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia is already preparing, and I would like to go along with you through these measures. First of all, it is to facilitate the way in which comments and changes are communicated, to simplify the communication process, to make it possible via telephone to introduce additional telephone lines, to strengthen the number of staff at the Geodetics Authority and similar measures. The Geodetic Authority will extend the deadline for intervention beyond 25 November if there are large amounts of comments on the value of real estate. Therefore, if there are a large number of comments and it seems that this will be the case, we will extend the deadline for submitting comments. A set of necessary systemic measures is being prepared, as said, and will be proposed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Thursday. A set of necessary systemic measures is being prepared to provide quality real estate records in the long term. It should be pointed out in particular that each owner decides on his own whether or not he will make comments on the basis of the notice received and that the time limit thus far foreseen is 25. 11. 2000 will not be changed unless this proves necessary. Whether he does it or not is not subject to any penalty. Improper data will be corrected by the Geodetic Authority on official duty. Of course, it is helpful if the owners warn of these mistakes. Well, owners aren't obliged to point out mistakes. These errors must be determined by the Geodetic Authority itself. It will help the Geodetics Administration if the owners warn of this, but they are not obliged. This is, I think, an important message for people that there will be no misunderstandings, that there will now be some kind of panic among people, that, if they do not, there will be irreparable damage for them, they will have to storm with the Geodetic Authority. No, the Geodetic Authority is obliged to make decisions on an official basis that will be appropriate. In view of the fact that owners submit the most changes to the ownership and real estate data, the building year, the usable area and the like, it is also worth warning that all these changes can be transmitted later. The relevant legislation does not provide for the time limit for the communication of these amendments. It is important that the owners arrange the data on their properties until the establishment of a system of mass valuation and use of data for tax purposes by the date set by the real estate tax law, which is currently in preparation. However, before the property register data are used for taxation, the Geodetic Authority will invite the owners to provide the missing data within 30 days for all properties for which the value will not yet be calculated. Only if the owners of the property do not provide the data within 30 days of receipt of this questionnaire will the basis be given for the fine you are also asking for in your question. I say that the Geodetic Administration will also follow the instructions given by the Ministry or Government, so that owners do not need to worry, and now that some decisions have justified this dissatisfaction, there will be no need to worry. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government for immediate action. They did what they did and said what was to be done and said what was to be said. Now we all know that the correct, accurate actual calculations will be the basis for the tax assessment to replace the tax, so-called compensation for the use of the betting land. The second part of my question concerns what we wrote into the programme in the Party of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia two years ago: Do you share our opinion and our efforts in the framework of coalition coordination under this law, so that the first basic property we use to stay, house or apartment does not tax more than has been taxed so far, and each other, second, third or fourth, are, of course, progressively more taxed? In other words: Are we planning a tax policy so that those who are more wealthy will pay more in a common bag? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u58	Yeah, that's my principle and the principle of government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Puksic. But a procedural proposal, if you submit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government and ministers! I ask you, Mr President of the National Assembly, why it is written in the order of order to put the questions sent in the 32nd place that Member Franz Puksic will ask the Minister without a source responsible for development and European affairs, a question sent. However, this same Member received a letter from Dr Paul Gantar, which states that Minister Mitja Gaspari, Dr Paul Gantar, told the President of the National Assembly, that he did not want to answer the question raised by the Member of Parliament, which, my little thing, Ambassador Franz Pukšič, asked Mitja Gaspari, as usual and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For the second time, the Slovenian People's Party has asked Minister Mitja Gaspari a question, and for the second time, it has avoided answering the question before this National Assembly. Therefore, Mr President Paul Gantar, I ask you whether the Members of the Slovenian People's Party still have the right, the opportunity and our duty to ask your Minister Mitj Gaspari any question? Or Mr Mitja Gaspari is exempt from the fact that Members of the Slovenian People's Party can be asked a question which, of course, is exclusively linked to his own department. The decree on specific areas for regional development and European affairs states that the Minister shall ensure cross-cutting coordination of strategic documents whereby the Republic of Slovenia may receive funds from the European budget and conduct a dialogue with the European Union in this area. And in a state as we are today, when the Slovenian economy is in a situation of falling competitiveness, and we know that the business environment and public finances are practically at the worst possible bottom of history, we from the opposition must not ask the Minister a question. Tell me, honourable Mr. President: In what way should we go to the Slovenian People's Party to get an answer from Minister Gaspari? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u61	Mr Pukšič, you yourself have received the same notice as I have concerning the redirection of the question of the Member. All I can answer is that he's a magician. Mitja Gaspari considered that he would not answer the question you asked and would not answer it. This issue should be referred to the minister responsible for regional development. Since this is the last moment, you're still written under number 32 and I'm informing you right now that I'm deleting you from number 32 because you haven't redirected the question to the minister without a source. That's all I can tell you. Thank you for your compliments. We are moving on to the parliamentary questions raised at the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Culture Majda Širc will answer the question of Miran Györek regarding the state celebration in honour of the merger of Prekmurje with Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The question you have asked needs some clarifications because it is misleading to think that the Ministry of Culture has in any way restricted the celebrations or intends to limit them to future ones. Therefore, in a brief summary, what has happened is that the Government has adopted such a celebration plan as we now have and is also comparable to the Member States of the European Union. Last year, the Coordinating Committee on National Celebrations prepared a proposal to reduce in 2010 and consequently to the future number of national celebrations that we had in Slovenia more than enough, even inflation, in a way that would be comparable to other countries. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] But obviously this question is not of much interest to Members and Members of Parliament, so I guess I'll get it back at the next meeting or either [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u64	Now calm down, and I'll keep going. [[...]] So stop the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u65	Madam Secretary, just a moment. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Everyone you're talking to, please leave the hall as soon as possible. Mr. Puksich, mag. Kamnareva, Mr Žerjav, Mr President of the Government, Mr Bogovic, I ask for peace in the Chamber. Minister, proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u66	There's no school minister to make peace. But my time has run out in the meantime. This rationalisation did not go in the direction of saving or similar reflections, but in a way of finding better solutions, which, I say, would reduce more than four times the holiday quota we had compared to other countries, to a more rational, logical and more significant number of celebrations, which are now reduced into three key sets: five national holidays or holidays, which are celebrated each year by national celebrations or by the National Assembly celebrations, is said to be a Slovenian cultural holiday, which remains, by the way, still a fugitive and interesting importance in our space or wider space, a day of rebellion against the invader, a day of statehood, a day of reform and a day of independence and unity. This is an official national celebration. Then there are celebrations that can combine or have an important impact in connection with regional and local communities and are important for a particular region and are celebrated every five round years. For example: the return of Primorska to her homeland, the day of Rudolph Maistra and the merger of the Premurski Slovenes with the native nation. And the third set of celebrations, these are the extraordinary ones, on extraordinary occasions, and they only happen on the big round anniversary. What am I trying to say? That at the beginning of this year the Government has adopted a programme that not only takes place for this year's programme, but is longer-term, which does not limit celebrations or any other way of recording important historical and other events in Slovenia and moves them into different contexts, so that what you have asked has not changed in this respect. It is not true that the Ministry of Culture would cancel the celebration in the Črenšovci, which, by the way, was very well organised, and has occurred at a local or broader level with exceptional attention and also with significant success. She could not simply cancel because this celebration was not included in the calendar that I spoke about earlier, which was adopted by the Government when this plan was confirmed. Let me also say that celebrations themselves are not necessarily tied solely to celebrations. These celebrations, including those held for five years in cooperation with the Coordinating Committee, the local regional communities, including through the participation of partial resources and other assistance, have an important contribution and are not withdrawn. Not at all. In this regard, the starting point of your question was also based on the wrong assumptions, which, as I have now tried to answer, do not hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, you obviously don't want to understand what I wanted with the question. The fact is that the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes in Prekmurje, as well as in Primorska, believe that such a removal of the state celebration is a tribute to the merger of Slovenians with the native nation, which for centuries suffered the yoke of invaders and the domination of a foreign nation, the shameful disregard of such important events of Slovenian history and, to put it mildly, national disgrace. Members of the Slovenian National Party are distanced from this and we are protesting the most. Together, we must be aware of our shared responsibility to receive such holidays of their place in the human consciousness and memory of the Slovenian people, because the basic purpose of such holidays is to maintain human awareness of their national identity, of the common cultural identity and of our history. That's what I wanted to tell you, why your decision is inappropriate. It is unacceptable to make excuses for some kind of rationalisation – you say today, not because of the cost of national celebrations in this case – but even less for some European international comparability. We agree that there is certainly a need to pay more attention to the costs, their eligibility and, if possible, to reduce them. And we have proven this in the Črenšovci, how with almost zero euro costs a good celebration can be made. But as I can see and suppose, with this possibility in the government and in your ministry, you haven't been doing anything too much, but you've simply decided to delete some sort of deletion without looking at the exact financial structure. And in the end, I hope you will decide to revoke such a decision at your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u70	Your Honour, you couldn't hear it because there was a real unrest here. Therefore, I repeat: there was no erasure, and neither did the Ministry of Culture, which could erase anything, prohibit, deny or destroy the cultural identity that is supposed to be confirmed by your reflections primarily through celebrations. It is not deleted because celebrations are, but may also allow different kinds of celebrations, a different time shift with them, and may also allow for a much greater emphasis on the content of this celebration. However, the Government has confirmed, not the Ministry of Culture, once again, a plan which in some way, by highlighting a small number of official celebrations, does not mean to destroy or erase other celebrations, so not superficially, the surface of this society is very domestic, so it is right that at least within the dedicated premises such as the National Assembly is not at home. It's not about being erased. Celebrations themselves do not destroy Slovenian identity, but where! It is true, however, that according to our data or data available to all, most countries actually choose a smaller number, most on average two, three national-level celebrations, which does not mean that there are other celebrations that still have additional opportunities. Nor are celebrations only on holidays, not only in one evening, in one session, celebrations can also be recorded by weeks of open doors, by the publication of individual books, with school accents, textbooks and so on, which can in a different way mark someone, for a nation important, cultural and historical past or memory or that segment that actually strengthens our identity. And like the celebration that was good, by the way, the shrinking is important today, despite the fact that in previous mandates we have faced the budget for the celebrations that were essentially halved, we have still been able to co-finance those celebrations because we have been more rational and more attentive to them, which have taken place since the previous plan of government celebrations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič will first answer the question of the Council of Likar concerning the rehabilitation of the Vrhnika-Logatec motorway section. Please, Dr. Puller.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you, President. In addition to the winding-up belt and the supporting wall and chassis, the slow-duty belt, which had been built in 1971, is also included in the reconstruction of the road structure at the Vrhnika-Logatec section. Large road loads with freight vehicles cause damage to the vehicle, so in the event of rehabilitation this belt, which is intended for freight vehicles, will be made of concrete, just as it is now embedded in new buildings in Slovenia, because these are belts that are more burdensome, and this has proved to be a technologically meaningful solution. The contractor has already installed almost half of the proposed concrete. The contracting authority’s test and internal control of the operator have found that the concrete does not achieve sufficient strength. This characteristic can only be observed within five to seven days of installation. When additional investigations were commissioned to establish that the lack of cement was due to a lack of strength, the operator had to remove all inadequate material exclusively at its costs and re-install such as is required by the contract and also in the technological laboratory. In a particular case, the highway operator did the right thing and found irregularities by means of a test check. It wasn't until about a year or two or three after that. The damage will be fully covered by the contractor. The system for preventing such errors, which are never completely excluded, does not need to be changed, as the system itself proves that it is able to detect them. It is important that internal and external controls detect these errors. In such cases, as well as in this case, it is essential that the operator removes the built-in concrete at its costs and then replaces it with a new one.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I thank you for your answer, Mr Minister, but I am not entirely satisfied with it, because today we are going through a series of technical solutions that allow for electronic measurement and for such irregularities in my opinion, but should not come, unless there is a great deal of negligence in the middle of which the name must also be behind and there must be appropriate sanctions. In your reply, you stated that the costs or consequences of this will be borne exclusively by the contractor of the works, that is, the SCT, if I am not mistaken. Obviously, in this case, too, I think, in many other cases, there was a lack of control over the operation of construction works on motorway sections. The Transport Inspectorate also conducted a series of procedures during the period of renewal of this motorway section from 2006 to today, according to the section of Vrhnika-Logatec, but the shortcomings identified were not sufficient to impose any criminal sanctions against the contractor. They were entrusted only with the removal of the consequences identified. So once again, Mr. Minister, I ask you: How does your ministry intend to achieve a more rational use of resources from the national programme for the construction and maintenance of Slovenian motorways in the future and to achieve more effective control over the implementation of works so that similar cases and consequences do not arise against them? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In fact, I am pleased with your questions for one simple reason, because renewals are one of the activities on highways that are extremely burdensome. And you probably have, because I can see that you're looking for this and you've been very deep, you've seen that, say, at this section of work at night, which, until now, has not been a practice in Slovenia. There were also many problems when we tried to go to night repairs because there were settlements nearby and then complaints from the locals about overlighting. What I'm trying to tell you is, since I've been in the Ministry, I've been dealing with a problem of reconstruction, like previous ministers, and we've been constantly changing and optimizing the system. Just like now is a night job that wasn't before, we're going to take steps slowly into a system that will be optimal. One of the things that I want to put in place sooner or later is some super-control over all that's going on. The fact is that our construction works are relatively small and, in our own words, everyone knows everything. So for a while now, I have been thinking about how we would actually put in place a system that would allow me, as a minister, one such control that will be absolutely objective and optimal. I am aware of the problems that are brought about by renewals for us users of motorways and also for taxpayers. You've probably also seen that last year's funds for renovations have been substantially reduced to this year's. In fact, we are calling for an extremely accurate review of where it makes sense to do any renovations. So that it doesn't happen to do renovations where it doesn't have to. And it's a step towards moving forward, for the renovations that have been poorly laid down in the past, we are addressing the shortcomings and for the next year you can expect some more innovations. Just like this night's work and stuff. This is, of course, one of the things we encounter everywhere in Europe on the highways, wherever they have motorways, and they cause major congestion. This is why it is essential to make improvements so that users are as friendly as possible and that there will be no spending of taxpayers' money. I'm glad this is where it all came out when it was made, that there was a mistake. What you've warned me about, I'm going to ask you in particular about these electrical measurements. I'm not a technologist, but I don't know if it's possible to do this scan during just installation. So I'm going to take a look at that too, and I'm sure any such opinion is welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Minister will also answer the question of France Jurša regarding the supervision of the implementation of the rules on restrictions on the use of state roads, which are longer than one year. Please, Minister Patrick Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. As far as national roads are concerned, Mr Jurša states, Member, I apologize, that the rules on restrictions on the use of State roads, which are longer than one year, prohibit the use of individual types of vehicles for the purpose of securing the public road for reasons relating to road and traffic insurance and their use, because of the inadequate technical elements of the road, carrier and road construction and crossing facilities. The second point of Article 6 sets out sections of State roads where traffic for axle-loaded vehicles exceeding 8 tonnes is prohibited due to an inadequate carrying capacity of the road structure. There's this section on that list. The decision to impose restrictions on traffic, in view of the maintenance of the whole road body, is an economic decision on road management. These restrictions are reasonably introduced in parts of the road network, where, from a technical point of view in the near future, we can expect an accelerated deterioration of the road body, in parts where the wear of the road structure reflects the effects of fatigue and the condition of the driving surface is borderline or worse. Where a prohibition or restriction on the use of a particular national road or part thereof is necessary for a period exceeding one year, such prohibition or restriction shall be established in accordance with the said Regulation. Article 9 provides that when the Directorate finds that the reasons given for restricting the use of a public road which cannot be abolished within one year are to submit to the Minister a reasoned proposal to restrict the use. It also applies to the elimination of the restriction. The mentioned Ljutomer-Pavlovci road introduces a restriction or prohibition on the carriage of goods vehicles with an axle load greater than 8 tonnes. The section shall have an appropriate signalling on both sides, drawing attention to that provision. In accordance with the Regulation, traffic regulations on a section of a State road are marked by a prescribed signalling and thus conditions are laid down to detect infringements, to control the excess of the maximum permissible loads laid down by the traffic sign and to comply with road safety rules. The enforcement is supervised by the police, which is also a criminal authority. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the context of the novelty of the new Road Law, it is proposed to grant the power to exercise control over the excess of the maximum permitted axle loads also to the municipal registries, which are to exercise control on municipal roads and state roads in settlements. This measure will ensure greater control and greater effectiveness of compliance with legal rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The Minister will also answer Milan Čadež's question regarding road maintenance. Please, Minister Dr. Patrick Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you, President. So this is a general question only about road maintenance, if I understand?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u81	This is a question raised in connection with road maintenance, so I write, at the last meeting, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u82	When I was missing. So the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads informed the Directorate for Roads. With regard to one particular case, I had a hint that it was supposed to be discussed, so I have a more concrete picture. Otherwise, in general, I can tell you about maintenance of roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u83	Just answer it the way you think.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u84	Generally speaking, the maintenance of state roads. Desires are like that, but there's so much money. That's the biggest problem. We have 6,000 kilometers of state roads, of which 3,000 are in relatively poor condition. Budget resources are the same as they are. More generally, only state roads are part of the infrastructure funds we have for investments for investment maintenance. Then there is the construction of the railway infrastructure, the construction of the highway so far and so forth. Wishes are very large in Slovenia, and so, if I say so over the thumb, they are for 15 billion euros. And we have money available at the Ministry between 300 and 400 million a year. And I just can't give these two things together. What I'm doing is, somehow, we can come up with the means to find the means to rebuild state roads more quickly, we're trying to bring in some partners with the public-private partnership to finance such sections in order to rebuild all these state roads first. But a public-private partnership is very nice to work on highways where you collect tolls. It's almost impossible on state roads. That is why we are trying to find ways to bring some private partners to state roads too, so that these 3,000 kilometres of state roads can be restored sooner than the state budget. With the Minister of Finance, we have an interdepartmental working group, which we are leading, which cannot find an answer to these questions. It's not easy. But I think some lights at the end of the tunnel are showing up here. But basically the problem is that the money is as much as it is. And whoever it is, we need to deploy to 3,000 kilometres of state roads to be rebuilt. But it makes sense to do this earlier because the later stake is so much higher. If we let roads collapse completely, it is harder to reconstruct maintenance than if we do it in a period when it makes more sense. The sooner we do this, the smaller the stakes for the country, even if we owe it a little bit. This is a relatively simple response to what I would like to have to have as much resources as I need to rebuild state roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Chad.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. You obviously didn't exactly look at my question or read it. The question was about maintenance, but also a specific example on the road of Škofja Loka-Jiri. I understand that the problem of maintaining roads in Slovenia is, but we are Members, covering all areas, and we are here to draw attention to these critical problems. We know that we have poor 60% of the roads in Slovenia, which have a high or medium level of risk, as assessed by the independent European Commission. It is on these roads that the most traffic accidents occur, ending with severe consequences or death. Right here, I'm alerting you to a mile and a half of Bishop Loka-Jiri. And at this very mile, as I reminded you at the April session in spring, there was a third death accident again in September. You, too, have concessionaires, road surveyors who look at certain roads. I want this section to be carefully seen because it is dangerous because we do not want such cases to occur in this local environment and in Slovenia as well, given that we are not already warning it. I would also like to say that there has been progress in the last two years on this road, which is already in poor shape, but I would like to see this urgent work continue intensively.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you. I drove myself to your places the last time, and you were looking at these roads. Due to the budget's rebalancing, the funds were further reduced for state roads and so we had to limit the rolling stock measure to the really necessary repairs, to the patching of roads where road loads and ice cream injuries caused the breakdown of the rolling stock. The area you are talking about is extremely busy in the climate and is much more exposed to the impact on the road. The priority was adjusted to the given situation, so the R-1/210 road imbalance, the section of Škofja Loka-Gorenja village, where unfortunately there was a fatal accident, for which, according to our data, the cause of the imbalance was not compensated. The repair of the vehicle at the said station will be re-classified by the Road Directorate into the next year's patching plan and will eliminate this imbalance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Procedural proposal, Mr Čadež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u90	I want this part to really look at itself because we don't want such things to happen again. And I would also like not only to ask you this answer next year, but I also had a question like that at the spring session, and I want a specific date or time-table when this procedure will take place.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The institution of the Procedural Proposal has been abused, however, because it is a road in the Poljanska Valley, let's say that we will "count it a little less". So much for information. Thank you very much. The question to the minister will be asked by Janez Ribič regarding the arrangements for unsecured railway crossings. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much, President. Currently, there are 916 level crossings on Slovenian railway infrastructure, of which 577 are secured only with the Andreev Cross. In 2009 and 2010, the following was carried out in the field of level crossings. First, let me tell you that we are taking various measures to prevent the level crossings, which are secured only by the Andrey Cross, so you will see that this set is different. One of them was termination, and these were 19. Automated devices, insurance with them, these were 9. One level crossing with pedestrian insurance and renewed automation was restored at one level crossing. In other words, from 577 we have arranged them in about 30 years, which is relatively my estimate of small dynamics. Small dynamics because it's very, very expensive, and then I'll also tell you at the end when I give you a complete picture because we're practically doing this regularly. As far as the ongoing activities are concerned, the following are concerned. The design documentation for obtaining a building permit for the reconstruction and electrification of the Prague-Ormož-Hodoš line, which will arrange as many as 100 crossings at once, is on the whole route. The Prague-Omoz route will have 11 out-of-war crossings, 14 of them will be secured by prisons, 18 will be abolished. Ormož-Murska Sobota-Hodoš, 13 out-of-war, 25 insured, we will terminate 36 of them. The start of construction activities is set in 2013. As far as Divaca-Koper is concerned, the construction of overpasses, connecting roads, the execution of automatic insurance and terminations will be regulated by all level crossings on the Divača-Koper line and on the Divac-Prešnica section, where 8 of them are secured with the Andreje Cross. According to the timetable, arrival-related activities will be completed in 2011. In addition to the above, the development of VAT for seven separate out-of-military crossings will allow the abolition of level crossings and increase safety on the railway also on the Ljubljana–Sežana route, namely Rakek, Ljubljana–Esenice, Lesce Pass to Murka and Selo–Zirovnica, Ljubljana–Dobova route, Lower Laže crossings, Brežice, Dobova import, Export route, Zidani Most–Maribor line, Bohova crossing. I must point out that the number of level crossings cancelled or secured is highly dependent on the budgetary resources provided and in this connection the Ministry aims to include insurance financing in the national programme, both on main and regional lines. In addition to the more accurate plan, which has now been presented in some way, you may request or expect from the national programme. When will adequate insurance be provided for three unprotected crossings in the municipality of Pesnica? I can provide you with information that the investigating authority has launched an investigation and that its report will be prepared as soon as possible. In accordance with the proposals and the level-crossing review committee, solutions will be prepared for the insurance of all the crossings mentioned. A review of the situation of crossings in this area shows that two unprotected crossings are possible, including the one where an accident occurred, to terminate and link them to the connecting road to the nearby protected passage. However, for the third transition, the possibility of adequate insurance is being set at the moment, which is expected as soon as possible by the Commission's proposal. Let me say this because I have just so much time left that we are often dealing with this problem, even today, and one of the decisions that has recently been taken is the education of the municipal services responsible for this. In fact, most of the accidents that happens happen at the intersection of railways and municipal roads, not state roads, virtually all state roads, and I think that there may be some cases, are such that they are secured only with the Andrej Cross. The problem is municipal roads and crossroads. We will therefore make education for those who are responsible for security at these crossings in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Ribič's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u94	Dear Mr. Secretary and all present! I must say that you have answered my question quite broadly, how we will solve this problem in Slovenia. I would like to stress once again that I am interested in this particular case that I have asked. When will the three railway crossings in the municipality of Pesnica be adequately secured? I would like to emphasise and, Mr Minister, I ask you and your competent transport ministry to prepare project documentation as soon as possible through your services, in particular the Railway Directorate, and to ensure that these railway crossings are properly secured so that there are no new accidents. I would not want another similar tragedy to happen. I know that this is a major asset, including financial, but where such tragedies occur, there should also be a priority for solving these problems, and I would like to achieve this in order to take a closer look at and resolve this problem at the end. It's one of the oldest tracks, the Danube-Ljubljana-Trist connection. And if the railway crossing has been unsecured for so many years, I think we should put some priorities here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u96	Since I've run out of time before, I'll tell you that. In addition, we ordered because it is the municipal authority to review once again the visible triangle of access. And if, by chance, the municipal services have not performed their tasks — for example, the transition of such a nature — in order to achieve this visibility. On this particular case. Yeah, he's got priority. As soon as we receive a referral from the investigating authority, I have instructed you what a solution could be, and we will approach it. And it has an absolute priority. At the end of the day, I say that we are dealing with this issue very much. But today I was surprised to hear that, in fact, in our country, the relationship between the insured and the transitions with automated devices, secured only by the Andre Cross, is not quite the same as in more developed countries in Europe. At the same time, I ordered my associates to try to find a way to better warn the driver when he approaches the Andre Cross. Our assessment is that the perception of the Andre Cross is insufficient when approaching the Nitrogen Cross, whether it is some kind of light warning or another warning. Last year, we also had the Andre cross action of a preventive nature. And if I say plastic, people on the red light or on the stop sign act more closely than they do on the Andre Cross, even though they have those signs that you're getting closer to him and then it's the Andre Cross. We are therefore looking for ways to achieve greater safety under all these other measures by increasing the alert on these level crossings, which are secured only by the cross. As it is said, this will go ahead with priority and the intended solution is the abolition of two connecting roads and insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Mag. Dejan Židan will answer the question first of all regarding the suppression of the May bug. I think it'll be a bit of a late answer, but anyway. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u98	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers! The Mayan beetle is one of the so-called non-rantine pests because it is a dangerous larvae. It is present in Slovenia, and we basically use so-called technological measures to fight it, this is a special way of plowing, plowing with a rotator. This then maintains a normal population that does not cause economic damage in the agricultural field. We had a massive outbreak in 2007 in the municipalities of Idrija and Logatec, and at that time the government reacted in a special way, with a special regulation and used a special product containing pathogenic fungi as a fight against this pest. At that time, €540,000 of state money was used to combat this pest. This active substance was deleted from the register in the European Union in 2008 and is no longer used for the regular fight against pests since then, and intervention may still be used. At the moment, there is an evaluation of the professional services, in this area Idrija operates the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute, so that it is possible against the pest to operate with technological measures and control its population. But there are two points that need to be highlighted here. If there is a change in the assessment that it poses a major economic threat again, it is possible, at the proposal of the professional service, to re-import the fungi acting against the larvae into Slovenia, and also in this case I must ensure, as I have ensured in the gold cane, although no dedicated money is planned in the 2011 budget, 2012, but this money will be found immediately if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I thank the Minister for his reply. I am also pleased that it is possible to import this fungi by way of intervention and that it will be possible to act if more damage occurs. The fact is that this damage is expected in the coming year when we will have the so-called kebra year again. However, damage also occurs in other areas in Slovenia, which is on the mountain above Ajdovščina, not only on the Montenegrin plano in the municipality of Idrija and Logatco, but also in Kobarid, Bovec, Tolmin and Čepovan. Therefore, it would be good for professional services to prepare for possible greater damage in the coming year and to take appropriate action. However, let me say at least one positive side of these floods, which were on the black market, including the Zadlog was flooded for almost 17 days and there were some of these pests even after this plating, experts estimate somehow half. However, this long - term watering caused damage to grass. That way, one thing and another will definitely have to be repaired. Thank you very much, once again, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you. So there's no need for the Minister to answer further. The Minister will also answer Janez Ribič's question regarding the establishment of an internet group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr Member for your question. Activities run here, as promised by both ministers. At this point, a protocol between the two ministries is being concluded, how to respond effectively to the inspection level, which in this particular case was a problem. Another matter, perhaps as a notification that you will understand why we took it so seriously. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has agreed with the Civil Protection Defence Department to finance the purchase of a special boat that we would need right there in your case, and we did not have one. This boat will, of course, finance the agricultural ministry and turn it over to civil protection. Civil protection will be able to apply it throughout the range of cases it deals with, and even in such a case as you have asked the question when there was simply no appropriate technical means available at the country level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ribič?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Secretary-General. I am interested in the specific responsibility of the inspection services, which have not carried out their tasks in this matter, because there has been a transfer of responsibility and even their superiors have difficulty determining which inspector is competent, as you may have determined. It says: Who is to blame, and who will be responsible for the consequences? It is also necessary to know that after the construction of the highway, the Pernicka Lake was partly covered in deep parts and that a new east object was created. Whether it is bad or wrong, please let the competent experts answer. Order must be made, so I expect Dars to do his work in this area once and for all with all his professional apparatus.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u106	Mr Member, once again, thank you for the question. Here, in fact, it is clear that those who perform and benefit economically from this must lead the dead fish to the city, this is the coast where they are fully taken over by the veterinary and hygiene services. As I have already pointed out, it has essentially occurred that the four inspection services have coordinated, which is responsible, which can issue the relevant conclusions. Then, too, Minister Rok Žarnic and I reached out, and then we agreed on all the jobs. In fact, it was an example of such a nature that it was actually substantively difficult to solve. If the water were high enough, the usual dead fish boats could be removed if the bottom were straight. Even in low water, those who remove, walk and remove themselves are easily removed. But if the bottom is, as in this case, when there was shallowness, in the midst of very deep pits that threatened people if they went this way, an appropriate technical tool was sought, for example, such as this boat, which will now be financed by the Ministry of Agriculture for Civil Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer Dr. Laszla Gönch's question about the damage caused by the game. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u108	There's a lot of information to be given here. The area that you, Mr Member, are referring to falls under the pomurish hunting management area. There is a relatively large amount of damage paid at the annual level. The amount of damage is around €100,000 and changes over the years. At least when food is scarce in the forest, animals move to fields. At that time, the damage is also over 100,000 euros. In 2008, 118 000 Euros were paid. in 2009 EUR 98 000. In years that are different, however, the damage is significantly lower, somewhere between €55 and €60 000. Here is the following fact to be said. The quantity of animals depends on the annual recovery plans, which then give the right and duty to hunting families to essentially pull the trigger. These plans, however, are adopted in a so-called public manner, and public treatment is necessary because there is a need to make public the position and requirements to which the operator must be identified. And now one piece of information, Mr Member, which you will probably be interested in, and this is next. In recent years, according to available data, public presentations of the annual plans, where people and farmers with disabilities should be clarified, asked for something, representatives of farmers and farmers of these public decommissionings should not participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. You want a supplement, yes, please. Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I agree with some of your answers, perhaps it is also a mistake in the interests themselves to do damage, but I would still open two more things or have already been open to the introductory question, but I would have repeated them. Unfortunately, despite what you have mentioned, the trend is that this damage is increasing, from year to year. So, the concept of how to deal with this problem is, in my opinion, it's just not right. More effort will have to be put in place and opportunities will be sought. That's one thing. And the other thing is that the issue of surface heating with these high fences, which is said to have occurred in certain areas. We know that there's a specific soil configuration in the area we're talking about right now, but I'm still asking: What is the professional view of setting such fences? Is this the right solution or the right direction to go? And just for the end, I'd like to point it out again. This year I have also looked at certain damage caused, and I can assure you that the situation in Goričko from this point of view is truly catastrophic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Can I help you? Please, Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to give you two information. Of course, it is also possible to protect this protection, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is co-financed, but because this is a very large space – and, of course, the search for a balance between animal protection, knowing that the animal no longer has a natural enemy because it was almost exterminated at our end and during the shooting. This balance should be sought. Often happens in this, my personal evaluation is also at this point in time such that the shot was essentially smaller. Once again, I would like to call on the population with the most damage, namely the agricultural sector and their representatives. Pay attention, by the end of March of the following year, to the public debate, which is about management plans, and also to the place where the operators have to be identified for all comments, make your arguments very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roku Žarnić. Please, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u114	Dear Mr. Secretary! People were very reluctant to accept notifications about the experimental calculation of the value of real estate. The reasons for this are the numerous errors and illogicalities contained in these notifications. I want to know: What will you do about the confusion in mass property valuation? Who's responsible for this?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u116	Dear Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for the question that will allow clarification of many doubts and questions about this action, which, I must say, may be sensitive because people behind this "product" Dursa see taxes for which our ministry is not competent in the next step. Your question is very similar, practically identical to the question of Mr Guida Kres, 4 to 25, and not to read or read the same question twice, I have an answer to his question, some further clarifications [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u117	Mr Minister, you will have to answer each question separately, so that you cannot answer Mr Kres at this time, just to Mr Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I wanted to explain that both of you are going to give a complete picture together. It is not possible to arrange the real estate records in a short period of time. Inadequate and unregulated data originate mainly from a previous social system that was not inclined to register property. Unfortunately, we have not used the privatisation process and the ownership of social property to regulate the recording of real estate. Some of the resounding affairs caused by the non-systematic recording of movements and real rights on them, such as the Zbilski Gaj, have resulted in at least partial regulation of this area. With the 2004 Housing and Housing Buyers Protection Act, investors have consistently begun to register all buildings on the floor. However, there are still largely undetected new unit buildings, economic buildings and, above all, previously built buildings. Thus, the situation that has arisen has suggested that real estate data be collected in the real estate register. The property inventory covered most of the data on buildings and some data on land and buildings were excluded from other collections such as collections of landowners, dedicated land use from municipalities and actual use from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Information on users in the register of national ownership, property of municipalities and public good data on operators was also attributed. Due to the quantity of data, the collection of data from owners and the subsequent automatic processing of data, it was already clear in advance that the data would need to be re-checked. This verification shall take place when informing the owners of the experimentally calculated property value. The responsibility for the lack of and incorrect recording of real estate that causes dissatisfaction of real estate owners cannot be assumed by only one authority. The registration of the data collected in the real estate register is subject to the responsibility of several repositories that take care of the data taken into the register. The owners are also responsible for the correctness and up-to-date of the data. By notifying the experimental calculation of the value, the State first disclosed to all owners the information it had on their properties. Unfortunately, it also revealed errors that exist in the records and incorrect links between the data. She discussed to the owners how their property is regulated in the cadastral and whether they have protected co-ownership rights in the land book. Information from real estate owners can be used as an opportunity to maintain quality real estate records. This is in the interest of both the individual and the state. I expect that the short-term measures already taken by the Geodetic Authority and, if necessary, by the Ministry will ensure faster data regulation in the notification process. In order to regulate this area in the long term, we will propose that appropriate measures be taken by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. All right, Mr. Minister, this will help improve the record, but I'm curious: Why at this very moment with such action, when we know that the Geodetic Authority does not have an up-to-date record that the land book does not record all changes in time? It is also true that the owners themselves do not have the records they should have. However, this mass evaluation involves statistical processing of the data carried out during a given period, and this is over a period of five years. During this period some transactions were also speculative in nature, it is said, prices are significantly higher. And now it turns out that even where people know market value well, they get significantly higher values and it's a real mess. So the state will collect taxes in some speculative values that were at a certain point. Then the list is three years old. At that time, people changed their property, sold it, and so on. There has been a confusion that has been added by the Geodetic Authority, since it has not been up - to - date that all changes have been recorded in the earth’s book. I don't think that's the right way, because they can't sort out all of these records anymore, and these owners who've come to the Geodetics Office have added to this confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. In explanation. The deadline and schedule were already predetermined, so it fell at the moment. But I have to say, a million 99 thousand 317 messages were sent by GURS. That's 84 million data. In 14 days up to now, there have been 1 or 89 thousand 215 proposals for changes to the data – 1.................................................. or......................................................... And of that, only a dozen of them, it's said, one in ten thousand comments on value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u124	Look, Mr. Secretary, thank God there's only 1 coming. How about 10%? Then what would we do? You think there's only one problem? I'm sure there are a lot of them. People didn't come, but they will, at least when it's done. I think the problem is very hot. Indeed, as you said, this has accumulated throughout all these years, that we should have started this slowly 20 years ago, and now we can't do it overnight. But I'm afraid it's going to cause even more confusion, because the land book now does not contain the square or the land use, it's just a partial number. And there's a new confusion, because the owner or the middleman at the Geodetic Authority has to get the right information, and some don't even go looking for it and enter only a partial number into the purchase contract. And there is confusion when the buyer doesn't even know what he bought, what surfaces and what squares. Problems have already arisen, such as certain cases when the buyer bought more than he got. And this difference or this confusion is going to get bigger. I think that this should begin to clear up, for the first time since the time of Mary Teresa, but in this way, when we deal with a tax, in order to clear up the basics, I fear that there will be even more confusion. That is why I think it would be right to discuss this in the National Assembly in favour of resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Lah to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 October 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mr Bogdan Barovic will now ask the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Darji Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you. In fact, the issue was addressed and focused both on the Minister and on the Minister for Environment and Space. The question concerns the consequences of the flood. The consequences of the 2007 flood have not yet been remedied. So three years later, this year, due to the unscanned consequences of 2007, the damage was much greater. They are estimated at some 100 million euros, and more than 10,000 people are directly and indirectly affected and dozens of companies are affected. The frequency of flooding is increasing and the consequences are also increasing. Just a month after the floods, the consequences were not solved. There is no concrete financial promise to date. To my party, i.e. the initiative of the Slovenian National Party to give this government to the affected municipalities the opportunity to shift the envisaged unused funds from municipal budgets to financing consequences and thus to burden the country, there is no answer. Instead of concrete and effective moves by the competent ministries, the Minister of Environment and Space was given the task of drafting a law on concessions for the lower Sava, changes to the Water Act, changes to the Environmental Protection Act, changes to the Nature Protection Act. But colleagues and colleagues, laws cannot regulate the situation after the flood and before the new disasters. The basic preventive measures are carried out by the Government and ministries from year to year. For example, treatment of watercourses that are impossible to heal. If the state is unable to do so, it should transfer responsibility and funding to individual municipalities that will do so and do so on a regular basis and save the suffering and destruction of natural disasters and millions of damages. The exact calculation for the prevention of multi-s hundred million damage is made each year. By 2016, 50 million should be allocated to the construction of flood barriers. I'm only going to say 50 million, because if we do, we're going to stop millions or billions of dollars of damage. The consequences of the floods in 2007 and this year are too great. There's too much material damage, too much suffering for people, too much consequences for the country. I think it's high time we save the worst for the next decade. I therefore ask the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for the Economy: Will the 2011 budget and budgets allocate at least the 15 million required to maintain 760 million water infrastructure sites by 2013? Will the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of the Economy carry out maintenance work to the public benefit of the watercourses by the end of 2011, as promised in April 2008? I'm gonna ask you something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. I must say that this issue also concerns the Minister for the Environment in part, particularly in the work relating to the maintenance of water infrastructure and the recovery of the flood itself. However, allow me to answer now in this work concerning the Ministry of the Economy. I have to say here that at the Ministry of the Economy we are probably one of the first, of all ministries, but don't get the wrong idea that we acted quickly and immediately provided business assistance to address the consequences of these floods in 2010, namely, we have provided €5.6 million from our budget to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which has already published a public call to businesses to report their damages. On this basis, companies have an opportunity to receive up to €200,000 in grants under the de minimis principle to remedy damage in their businesses. Of course, the Ministry of the Economy can only help, in accordance with its competences, to rehabilitate businesses, by rehabilitating their equipment, by restoring, for example, the stocks that have been destroyed in the floods and so on. In this regard, I would also like to say that this measure was not implemented for the first time this year in these floods. The same measure was also implemented in previous floods. And it turned out to be very successful in previous floods, because it was very quick and in a short time helped those companies to somehow bridge that time of recovery damage to the flood. This is about addressing minor damage, but of course some companies have suffered greater damage in these floods. The Ministry of the Economy has been involved and has also called on all companies from flooded areas to provide us with a comprehensive assessment of the damage as soon as possible. For these, we then have the planned or reserved resources in the 2011 budget. Of course, I am talking here about damages that are significantly above the value of 200 000 euros. For example, it is certain that Svea has greater damage, and there will be no more damage among them, and this cannot be made quickly, at least until the damage itself has been determined. However, I must say that it took companies themselves some time to actually assess what damage they had, how much damage they had on equipment, on machines and so on. So, we have responded quickly, now the very response, to how many applicants this action has already been through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, we do not yet have, but the instrument is prepared so that the right companies, the ones that will make applications for damages, will be able to receive the funds paid by December 2010. So much for me, maybe the minister's going to add something to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Minister Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u130	Dear Members and Members! I have a similar question under number 16, where it will be more detailed, but only here on a few specific questions. We are ahead of the amendment of the Act on the Conditions of Concession and before the amendment of the Water Act. Both of these changes are expected to slightly improve the financial balance upstream, as we know that by 1990 0.4 GDP was reserved for watercourse management and dropped four times after 1992. It's about the congregations. We are considering amending the Water Act, including the greater role of municipalities or municipal companies in the congregations, and another story that has been in force since Maria Teresa. The owners of the surrounding land were also obliged by law to regulate those parts of the watercourses, as is the case with the current increase. It's also one of the things we talk about. Maybe I'll give a little more answers to your question in response to Mr Verlich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr Barovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'd say first that I understand that you need to change the laws if you want to change some conditions, but at this point, I think you need to help and then change the law. The laws themselves, if, God forbid, the floods will save nothing, no matter what stage this law is. I would just like to remind you of the first question where I said that there is a calculation whereby 15 million would be necessary to maintain water infrastructure facilities in 2011, 2012 and 2013 to prevent such damage as we have witnessed. I also recalled the promise made in April 2008 that all maintenance works would be carried out for public benefit on the watercourses, i.e. those that had the consequences of the flood from 2007 to next year. I just remember! But I do have two more questions, or if you want, give an initiative if you don't know the answers. I want to know: Why does the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of the Economy, of course, together with a hand in hand, during a major construction crisis or the whole Government, if you want, not offer construction companies immediate work for the country, such as the construction of floodwater infrastructure or the regular and investment maintenance of such infrastructure? And secondly: Why don't these two ministries and the government offer, for example, Vegrad workers regular maintenance of less demanding cleaning of trunks, shrubs in watercourses and other parts, as well as the forms of paid public works? This, of course, would help those affected, help these workers, and, finally, much would be done for the common benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I very much agree with you. Just one piece of information. The urgently needed remedial work at existing facilities to regulate this area has an estimated value of EUR 100 million. It's urgent that we don't talk about what needs to be done. Here I fully agree, there is a huge opportunity for construction companies, with one little nuisance, to find these millions. We're dependent on the budget. We would very much like the Ministry to have that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economy does not simply have the resources to maintain watercourses and these things. This is not within our jurisdiction, but we are trying to help companies that have suffered flood damage. I think we are very up-to-date here, and we have also quickly found funds within our ministry in the final stages, so that we can start implementing this measure already this year. As for the very inclusion of construction workers in rehabilitation. I see no reason, and probably everywhere these works take place, construction companies are involved. This is an absolutely good initiative and a good proposal. I have to say that when I was on my own in Zagorje, Svea, I first told you where our builders are, why they're not cleaning the shaft. If it comes next week — then it seemed like another flood could follow if they didn’t clean this stream — it would be even worse next week. So I don't even see who else will work here if not our Slovenian construction companies, and I'm sure they've joined. But the fact is that the area of construction, we know that the construction sector has now suffered the most in this crisis, we have the biggest crisis in this area. We have also prepared a whole range of measures for construction, but as we look at where and how we could actually help this sector, we are increasingly finding that the construction sector is simply pre-dimensional and cannot be maintained in such a form without knowing what measures the country is taking. it will have to be purified and reduced to one normal level. However, I will be able to say a little more about the construction measures on any other occasion. I would just like to say that I agree with you that such workers can also be involved in public works, and this will be our Ministry's proposal to include in the 2011 programme the work carried out by the Employment Office through the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will ask the question of the Minister of Economy of Mrs Radic and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u138	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I support a very complex global theme, I could say how to protect the Slovenian economy from flooding low-cost products from abroad. This is a question I am asking Minister of Economy Darji Radic and Minister of Agriculture Mag. Diane Jedhan. I'm asking: What levers and instruments do we have at our disposal to protect against imports of low-cost products, goods and services that flood the Slovenian market and weaken or, what can I say, destroy the real sector of the Slovenian economy? This is, in a sense, the foundation of Slovenian identity. Yes, the real sector is the basis of Slovenia's autonomy and sovereignty. The problem of low-cost products is not only their price, as it is created under conditions of free movement of goods and services under the principle of free competition, the problem is, firstly, their priceability, i.e. questionable quality and secondly, the pricing resulting under conditions of unfair competition, on the basis of dumping of the price of foreign producers. I believe that the rules of the World Trade Organisation, the International Financial Fund and the rules adopted by the European Union do not sufficiently prevent unfair competition. Many products are also cheaply low because certain multinationals provide transactions, resources and raw materials at extremely low prices. And it's not my thinking because I've watched Naomi Klein's movie, we've known this for a long time, they get arrangements based on political pressures, economic diplomacy and other formal, informal instruments and pressures. Many producers also receive low prices at the expense of the labour force, which receives income below the poverty threshold, do not include social security contributions, receive wages irregularly, and use the child labour directly or indirectly. Slovenian economic operators or farmers under such conditions cannot compete with low-cost products despite better quality and lower profits. Does the government or the ministry even have instruments at its disposal to protect ourselves against global unfair competition? Does Slovenia have any chance of affecting the change in the rules of the international community relating to the movement of goods and services? And the last [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much. As you said, Mr Magajna, this is actually a very complex issue and, in my personal opinion, a very important question that I think will need to be discussed in the general public in the future. However, you have asked me how many, in fact, the State of the Republic of Slovenia and in this context, the Government can do to prevent the sale of such products, which are literally based on slavery or on the abuse of low social security of people in certain countries. My answer may now sound very bureaucratic or official at first stage, but I am obliged to tell you what these rules are, and in the end it is certainly an appeal to all that, in fact, we can contribute the most to the appearances of such goods, which we know was produced either by slavery or by children in impossible situations, most of all by ourselves, simply by not buying such products. I think this is the right way in this world, in the global world. However, let me explain to you now the rules that we have at our disposal and how we can behave in the case of international trade. In accordance with Article 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the introduction of trade measures is a matter of the European Union's common trade policy, co-formed by all 27 Member States. This means that all measures must be coordinated, also in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, must be in the common interest of all European Union countries and the measures put in place directly in all Member States and not only in each country. In the event of a proven distortion of competition or unfair trade practices on the market of the European Union and the resulting injury to the European Union industry due to imports of certain products from any third country, the EU may impose additional duties, i.e. anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard measures on imports of these products. However, it should be pointed out that the objective of these measures is not to prevent low-cost imports resulting from some of the natural competitive advantages of certain third countries, but rather to avoid, in particular, the artificial advantages that third countries receive from countries or from private organisations, for example, where the production of these goods is subject to an illicit subsidy or other facilitation given by governments to producers and exporters. Well, the European Union is active in this area. There are currently 132 anti-dumping measures at EU level, 8 also have anti-subsidy measures, which means that trade policy is being implemented in this area. Perhaps as an interesting thing, Slovenia is not exempt here. Also on the proposal of our companies, for example, we have a case here, Niko Železniki, launched such anti-dumping measures and also successfully implemented or adopted. However, the fact is that despite the fact that the European Union wants to protect itself against the third world by anti-dumping and other safeguard measures, if I may say so, the European Union's trade policy must, on the other hand, provide an open market sufficiently open to the open market in order to provide cheap raw materials, input materials for industry and thus allow sufficient competitive pressure on domestic companies. So it is always necessary to find the right balance between the protection and openness of the economy. Finally, let me re-emphasize, I think the heart of your question is going in another direction. This is the kind of, I'll say, classic official answers, but the point is in what I said at the beginning – we can do the most to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u142	I'd like a refill. Perhaps Mr. Minister of the Jews will continue because I will turn to him a little. Sometimes it's best to illustrate with a case. Last year, Christmas time, getting a nursery, you see, great product, 5 euros. From the other end of the world, how much did that worker get — nothing whole and I don't know how many euros. I don't know how much he got for this product, but I'm aware that it's hard now to figure out how this product was produced, under what circumstances, whether the worker got paid or didn't get paid, or whether he has social insurance. Of course, this is an element of unfair competition. If we have high standards here, the social standard also affects the price, for example, the product indirectly. Of course, how we will fight this and protect it is a difficult question to answer. But a very specific question to the Minister of Agriculture: I hear that we also get agricultural products from neighbouring Italy, for example, fresh vegetables. If it comes from Milan, how can this vegetable be fresh now? Is it not possible to prevent a measure or a declaration from alerting the consumer that this article was produced in this and this plant with such and such grounds, in one way or another? Perhaps some regulations could prohibit the import, for example, of food that has been preserved by such and such products. Do we even have this information? Can we influence that? Can the consumer even know what he's buying?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for asking. I need to give you some information. First of all, as far as food is concerned, in fact, whatever comes to Slovenia is subject to examination as to whether it is safe to eat. The number of analytical investigations is relatively high, and this is also one of the rare items that is still increasing further in the next financial year, which will be even more. The next issue, which is extremely important from the consumer's point of view, is the fight against monsters. You have probably also been informed through the media that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which I represent, has taken this very seriously. We started with honey, and every fifth honey we received in the deadline was fake. And of course, it's usually done at a lower price because it's made of raw materials that are not basic raw materials. At this point, action is being taken against the vice versa and misleading the consumer by misdeclaration in milk and milk products. At the moment, some over 300 samples have been examined and almost 30% of those that do not match are already at the declaration level, while analysts are working. There is a repeat of olive oil control, where I also think we will discover a lot of interesting things that we want to get off the shelves and this continues. These are the tools that the state has directly in its hands. The second is to inform the consumer that it is in the consumer's interest to buy food that is nearby, because it is safer, more quality. We want to tell the consumer that it is also in his interest, because this way it is given to Slovenian workers and farmers, because in this way the full state-owned budget, because this is food-safe and is also the fight against climate change, because in food production, transport is the largest polluter. The law, which will regulate this in a way, "as long as the food producer draws the country so close to communicating with its consumer", is so far away that a public debate is concluded. Tomorrow, on the Agriculture and Rural Council, comments will be reviewed and the law, although it will not have the support of all housing organisations, so I have decided to proceed to the procedure to the Government and to the National Assembly. As a country, we can demand clear labelling, not in all areas, but in most areas, and then we declare it. We cannot limit transport within the European Union because hygiene rules and labelling rules are to some extent uniform, but we can inform the consumer. At this point, however, what is important is a very large debate or, in my opinion, it is necessary to restrict imports from third countries. Therefore, for example, South America is an example of this, because it works according to completely different standards, as regards environmental protection, animal welfare protection and food safety in particular, we do not think that the buyer on Slovenian and European shelves can have two different categories of food products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you. Yes, please, would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u146	I'd like to thank you for your answers. They were quite comprehensive. Given the complexity of the problem, we know that we cannot resolve this with such a debate, so I propose a broader debate, which I would like to prepare myself more. I believe, however, that the rules of the World Trade Organisation, the International Fund and the European Union still do not sufficiently prevent unfair competition and that it would be appropriate to launch one broader debate, which could be better prepared for itself and for the rest. I therefore propose a general debate at one meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Magajna to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economy and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. And Dr. Peter Verlic will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you. Dear Minister! This question would probably not have happened today if this flood had not occurred to us recently because of the rain. Even centuries of water is probably no longer centuries old, but floods appear to be much more frequent and far more dangerous, with more devastating consequences for people and their property. It is good that firefighters and Civil Protection did their job, so at least this sense of security was greater and really all thanks. Well, since the water protection sector, the department you just took over at the Ministry, is probably now, after that time, probably has occurred for a time when you were able to assess the damage, and you probably also assessed the work and measures in the field of flood protection in the Republic of Slovenia. And I want to know: What measures, what legislative measures, as well as other, financial, construction measures, any of them from the point of view of placement, are you planning at the Ministry or even wider in the Government to increase this safety of people in connection with floods to the extent that watercourses are in their shafts and people do not feel threatened? In fact, there is a sense that many things have been pointed out by the congregations. In fact, it seems that the municipalities were more aware of the problems, rather wanted to solve things in the past, but that somehow, I don't know if at the level of the government, the ministry, which, if I'm not mistaken, was in charge of regulating watercourses and protecting them from floods, was not the kind of communication. I therefore also ask you in this regard: Are you planning on having municipalities directly take over part of this water management, at least as regards the construction of flood protection facilities against high waters, repositories, river treatment, and so that the funds will be allocated directly to the municipalities from the state budget, so that the municipalities will then solve these problems themselves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u150	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Dear Dr Verlich! We've talked about this before, maybe we should talk about it. In a short time, one such small summary, a reminder of the activity may be given. We have some common regulations, regulations, laws for this area. However, the laws, as you say, mean nothing if there is no application of a profession that is partially inseparable in law, but in practice it is also known, but unfortunately the whole thing is still connected to money. Water management has already been very wisely arranged and set up since the time of Mary Teresa. We know that we have inherited quite a good Austrian order in this area, which is relatively effective, but look at the miracles, 1990 we have become innovative and with this innovation we have reduced the country's money four times and made some reorganisation that I do not know if it has been the happiest. In this transfer of responsibility and tasks to the concessionaires, the role of the municipalities may have been somewhat different, even though once the local community was the one that was the main institution or organisation of the local communities, even though today the municipalities still have jurisdiction under the Waters Act in the management of meteor water, these buildings in flood areas. Here is a powerful instrument of the congregations now to obstruct the construction of floodwaters, thus preventing severe consequences and returning that old wisdom when people were producing food on the fields and building houses on the hills. Whatever we are thinking about reorganising this area, it is certainly necessary to work at making as much money as possible within what the country can afford. So this is about amending the Act on Concessions, amending the Water Act, including changes in the price payments on water rights according to the OECD prices, which should slightly increase our funds, we estimate that by at least 50%, let's say some 50 to 60 million per year, which is still not enough. I have also said one question in my reply to Mr Barovic. In order to engage the owners of the surrounding land as well. As I said before, it was already in the time of Austria's paradise that they were obliged then to dissipate their shore on their land properly, under some professional supervision and assistance, to arrange, it is said, a cost to dissipate also to owners. As I mentioned earlier, one assessment is that only 100 million euros would be needed to rehabilitate existing facilities that protect us from floods. But I'm sure there's at least that much new construction. So it's big money, the 0.4 GDP that used to be, is a real number. It is said that somehow in the country we should devote four times the amount of funds to this problem. Here is the help of municipal companies, which are also welcomed by about 50 per congregation, for it is difficult to engage congregations without telling them what tools it is with. Now that the municipalities have joint utilities, this is also one of the possible future partners in dealing with these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much for, I appreciate that quite an encouraging response. Of course, I call on you to fight four times as much against flood protection within the Government. Believe me, people who live in houses today and look up at the sky when it rains will be more than happy with it. Why did I point to this problem and this question? If money is a problem, I hope that some legislation can also achieve that these projects are put in place as a priority. One very significant example is the congregation of Groupela. I don't mention it because both of them come from there, but because there was one extremely positive and negative, if I may say so, the case. And it was in one congregation that fortunately took it cheap in these floods. Why? Because there were two retainers to be built there, one was a Beetle holder, and the other was a Great Stream holder, both should be financed by the state. One was then built by the municipality with its money at the expense of the state, and this village, where you were at home, remained above the water, while the other village is still shaking today because it has to be built by the state, which is the holder of the Great Stream. Therefore, as such a classic case, a request and a call may be made that, indeed, what you said, the municipalities and the government, the ministry will find this communication here and, above all, the means to carry out flood protection projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u154	Of course I'm worried about the congregation I live in. But as with her, I will also pay attention to other congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the Minister of Justice Mr Zalar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Last year and this year there have been several rebuttal cases that have raised public doubts about the effectiveness of the Slovenian judicial system. For example, the disputed return of two offensive Bulmastifs to the owner, because there have been more violations of the laws and not least to a judgment under an invalid law, but not to this day, have not answered the fundamental question of what is going on with our rule of law. In the media, we are witnessing more and more frequent reports of cases where the competent judicial authority does not respond on an official basis and that the rule of law applies only to one another and not to the other. The latest TV show Viewes on national television said, among other things. We have a class that can do anything. Also, legal expert Dr Miro Cerar Jr. said in this broadcast that the rule of law is weak and cancels in various segments and that the rule of law needs to be pursued more intensively if there is no movement in operation, this problem will increase. I summarise these questions to the public on this TV show and ask you as the minister responsible for justice: Have you taken any action so far? Which and what measures will you take immediately to ensure that the competent judicial institutions operate in cases such as those highlighted in the TV series Views of Slovenia on RTV Slovenia on 14 October 2010, namely in the illustrative alleged cases: the case of Bineta Kordez's letter on the agreement of the ownership of Mercury between Sava and Mercury, the case of Danil Toplek, the director of Talum and the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor, as presented in the broadcast, the case of threats to the journalist of Finance Jaki Elikan and the case of threats to the journalist of Officer Dnevnik, Mrs Vesni Vukovic, who said that those with money and capital would no longer be advertised in the Journal if these cases continue to be reported. I find it horrifying that someone in a position of power, especially from the position of capital or money in this country, can achieve everything. Regrettably, what Dr. France Bučar pointed out was before he said that the leadership of this country was taken over by those with money and capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dear Member, first of all, I would like to agree with you in your assessment that we must all, Parliament, the Government, including justice, do more than we have done so far, so that the rule of law will function and, above all, that the perception of the general public about this rule of law will be more positive than it is today. In this respect, I can only agree with what Dr Miro Cerar, Jr., mentioned, is the Vice-President of the Council of Justice and can do much in this role when it comes to the functioning of the judiciary. However, as regards the specific issues raised in relation to specific cases. Mr Member, you certainly know that, as Minister of Justice, I do not have the authority to act here either as Minister or as a member of the Government in specific cases. On the contrary, if I did, I would be in grave violation of the Constitution. However, on the basis of this question of yours, I have tried to obtain an explanation from the competent authority, and this is primarily the State Prosecutor's Office. You know that in our country, the State Prosecutor's Office has certain powers in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings, is an independent body and is also independent in assessing whether there are sufficient reasons, i.e. there are grounds for suspicion or reasonable doubt, to initiate appropriate procedures. And since you mentioned the case of Mercury, let me read you the answer of Attorney General Sanja Javor Pajenk, who sent me in this regard. She wrote, and now I quote: "With regard to your questions on the state of affairs data, we are sending you the following. Firstly, the ownership of Mercury is subject to a forecasting procedure involving a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime. Secondly, the case of threats to officers of Finance and Officer Dnevnik is not dealt with by the Prosecutor's Office. Thirdly, the District Attorney's Office in Ptuj also examines the case against the person you are exposing for the continuation of the criminal offence of fraud under Article 217(2) of the Penal Code. This case is in addition to the police." When we all jointly assess how criminal justice works in our country, it is difficult to disagree with the assessment that the situation could not be improved, particularly if we look at the joint report on the work of state prosecutors in 2008 and 2009. It is also our assessment that the effectiveness of prosecution is too low, too large for rejected complaints, for the long-term procedures they are conducting, and finally for the relatively small number of convicted persons. So what can I do as Justice Minister for greater efficiency? Above all, I need to provide an appropriate regulatory framework to ensure that justice works effectively. And that's what we're doing. Among other things, you will be briefly considering the new State Prosecutor's Office Act and the new Criminal Procedure Act. Both strongly strengthen the powers of prosecutors, not just powers, but responsibilities. This is one of the shortcomings in our system, according to our assessment, that, in particular, the chief prosecutors, so the heads of the prosecutions, are not responsible for the poor work of the organisations they run. This will certainly bring about a new law. In addition to this news, let me draw attention to one which the National Assembly has already adopted, namely the amendment of Article 160a of the Criminal Procedure Act, which allows the establishment of specialised investigation teams precisely so that the prosecution can be more successful in the prosecution of organised or, above all, economic crime where cooperation is needed not only with the police, but with the tax authorities, customs authorities, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Anti-Corruption Office and other authorities. This regulatory framework has been established by the National Assembly and, of course, it is now primarily the Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office, to make practical use of this provision. That is why this Thursday the Government will adopt a specific regulation on the compulsory cooperation of the prosecution with all the bodies listed above in order to be as successful as possible. Of course, the Government's efforts have not yet been completed. Here I must mention the establishment of a specialised section of judges to assess these cases and is in the final stage. I hope that the Council of Justice will also assign these judges to this group in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I ask you this because you are, in fact, the first legal guardian in this country. At least that's what I understand. That the rule of law exists or does not exist, of course, we cannot force anyone to do so and convince him that there is or that there is no one. Slovenians and Slovenians are simply creating a picture of the rule of law themselves on the basis of the work of the competent authorities of the judiciary, the prosecution, the police and so on. You know, there are x cases where, of course, the competent authorities react very quickly, I could count them down to something, and I support it, and that's good. But unfortunately, there are also x-cases where the competent authorities don't want me to say they don't even fold. I could count a few of these cases here today. One of the eccentric or in the sky-screaming is Patria, who has been dragging like the yoke of a snake for several years. One would expect it to be over before the next election and that this affair will not burden another state-run election, but let's leave it. Sometimes you get the feeling that this is somehow conditioned by political affiliation, but also by capital and by capital power, which exists in the background. You know, people get really scared because we've watched these and similar cases so far, mainly on television from some neighbouring countries, such as Italy, when we were watching the Mafia. The Mafia is acting that way. We've established a National Investigation Office. It's late. Where is this office in some of these cases? You'd expect this to be investigated and I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: When will the competent authorities for the door take on these excruciating cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u162	First, I need to correct you a little bit in the Patricia case. In my view, the competent authorities have begun to act, but now sparrows on the roofs are also chirping about the criminal proceedings that have been initiated. However, when it comes to the National Investigation Office, you refer this question to an inappropriate minister. Indeed, none of these authorities, not the National Investigation Office, not the Prosecutor's Office, not finally the court, can do anything on its own if the entire chain does not work. Now who in this chain does not do their work in a specific case in a timely manner is, of course, a question where it is possible to find answers only on a case-by-case basis. It is not possible to generalise, and only when you ask me specific questions, such as you have asked me in the introduction, where I have also given you specific answers will it be possible to check whether someone has really not done their job. And if so, of course, as Minister, I will do everything to exercise those powers, the supervisory powers that the Ministry has in this regard. In general, it is not possible to say that no one is doing anything and that nothing is going to happen in this area. This is not confirmed by the statistics on the functioning of justice in us, but not least by the specific judgments of the courts in individual cases, but we can also read about this in the media every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u164	I would suggest that this response be discussed by the Minister in accordance with Article 246 in order to discuss the functioning of the rule of law a little more closely. I think that would be necessary. In fact, even sparrows chirping in branches today, this has been said many times in this hall to be truly in the background of some networks running this country. And nothing happens, we can't make order in this country. That's worrying. Despite the fact that journalists are very clear and very precise about the various matters, no one in this country is moving and nothing is going to happen. That's not good. I believe that this needs to be talked about, especially when the rule of law is at stake and when we find that the rule of law is not the same for all citizens in that country; when one is the case, the other is not. It applies to those who do not have money, to those who do have money, to those who have money, to those who do not have money, to those who do not have money, to those who do not have money, to those who have money, to those who do not have money, to those who have money, to those who have money, to those who have money, to those who do not have money, to those who have money, to those who have money, to those who have money, to those who have money, And that's terrible. We'd better talk about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Žerev to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Franco Yuri, there is no Foreign Minister. You're still going to ask a question? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the fact that there is no Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think that the question is very topical and I expect to receive an answer in writing as soon as possible, because this is an extremely important matter and it is good for other ministers present to hear about it. This is actually an issue addressed to the Government, despite the fact that the right address is the Foreign Ministry. On the website of the multimedia centre RTV Slovenia, in a report on the meeting of Ministers for Defence and Foreign Affairs of NATO members held last week, they also publish the following: "As regards the establishment of missile defence, Minister Žbogar said that there is no final agreement yet, but a broader consensus is being formed. One of the open issues remains: how to include Russia in the missile shield project, with which it wants to substantially strengthen ties. For Žbogar – I quote still conscience – "the cost of the shield, which is €2,500 million, is acceptable. According to him, Slovenia supports this project because the shield that will protect Slovenians from possible rocket attacks is always welcome." With these statements by the Minister, which I particularly appreciate, I am interested in: Is the missile shield supported, which is a well-known long-standing American project and probably one of the country's largest arms and nuclear industry projects? I want to know: Is the Government’s official position also reflected in its support for this shield? And: When was this position adopted or confirmed in the National Assembly? Does this support to the missile shield also mean the financial participation of Slovenia and how much would it amount to? Maybe 200 million euros? Does the support of the missile shield also mean Slovenia's readiness to offer its territory for the possible installation of nuclear spikes? I hope I get answers as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you. You'll get the written answer you wanted. Mr Ivan Grill will now raise the question of a Member of the Minister for Health, Mr Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! It is known that the Oncology Institute is one of the most expensive institutions in Slovenia, it has cost over €90 million, it has been building unreasonablely long and we now have it in use for about three years. As we know, they are constantly faced with problems caused by the water network, or they have water of challenge that is infected with the Legion. That this problem is present, we all know for a very, very long time. However, this raises the question of why the ministry is here – I have in mind your predecessor in particular, for at that time it was known that the problem was in the destroyed water network. We also know that we have also obtained a bank guarantee of EUR 2.3 million, which could be cashed from SCT, for which the first man, Mr Ivan Zidar, we know that he has a salary of over EUR 800,000 per year, that is almost EUR 3,000 per day. We also know that against such a company – which is responsible for having water in the Oncology Institute, that we have a water network destroyed – the Ministry has not decided to implement it and that the water network has been repaired. As is known, at least from the means of public information, a certain part of this bank guarantee has already fallen; in November part of this guarantee is expected to fall back again, which means that after a month or two it will remain only part of what it would be possible to cash. So I ask you in this regard, if you can answer me: Why hasn't the process of rehabilitating this water network started yet? What will be the actual cost of replacing the water network? For what amount of bank guarantee has it expired by now or will it be in the near future? And: When does the deadline for cashing out this bank guarantee expire? In fact, it seems unacceptable to me that, in the event of insufficient activities of the most responsible, bank guarantees would fall and that, after all, the whole rehabilitation of this water network would, as usual, have passed on to the burdens of Slovenian taxpayers. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u170	Mr President, honourable Member, Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the banking guarantee issue you asked me about, I'm going to give you a little more information. In fact, in 2008 the Ministry of Health acquired a bank guarantee of 2 million 273 thousand and some, which expires in 2025, with a maximum share by 2011 – about two thirds of these funds. The first flight, amounting to €140,000, 755, was due on 6 April 2010, two days before you appointed me Minister or confirmed me Minister of the National Assembly. This left us with a good EUR 2 million of bank guarantee, which, as I said, will expire in 2025 as a whole. I find it difficult to agree that we have not resolved any errors in the facilities within the guarantee period, but it is true that it would be difficult to agree that they have been resolved quickly and efficiently enough, and finally the problem is still here. As Minister, I wanted to find an optimal solution and I have, in my opinion, planned these activities so that the problem would be fully solved in terms of managing the problems of both the water system and the climate system. For the recovery on the water and climate system of the Oncology Institute, a performance report is being prepared with proposals for remediation of water and climate failure in H, R, D and N facilities of the Oncology Institute. The deadline for the preparation and submission of the report is 20 October 2010, i.e. three days after the contract concluded by the Ministry of Health with the Slovenian Construction Office. This Treaty provides that the following questions will have to be answered in the expert opinion. Firstly, what is the actual state of the water and climate system at the Oncology Institute? What is the cause of problems in the functioning of the water and climate system and how will the hospital be provided with adequate functioning of the water and climate system at the Oncology Institute? So we need to value recovery, taking into account economic and technological explanations. They circle numbers like you mentioned, but not from this study we ordered. I expect that this opinion and report will provide answers or guidance on the question of which method of recovery is most appropriate. But I guess the question is, why did I make that decision? In particular, we wanted to obtain an expert opinion and prepare a report on the basis of an agreement on a joint expert review of water and climate errors at the Oncological Institute of Ljubljana, signed jointly by the Director of the Oncology Institute, myself and Mr Zidar as the representative of the SCT. This agreement concluded that, after the third independent professional institution, the existence of all actual errors on the water and climate system should finally be determined; that it should be examined whether these are hidden errors or errors covered by the SCT guarantee statement and possible causes of errors. On the basis of this implementing opinion and the decision on the type and method of recovery, a project will be drawn up by signature and a cost assessment of the recovery will be provided. So, by the scheduled deadline for the next flight, which is until 11 November 2011, I am sure that we will receive this report, on the basis of which we also agree on how and in what way the rehabilitation is to take place, and, hopefully, we will finally resolve this truly long and sad story about the Oncology Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u172	Well, since I explained in the introduction that it is a responsibility, that it has not certainly acted on your predecessor and that this is so, the fact that a thorough study was also made last year, which also showed that the water network was destroyed. Mrs Žlickar received this study, but she obviously did not act, although she could probably act. And here, lastly, the question raised in public by even a well-known surgeon will not be called that if Mrs Žličar acted on the same matter as the Ministry, it would be the same as her predecessor. If someone accidentally tries to plug his nose into things related to the SCT with Mr. Zidar, he is subject to sanctions, which means replacement. It means that's probably how it would have happened to her. Therefore, the question arises to me unwittingly: Are not all these new procedures, studies, reasons for delaying the whole thing so that a large part of these guarantees will also expire? And I'd have another question if you could answer it for me. Given that you have indicated that Mr Zidar is also involved in this committee or in this tripartite agreement: If, I am sure of that, a network error is certain to result from a bad past work, will SCT undertake to recover this water network from its costs, regardless of bank guarantees? Are they now actors here, who will in some way contribute indirectly to making a good impression in public, and eventually bank guarantees will expire? The dogs will bark, the caravan will move on, and we'll pay the taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u174	I sincerely hope that's not the case. This agreement, which will be three-partite, obliges the signatories to submit their questions to the Commission and that the Commission's proposals will also have to stand by their decisions. So far, the analysis or analysis that you have mentioned to the other two partners, both the Ministry and the SCT, has not made this commitment, so that this could be the basis for cashing out the bank guarantee. So I hope that this approach that we have taken will still succeed within the prescribed deadlines and that in the remaining three weeks or the good two weeks ahead of us we will reach an agreement on resolving this key issue, whether it is actually a hidden mistake and how much of these possible errors could be attributed to poor maintenance. I hope that most or all of them are in the first place – that is to say, some hidden errors and that these errors will then be eliminated before the possible cashing of the second lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u176	It would certainly make sense to have a general debate on this issue in the National Assembly, where all of these things could be reconsidered. However, as I am sure that the ruling coalition of this proposal will not support, I am proposing a different procedural proposal here: if we, the honourable Minister, when you have all these studies, can also provide this to Members of the National Assembly, especially members of the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you. Well, that wasn't exactly in line with the rules of procedure. So you're not suggesting a general debate on the Minister's response, as I understand. That is why we are moving on to the next Member, Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Darji Radic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! In the 2011 and 2012 Decree on the State Assets Sales Programme, 25 % of the shares in the Slovenian steel industry are among the legal entities envisaged for sale. The book value of the state share is slightly less than EUR 40 million, and the state owns some more than 248,000 shares and at the time of sale 55.35 % of the stake in the Russian Cox Group has secured a controlling share. Thus, although the foreigner had a majority share, Slovenia has so far ensured a decisive role in this strategic system, which is good. This is very good, since he has the last word for the most important decisions. Now he obviously wants to give it up because he's going to sell it. This planned sale in a way is surprising, after the parties currently in power, in the previous mandate, to sell the system of the Slovenian steel industry, have objected significantly to it and have sought to criminalise it in the previous term. It should be added that in these three years the Russian owner has invested more than EUR 300 million in the system of the Slovenian steel industry. If, in the past, this system were sold to Prevent, Kovinotehn, Mercury, and others who were planning to enter the system through the consortium, there would be another rubble or rubble in Koroška today. The system of the Slovenian steel industry has tried to sell several times in the past, otherwise it was under a different name, namely the Slovenian ironworks. Recall that some sold it for a single euro or dollar to a company in the Cayman Islands. In the past, the country has invested more than half a billion euros in the rehabilitation of this system. Indeed, most of the money has been used to rehabilitate state banks, where we are thinking again today about the rehabilitation of these banks — or today we call it recapitalisation. Today the system of the Slovenian steel industry works well and the country could also receive good dividends from this system. That's why I want to know: Why sell the remaining control share of this system, since this can mean that the vital functions of this system will move elsewhere in the future? Why sell this in times of crisis when it is difficult to reach an appropriate or sufficiently high price? I also ask the Minister: Who's the potential buyer? Is it the majority owner so far, or [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] And at the expected low price, is anyone in your political circle a respected minister? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm going to have to answer many of these questions - for one reason at a time, because no discussions with any buyer are currently taking place. In view of the fact that the sale of the Slovenian steel industry itself took place in the previous term, it is said that this 55.35 % share in April 2007 was sold, but you would expect to know that in this contract, which was concluded at the time, it is also stated that the Republic of Slovenia has an irrevocable and unconditional sale right for a period of five years from the current contract and that the buyer will also purchase the remaining shares of Sij at the written invitation of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it was stated that the purchase price should not be lower than the sales price, amounting to EUR 190.73. For this reason, because this five-year period is now due to expire 2011-2012, this potential sale also came under this scheme of sales of state-owned assets. At this point, however, there has been no discussion and no specific intention of selling this share.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you. Would you like a refill? No, no, no. Mag. Majda Potrat has a question for the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I refer my question to two ministers, in addition to the Minister for Higher Education, to the Minister for Culture. Information on the implementation and financing of the activities of Slovenian language lecturers at foreign universities, which was prepared at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, raised several protests when it came to the public. First the Faculty of Philosophy and the Centre for Slovenian as a second or foreign language. In addition, the Association of Slovenian Writers, the Public Book Agency and SWIZ have expressed their disagreement with this information. What's this all about? For the 2011 and 2012 financial years, the government is expected to reduce the resources required for lectures by EUR 500 000, which would further reduce the network of lecturers by 10 to 11. At 53 foreign universities in 27 countries there is a lecture of Slovenian, and at 23 universities there are studies of Slovenian at the pre-graduate level, at some also at the postgraduate level, according to a master's and doctoral study. A reduction in resources would mean that the activity should be reduced. I therefore ask both of you, the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Minister for Culture: Is the intention to reduce funds for the operation of Slovenian language lecturers following the objective of consolidating Slovenian in higher education and science, which in the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy 2007-2011 provides for efforts to promote Slovenianism in foreign universities? What activities are taking place with regard to the proposal for a law on the functioning of the Slovenian programme at universities abroad? What are the effects of the established working group, in which there are no representatives of universities and business operators, that is to say, neither the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana, nor the Faculty of Arts in Maribor, nor the Centre for Slovenian as another foreign language? Thank you both for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you. Who's first? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members! The theme actually aroused a lot of public attention. That wasn't unexpected. However, qualifications, evidence of the reduction or elimination of lectorates were unfounded and also incorrect in terms of the information they were referring to, and which, by the way, was not a secret, but was made publicly available from the first day of the government procedure. In short, no one has made any decisions on the abolition of lecturers. What the MVZT does is to provide sufficient resources, preserve and properly establish a network of lecturers abroad. We have made a number of important moves in this mandate, aware of the importance of this area. Since 2008, when the funds amounted to €1.2 million, we have increased to €1.7 million and €1.8 million in 2009 and 2010. It is true, however, that in the 2011 budget, which was recently dealt with in the National Assembly, these items are reduced by half a million euros. This is due to the reasons, or circumstances, in which – both the President of the Government and the Finance Minister spoke extensively about this at the presentation of both budgets – the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, as well as many other ministries, which you have heard about on committees where budgetary issues have been addressed, have a great deal of difficulty in covering the so-called fixed obligations within these frameworks, and everyone is trying to take best care of those areas which are entrusted to the Ministry with some care and funding provision. In the information we have prepared before the time, at the moment we were informed of these budgetary frameworks, we have not announced the abolition of the Lecturers. We have noted these facts and have taken the initiative to form an inter-ministerial working group. I would like to point out that not just the working group or as the question has been asked, but the Interdepartmental Working Group. And the Interdepartmental Working Group may not be a member of the Interdepartmental Working Group; however, the Interdepartmental Working Group, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the academic Žekš, will be part of this Interdepartmental Working Group, which will be composed of representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also academic Žekš, representatives of this academic sphere of both programmes or universities from this field, will be involved in this work through the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. This working group is expected to be formed by the end of October. I expect this week or no later than next week this information will be dealt with in the Government. By 31 January, however, this information is intended to provide for a solution, i.e. how to provide the missing financial resources for the continuation of funding for the existing network. It will draw up national guidelines for the long-term development, operation, establishment or possible abolition of individual lecturerates. So far, this has not been systematically and systematically regulated, but has been the result of many ad hoc decisions that lead to a network that, according to many, is not quite optimal, and this problem is exacerbated at the time of tightening public financial frameworks. Some of the other issues addressed in this context will also be addressed by this Commission and proposed to the Government for solutions. In short, the participation of all stakeholders will be ensured, and the debate will be substantive. The option of abolishing individual lecturerates will remain relevant and this working group will also deal with this only if we fail within the Government and this interdepartmental working group find appropriate alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. Well, I would like to add to the fact that the abolition of a significant number — from 10 to 11 lecturers — of the information contained in chapter A. Chapter B also mentions the number of teachers – 30 – who are employed in Slovenian universities and 21 teachers in foreign universities. What particularly upsets the reader is that, in Chapter C, it is written that this is not the primary substantive activity of the Ministry responsible for higher education and that the absence of national policy is mentioned. But I refer to the national language policy programme, which in the chapter on the consolidation of Slovenian higher education and science, is the 10th objective, in point g of the statement, "the effort to promote Slovenianism in foreign universities," and here is the holder of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, not the Ministry of Culture, which is the custodian of the resolution of the national programme and plays an important role in the Public Use Act of Slovenia, not even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology of the one assigned to it. I am not saying that the present resolution is ideal and that it follows everything. But this was the first resolution on language policy; and if we follow the goals of humanism, national science and everything that is happening in foreign universities, in lecturerates and in Slovenian science, then it is not an insignificant activity and it would require that the necessary resources be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you. Would you like a Madam Secretary? Mr. Minister? Make it happen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u188	If we are not allowed to be confined to our own kindergartens, when it comes to language, or lecture, or elsewhere, I think we need to be connected and useful. The Ministry of Culture resolution, but also the Ministry of Culture, should consider these issues. That is why we join this issue. At the same time, honourable Member, I think you are one of the few that you have correctly defined with this question of the Member, because everyone else has understood the question of lecturers as a write-off in this sense, whether we will be without a study of Slovenian, and you have precisely stated that this is an opportunity to reduce funds. But this group, which is supposed to be called an interdepartmental group, I think it will also be able to examine those facts that may also be exciting. Disturbing within the statistics that show that lectorates may have developed non-strategic or disproportionately, that there is only one listener in one lecture or that there are fewer in another country, in another country, and that this may need to be rectified, which we will undoubtedly be able to listen to or participate in at the Ministry of Culture as meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u189	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u190	Inside time, darkness is certainly important. I believe that it will continue within this group and beyond. The fact is, what is written here and you quoted in terms of the controversial or not-so-intentional competence of the Ministry of Higher Education in this area is an assessment that seems justified to me. In fact, just when we discuss the situation in which we are in, when we have to think about how to provide these funds, and in the event that they cannot be secured, I hope that this will work, the question arises which area should be the one that, in cooperation with these external stakeholders, of course programme holders, weigh the meaning of this network and so on. We have found that we cannot do this to our ministry according to the criteria by which we judge higher education institutions here in Slovenia in a corrective way. That is why we have included this wider interdepartmental group, which, among other things, should determine how the correct field of lecturers for the Slovenian language abroad should be placed in order to include the resolution you are referring to and other directions in the field of language promotion – and the type of tasks these lecturers carry out and are exposed to in this discussion and far exceed only the field of learning of the Slovenian language abroad – in order to be adequately addressed and that the Government may give them appropriate and deliberate attention. It's the ambition of that dictatorship, not that anyone would want to get rid of responsibility. As I mentioned, we have done a great deal in the past two years of our mandate to improve the position of lecturers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Žarnić, and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you. I will ask both ministers about the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana, because an agreement has been signed that it will be a "guest" for all others, and I think that then things need to be done transparently and correctly, so that there will be no later errors. Minister Žarnic, after testifying before the committee of inquiry, you told the STA that you did not have Darsov's consent, so you did not take it into account. It is also stated in this report that you have not received any other comments from the space regulators, so this is a plurality, one of which is the consent of Minister Golobic, who signed the agreement 7. 5. The comments to this same plan are then dated 4 days later. Since you were not aware of these comments, of course you could not call on Minister Golobič to verify that his comments were taken into account. It was similar with the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. You followed one of the opinions issued before 1. 7th, not the last one issued by the Minister of the Jews. Seven. Article 51 of the Law on the regulation of premises provides that operators of spatial regulation must send opinions to the Ministry and to the municipality. In some cases, we found that he was sent only to the congregation. Even more, they were given after the deadline for obtaining opinions. I don't think there would be any such confusion if you were to follow the Law on the Planning of Space. The result of this was, of course, that the spatial plan of MOL, which was adopted and then also confirmed by your decision that it was not issued, is therefore not adopted in accordance with the law. In addition, a number of amendments were adopted after the adoption or at the time of the adoption of the city council, which substantially changed the provisions made by the space regulators. I want to know: Why haven't you given me the answers we agreed on at the time, and you got them? Why have you also violated the prescribed procedure with multifacetedness and thus caused the space regulators not to be able to monitor the spatial plan process? But above all, I want to know: Why is the city congregation so special that you have even signed a document that you have issued? You signed it on Monday, and the document bears Friday's date. And: What do you intend to do about it? In this regard, I have already asked you, after the measures you intend to take as Minister. I also ask the Minister of the Jews about the measures and what will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u194	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members of Parliament and Members! Thank you very much for the question, which, because of the great interest in the public, also deserves a multiple answer, even though the answer is quite similar. To your question – I checked the matter, today before the meeting the answer to those questions came from our ministry. They told me they sent him. Maybe they sent it today or yesterday, and it hasn't come to you yet, but it's on its way. Briefly and generally, as is true for Ljubljana, as well as for everyone else. The procedure for preparing and adopting the municipal spatial plan is determined, as you yourself said, by the Spatial Planning Act 2007, 2008, 2009, with additions. The legality of the implementation of this procedure shall be the responsibility of the municipality and not of the Minister for Environment and Space. The task of the Minister of Environment and Space in this process is to establish, in addition to providing guidance and opinions on the field of development and issuing opinions on the process of determining the acceptability of environmental impacts under the CPVO procedure, the coherence of the proposal of the municipal spatial plan. In this procedure, the Minister shall, on the basis of the opinions of the state-owned spatial regulators within 30 days of receipt of the proposal for a municipal spatial plan, establish consistency by decision. Where the opinion of the state-owned space regulators indicates that their guidelines are taken into account in the proposal for a municipal spatial plan or that the rules in their work areas have been duly taken into account in its preparation, such a decision may be issued. If the opinion of the space regulators shows that their guidelines have not been taken into account in the proposal for a municipal spatial plan or that the rules in their work areas have not been duly complied with, the Ministry shall, within 7 days of the deadline, say Day 37, propose to the Government that it decide on the harmonisation of the proposal for a municipal spatial plan. Within a one - month period, not all the documents that came to us and we had an insight showed disharmony. With regard to the implementation of the rule of law control, the Plan provides that, following the implementation of the municipal spatial plan, space regulators are obliged to verify for themselves the respect of their opinions which they have given to the proposal for a municipal spatial plan. If they find that the municipality has not complied with the opinions, the competent ministries must, once again, exercise control over the legality of the municipal spatial plan in accordance with the law governing the State administration. Where the competent ministry carries out such control within 6 months of the implementation of the municipal plan, it shall not be necessary to propose a solution to the law governing the State administration and to set a deadline for the harmonisation of disputed municipal spatial plans, but may immediately propose to the Government that it request the Constitutional Court to initiate a procedure to assess its compliance with the Constitution or the law. As a comment, if our ministry finds out about his segment, it will. When establishing consistency in those first 30 days, it was not found that the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana would go around one of the opinions of the state-owned space regulators – those who were delivered to the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is true that some of the opinions that the municipal municipality, which we later carried out, received during the preparation process of the municipal spatial plan were not explicitly positive, but sometimes it was also an example of state authorities which were not on the list of state-owned landowners published on the ILO website. In addition, some opinions were not issued in accordance with the PP plan, as they do not refer to regulations in their work area. In addition, the Ministry has not received any opinions from the institutions [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] the setting up of the space, as you have determined, but then they were not able to be identified. [[...]] Operators of space management are also required to provide opinions to the Ministry of Environment and Space, and they are not [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u196	And then I'll ask the Minister of the Jews to say something. Well, Minister, if that's what you say. We will first find that you had until last Friday deadlines to answer me, and by then there were no answers, then we sent you an emergency room, and it is possible that you have now sent it, but until today I have not received it, but yesterday I doubt that your colleagues were doing anything that they could have done yesterday. If you say that it is not the minister, but the congregations are obliged to care for the legality of their responsibility – then why have many Slovenian congregations been waiting for your consent for years? Then just give it to everyone, because they have to answer for themselves to do things legally and in the right way. And what did you say if, together, on the committee, we found that the Minister of Higher Education had given his consent in which he wrote that he had no comments and in five days he had given his consent in which he had comments — yes, and you asked him? You're sitting in the same government! And the same goes for Mr Jew: Have you asked the Minister of Public Administration, who has also given an opinion? It is clear from her letter that she forwarded it to you at the Ministry, and you have not seen it and you know nothing about it. That's pretty much it, condescending, and also putting the responsibility of someone else. Then tell me if during this time, then within six months, you find out whether or not the ministries and other providers of space management have been breached: What's going on with the O.N. at the time? Does it apply once published and enter into force? I have news that on the same day that this was adopted in the municipal council, Mr Gajšek, Head of the Urbanism Department, was in charge and carried out by bicycle with a lawyer, where contracts and various matters were deposited, from which some will receive commissions that are valid and that they will be able to carry out all legal transactions. I want to know: What's with all this legal business and the O.N. at all? Is it or is it not valid until all of this has been verified? Because if you publish it — in eight days or fifteen days!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Jew, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u198	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ICGP is only one of the providers of space regulation that gives guidance and opinions. According to our available information, there's eight. 10. published in the Official Journal by the Ljubljana Open. We're 13. 10. Ask the ILO to send us the adopted acts in electronic form to enable us to see, because the municipality is obliged to send the adopted acts to the ILO. We're gonna do exactly what I promised you at the board meeting you're running. As soon as we get the officially accepted version, we will review it once again to see whether it is in accordance with our guidelines and opinions issued. You also asked me at the time about the Institute of Forests how it is with this opinion. The Institute for Forests gives a direct opinion, not through the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but it is true that we are funding it, so we felt competent to ask it for an opinion. He checked the last proposal with an opinion he issued, the last proposal is a coordinated but finally adopted version, as soon as we get it, we also forward it to the Institute of Forests to verify it by an opinion he issued as the Institute for Forests. If everything is going to be okay, then the matter is so fine, but if it is not okay, then, clearly, further progress; it is through the Government that we suggest that the matter goes to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Jarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Look, I have to say that I didn't write or accept the law, but I have to stick to it. And I assure you, even if it is necessary, through my respective representatives, that I have adhered to the law and will abide by it. If anything is going on in Ljubljana City Hall with or without wheels – I am not a cop, nor am I obliged or authorized to hunt bikers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u202	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold an interview on this reply from Minister Žarnic. I know that many mayors in this country, or the new ones will deal with it, have great problems with the adoption of the UNJO precisely because of the coordination both at the Ministry of Agriculture and at the Ministry of the Environment. However, there were so many versions and so many changes in the municipality of Ljubljana, and everything was so expressive that things were just amazing. Therefore, you will not convince me that on the last day, just before the matter is taken up on the municipal council, you will sign a document that is very important to my notions, even if you say that it is not possible and that it could be done without it. So the mayor said that the saints don't need it at all – then I don't know why he's waiting for you, then he could just accept it as he thought he would. And especially because if we do so and if it is a customer for all the other municipalities, because I still think that some things were illegal – you have acknowledged the anti-dating – and this will have to be determined by the authorities responsible in this country. That is why I have also predicted that what is the matter with the Commission and my cause will be done, and I will also press charges to see whether these suspicions of a crime exist or not. Above all, I would really like to talk about these answers from the Minister, because I think this is a rather pressing problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you. On the proposal by Mrs Jeraj to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space of Dr Žarnic to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will now ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Križanič, an absent person. You're still going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u204	Yes, Mr President-in-Office, I would still like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u206	Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to ask a question of the matter before you, Minister Dr. Franc Križanič. With great disapproval, a decision was taken to reduce the coordination of pensions by 50%. This disapproval was essential in the DeSUS Group and the Democratic Party of the Retired. Likewise, with great disapproval, it is accepted that pensions are intended to be completely frozen. On this subject, I ask the following question: What was the budgetary savings due to the intervention measure of half-coordination of pensions so far, i.e. after the first coordination this year? We are interested in a specific number, an amount that means savings in the budget because of this. We want to know: Is it already known that pensions will be aligned in November? And also: What would be the percentage of coordination and how much funding should be provided for this coordination from the State budget, of course, given that a lot of different data and many different numbers have emerged in the public eye lately? However, we believe that accurate data on this year's pension coordination savings is essential, not least because of the envisaged pension freeze, so that this information is urgently needed. 28. 9. 2010 was adopted by the Act on the conversion of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and on the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and of the Slovenian Compensation Company, which sets out the purpose of spending the funds to be provided by Kad to ZPIZ, i.e. directly for the coordination of pensions. The share of the funds needed for the coordination of pensions will therefore be available for us to draw from Kad in the coming year. What will happen to the 50 million that Kad has to direct to ZPIZ and are therefore legally designed to harmonise pensions if there is a total freeze on pensions? Is this 50 million taken into account in the draft budget or in the draft law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis? The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, is following a meeting of the Government on 28. 9. 2010 said that the Government will take appropriate measures to ensure that those with the lowest salaries and pensions can live with dignity. We want to know: Are concrete measures known to prevent this? Mr President, I would only like to ask for a written answer to this question because of the current subject matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you. You will receive, as you wish, a written reply from the Minister. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, who is present.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u208	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! At its 18th urgent meeting on 8 July 2010, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons adopted a decision to propose to the Government at its 18th urgent meeting on 8 July 2010 to examine the Employment Relations Act and the Economic Companies Act and to draft a proposal for a solution within three months to ensure that workers are adequately protected in terms of their rights. This urgent meeting of the Chamber was called upon by the initiative or request of the Slovenian Democratic Party and was foreseen in a large salon on Tomšičeva Street, where a direct transfer of the meeting was provided. However, there has been an incomprehensible change of location and a meeting has been held in a Chamber where it is not possible to provide a direct transfer only so that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are not aware of all the dimensions of this problem, and in particular that the current government and coalition would conceal that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one to address this important issue and to propose appropriate solutions at the same time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the question of setting up straw companies when parent companies transfer their employees to straw companies without any capital and without the consent of the employees is unacceptable, as employees in such a case are left without a law of certain rights, these are behind wages, regress and severance. This is unacceptable and legislation in this area needs to be amended. In particular, there was one case and more at the time, this was a subsidiary of SCT, where 120 formerly employed in the subsidiary SCT without their behaviour for a year and a half worked in the company Constructor of VG and CentralGrad. This company went bankrupt and it was only then that the employees found out that they had lost everything. And there are many other cases like this. Since the adoption of that Decision, no solutions have been reached in that area since the three months have elapsed. Mr Ivan Svetlik said at this meeting: "That is why I think the problem has now turned out to be in the most negative light and he pointed out that legislation here is weak, not only labour legislation, but also the one that regulates economic societies. And, of course, it is right to move very quickly to resolve this issue and to eliminate these black foxes. And I believe that in a very short time we will also be able to make appropriate proposals to address this issue." So, Minister Ivan Svetlik, I ask you: When will appropriate solutions be prepared and proposed with regard to ensuring adequate protection of workers with regard to their rights, in accordance with the decision adopted by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on 8 July 2010? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u210	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Pojbič! As far as I know, this question, at least as far as communication with the Ministry is concerned, was opened by Pergam. This was followed by action at the level of the National Assembly, and when the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons adopted that decision, an expert group was formed immediately, including the social partners, with the task of examining possible solutions within the Labour Relations Act. The Ministry of Economy has announced that they do not see the problems themselves as regards solutions within the Company Law. This working group met five times and also offered the Economic and Social Council a twice solution. For the first time, they were not satisfied with it, and there were certain differences between the social partners themselves, so we decided to continue the work of this group. Well, and then this task force came up with a solution that's mostly in the next. Firstly, even if the transfer of a company significantly deteriorates the conditions of employment of the acquirer, the worker may cancel the employment contract and retain the same rights as if the employer cancels the employment contract for business reasons. Secondly, the continuity of the legal situation of the workers taken over shall be explicitly defined as a basis for the exercise of labour rights, such as that the worker has not changed his employment, since both the setting of the notice and the dismissal period as well as any other rights relating to working hours shall take account of the working time of both employers. Thirdly, in terms of preventing abuse in practice with regard to the establishment of straw companies, when a company establishes a subsidiary with a minimum basic capital, transfers the activity and workers to it and then the employer takes the acquirer to bankruptcy or another process of forcible termination of the employer is initiated and workers are deprived of all rights, as the basic capital is not sufficient to pay the claim, the employer's responsibility is determined in solidarity. It is established for the claims of workers arising from the termination of the employment contract due to bankruptcy or forcible termination of the acquirer if the bankruptcy or forcible termination procedure is initiated within two years of the date of the transfer. However, the amount of claims is limited to the amount that the employer of the transmission should pay to the workers taken over if, on the day of transfer, they were to end their working relationship for a commercial reason. Solidarity responsibilities are limited in cases where the transferor can influence or could influence the business decisions of the acquirer, while in other cases where the transferor is not the main owner of the acquirer, the subsidiary responsibility of the individual is established. This is briefly the content of the solution agreed on by the working group with the participation of all social partners, and this solution was offered for approval by the Economic and Social Council on 12 October, that is to say less than a week ago. This was the 197th meeting of the Economic and Social Council. Unfortunately, this solution has not been supported by the social partners, although it has been coordinated in the working group. It was not supported and not supported by employers or assessed as insufficient workers. That is why, of course, we have lost the support of the social partners, even though they themselves have advocated this solution and have confirmed it in an expert sense. That is why we will introduce the proposed solutions, which we believe are appropriate, into the system of amendments and the updating of the labour legislation that is in preparation and will be launched by the Economic and Social Council in November this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you for that answer, Mr. Secretary. So, I read it here in the officers, but I didn't get an answer to that fundamental question that I posed at the beginning. The point is that this whole issue that we're talking about today has been at the forefront for so long, and I just don't understand that this whole thing can go on for so long. And no matter what you've told me you've met so many times in the Economic and Social Council, but in the end you've reached a point because you just haven't taken any solutions. And you said that you will implement something that the Government has proposed into this labour law. I wonder when this law will come into the parliamentary procedure. Three months from the moment we met, so when the Slovenian Democratic Party convened this urgent meeting of the Labour Committee, the family where we opened this issue, there is no one to this day – and you, too, today in your reply, have not assured: When will this law come into the parliamentary procedure? But you said you haven't reconciled anything with the Economic and Social Council. And then I ask myself, and I ask you, Will it then be possible to support the government's solution here in the National Assembly if most of the social partners are against such solutions as you propose?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u213	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Pojbich! This question, which you are now asked, should really be asked by the social partners [[...]] [[Clutches from benches]] No, I am just one, I represent only one of the social partners who proposed the solution, as said, coordinated by all three partners in the working group. [[...]] Why the social partners, representatives of the labour and employers' sides have decided not to support these decisions, you have to ask them. However, the question, which concerns the Ministry of Labour, whether or not the social partners have not adopted and supported these solutions will go forward with this solution or not. At this point, as we say, we believe that the debate in the Economic and Social Council is better, and also the debate in the Economic and Social Council has been held in this direction by some participants, and that a comprehensive solution is then sought within the framework of changes in the labour law, including as regards this issue. That's our judgment. Otherwise, as you know, you are taking your own stand in the debates several times so far for social dialogue, to take into account the opinion of the social partners and we have this opinion. The opinion is that they do not support these solutions, but they do not have a better solution, and no one has suggested it better. That is how we are currently in a state where we need to find a good or better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojibich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u216	Dear Mr. Vice President! So, Minister, the answer you gave me can't please me. Absolutely not! Because what you've said, and it turns out that there is simply no solution to this problem that we've been talking about today and that we've been talking about for quite some time. I am sure that, on the one hand, the Government, on the other hand, the Economic and Social Council have enough quality experts who could find more appropriate solutions to this problem, but it should be if some solutions have been proposed, for which you are all assessing together, except the Government, that they are bad, that they need to be changed and found new foundations. But this can't last a year, now this thing has been going on for three months and more, and it's going to be until the end of the year, and all those who have created these straw companies are going to do their jobs nicely and the thing will be the way it is. At the end of the day, I wonder if even the interest of someone in this group is to delay this matter as far as possible and these changes would not have occurred. That way we can do what they want. I just don't see another answer to this question! And look, Mr. Minister, when it comes to freezing social assistance when it comes to freezing pensions when it comes to freezing wages – there is no problem! This is taken care of quickly and, simply, there is no problem with such proposals. You will come to Parliament as soon as possible! There's no problem for that! I now have a concrete proposal. Mr Minister, then ask the Government to prepare one concession and hand it over nicely without a invitation to tender to Golobič Ultra for the import of freezers. Do you know why they import freezers? All pensioners who have a pension of less than 500 euros, all those who have social assistance below 500 euros, and all those who are unemployed, must have their mouths frozen. There's no other solution here because these people don't even have money to pay the bills, so we can buy anything at all! So if we're going this way, we're going to freeze everything, and then we're going this way. We can still use all the skills of our Prime Minister here, because you can see that he is an excellent lobbyist on the one hand, on the other hand, I think he is also a very good merchant and a commercialist on the ground. As he intervened with the SCT, he was supposed to intervene here, so that we would get these freezers very cheap and qualityly, so that even when people freeze, they would have no consequences. Let's do this again! We have heard today, and I cannot say that Mr Zidar paid 800 000 euros this year, which is 800 000 euros in revenue for the previous year, but I have calculated that this is a thousand 600 pensions for 500 euros. We all miss it like nothing happened. My dears, I propose a broader debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Marijan Pojbic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 19 October 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. He will raise the question of the message to the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I have a question for the next hot topic. When they received our citizens and citizens first experimental calculations of the value of Slovenian properties, which revealed many shortcomings of public records in connection with property in Slovenia. In our opinion, all this is too much, all too much of this irregularity, to be overlooked in such a peaceful way. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the ideal leader of this project, has introduced discomfort and concern among people. I believe that the Government is in a hurry to arrange these matters for us to finally come to order taxes in this area, but, of course, we note that a detailed inventory of properties was carried out a few years ago and should provide most of the data, while the biggest error occurs precisely in the area of property ownership. Dear Minister, it would be wise for someone to take responsibility for this situation that we have come into and that the property valuation project would be carried out normally, in line with expectations, because in our view it has been carried out very superficially and inconsistently. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: What measures will you take under the auspices of your department to address the current situation? Who do you think is responsible for the situation? Who will be responsible for the EUR 15 million spent if this procedure goes back from the beginning? And of course: What measures are being followed in the field of public records and registers harmonisation? We have too many of these, and it is even more obvious that their integration and regulation are only somewhere in the beginning, that this merger and regulation have failed, if this were to succeed, would probably be much easier to resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u219	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u220	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members! I don't think we agree on one basis – I don't think it's a failure. I mean, look! When we went into this project, we knew that our original sin was a messy land book. If the land book had been arranged, things would have run smoothly. We're even professionally surprised how things turned out better when we were afraid. In fact, as I said before, so far there is only one complaint point, it is said, one thousand complaints to the data, and 0.1 dismissed the complaints to the value. This is negligible within all statistical errors. I believe, and I expect that by the end of this story, it will be possible to pass that percentage, but it will still be a small one. In fact, I understand that it is not in the people's interest to have exact numbers to pay taxes on. On the other hand, it is of great interest for citizens to know what property they have. As we've heard before, manipulation is possible if you don't know what your property is. So, in this project, it was conscious that it was known that it was impossible to hit 100%, thousands of thousands of thousands, and the whole story went under the assumption that adjustments would be needed. It may have been a problem with the census, but, you know, when people wrote it down, while the censuser and the owner were talking about what to write down, it's going to have to pay less. It is said that the unordered land book, the poor connection of the land book to the cadastral, the inactivity of the owners in the input of the data. And another thing, the land book itself does not correct obvious errors — a girl’s last name and a marriage name. I think that a proposal to amend the Land Book Act should come before Members in a short time. However, the state has given timely warning to the citizens and many of the citizens who have come in this crowd have left calmly. Where was our job's error, anyway? The first mistake we can all see is that the portal where you enter repairs is a little awkward. We are already correcting this so that you can click on an icon that will immediately take you where you specify your code and so on – a technical problem. We have also learned these days, and we have begun to give easier messages about changing properties on the telephones as well. There was the biggest incursion in Ljubljana and Koper, where we strengthened the staff. Moreover, the time for comments on value will be extended. The other comments are, however, permanent. The system is so connected that when you change something in the land book, it will automatically shift. A more appropriate real estate registration law will have to be adopted within a short period of time, in order to technically pool the records. For this law with us, we expect to present it to you next year. The merger of records depends on financial matters, I must tell you, we keep repeating, but unfortunately in the budget of this money it does not yet appear that the state of hardware and software and maintenance is almost below the limit of capacity and the whole system can collapse. Here you will have to step together at the state level, including with your help to invest, because if this happens, the problem is. The poor graphic accuracy of the earth’s cadastre is also present – we will still have to work on it. Water land problem. As an interesting detail, however, it must be said that many records were made many years ago with the Cobol software, and today these people are typing into their hands because there is no converter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor, which will address the question to the Minister for the Environment and the premises of Mr Rok Žarnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic! At the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, you replied to my question on the resolution of the rights of tenants in denationalised and residential housing that you already have three options for possible solutions and that you can therefore expect your immediate proposal to deal with this issue. During this 20th session, you orally informed me that you have already fulfilled the requirement of my question of mission and that you have submitted three proposals to the Government. It's been almost a month since your message, and I haven't received any further answers from you or the Government. So I ask you again: What material and suggestions have you already provided to the Government to solve the problem of renters in denationalized and renters in residential apartments? Is this just a matter of ideal solutions, or is it already a matter of prepared marriage proposals? When can we count on the Government to decide on your proposals and propose them for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly? If the government has not yet considered your proposals, what is the reason that they are not yet? When can consideration be expected? But if you don't know that: What will you do to ensure that the government no longer postpones this issue for an indefinite period of time? And: Will and until when, if you have not done so, you make concrete proposals for amendments to the housing law or a new law? This would deal specifically and explicitly with the correction of the injustices caused by the 1991 housing law to tenants in denationalized apartments and janitors. The lack of funding cannot be the only and eternal excuse that this problem has not yet been resolved. If the rescue were to take place 20 years ago, I would certainly be saved by now. I know, Mr. Secretary, that your ministry is not the only one who should be handling these issues. I am also aware of some of the insufficient efforts of other ministries and of the judicial authorities after all. But basically it's just your responsibility and I'm gonna enforce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u223	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Your Honor, this is the story of the goat snake now. And I'm sorry that we can't possibly get to the happy end, so maybe I'll just take this a little bit more chronologically once again to make it clear to everyone where the problems are. So to speak. On April 12th, very soon after I took the floor, the first question and the first answer were already. At that time, we have made some proposals for solutions, as I have already said, and have already evaluated them, and in view of the financial implications, we have found that the estimated number is EUR 570 million. So much for the number. In September, we met again with this issue, and we also know that the European Social Charter and the European Committee on Social Rights are back there, and the Ministry of the Environment and Space proposed a solution to the situation by sending the material to the Ministry of Labour, the Family, social affairs already 3. 8. However, this material had not yet been included in the government’s meeting. The last time we discussed this, I got the wrong information during the meeting that the matter would be in government that week. Unfortunately, this proposal has not yet reached the government. I am sorry that there is also no minister in charge here so that perhaps he can help clarify this problem. I think that even the matter will have to go in the direction of – by talking to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour – of a new law which will have to define and define precisely this compensation and this commitment or commitment of the State. This is a decision that we, one of those three middle-aged people, have seen and proposed somewhere. In order not to wait for this law, however, we are working to supplement the Regulation on the allocation of non-profit apartments for rent. In this Regulation, tenants in denationalised apartments would be given an additional advantage. We're working on this rule right now. I guess I'll just say it one more time. Until this government meeting, I'm gonna try to figure out where the whole thing was. As you yourself have said, I am very afraid that the main embarrassment in relation to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and the funds we are talking about, which I think would be a long time to do with the appropriate law so that it would not be a serious financial blow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u225	Mr. Potts. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it's worth asking you a question every month because the information you gave today is really not new to you or to me. We know everything, we've heard everything, you've explained everything before the National Assembly. I am not saying that it is unrealistic, but it is not new; and what is worse, it shows that there is, in fact, no special effort in you and in the Government to solve this problem. I think that once the European Parliament has accepted its assessment of the responsibility and guilt of our country for not solving this problem, the willingness to resolve it should be greater. Mr Minister, once again, I repeat that only financial questions are not allowed and are not the only ones. You have also proposed 3 different solutions, which have three completely different evaluations. One is to regulate a rule which in fact means nothing but that part of the allocation of dwellings will be shifted from one category to another. And if this were achieved, it would not require a single euro of additional funds. So, here's an excuse for resources can't be merodible. I would ask you to provide your services to ensure that they once again assess whether there are legitimate claims that housewives are not subject to the right and the possibility of obtaining housing under the housing law. In fact, the University of Maribor has been doing a thorough study and has rejected your findings. Your people in the Ministry keep saying that. And second, about the other two solutions. You know well that you have received from the Housekeepers' association warnings that have shown that your evaluation of how to solve the problem of housewives is not appropriate. Please, let me re-evaluate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u227	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you very much. As I said, on this rule they have finally begun to work intensively. As far as budget money is concerned, we all know that I have no special big word here – but we can do it together. But with regard to housing: one thing they say to me, as you said, Maribor something else. It is likely that some legal opinion will have to be sought on a neutral ground, I do not know which court, and this will have to be concluded once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Mr Rok Žarnić and Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, on 4 October, an ecological industrial disaster occurred in Ijka, Hungary, when the rubble at the disposal of the red mud from the clay factory collapsed and appeared to be a solid guest due to the ticsotropic change in the aggregate state of the surrounding village. A mud dump like this — all over the world, the clay mills are called haldes, as in Kidrichev — with more than two million tons of red mud for the Kidrichev dikes. Due to the mentioned ticsotropic properties and the general danger of interventions anywhere in the world on these haldes do not build objects, even though they are abandoned and green. It's different with us. Managers in the Talum and associated persons – regarding the Director of Toplak today, the President of the Government has escaped, although his candidate is in the elections for the National Assembly, to give an answer – and their connections go to the tops of the current government and also to the members of the National Assembly. These persons, as private investors on the farm owned by the state, built two photovoltaic power plants and the third and fourth are in the building. I'm asking: Were all the permits granted for the third and fourth? According to some information, a large part of the construction operations are carried out in direct and anonymously at the expense of the State Talum. Due to interventions into non-removable soils and heavy loads on point foundations resulting from wind suns along photovoltaic panels, there is a risk that, under certain circumstances, rain and wind, a ticsotropic change in the aggregate condition of the red mud and, consequently, a situation similar to that of Hungary. I want to know: What parameters and what geomechanical research have been carried out to issue an agreement on the construction of power plants by the Environment Ministry and other administrative authorities? What interventions into the soil and embankment did the ministry allow in view of the fact that the laying of cables from the shells into the Talum factory was being carried out? Have the administrative authorities taken into account the potential for catastrophic consequences of the disaster in Hungary when issuing the consent and building permit? What are the investor's obligations in terms of ecological and general safety when issuing a building permit? Have the issuing of a site and building permit by administrative authorities respected strict safety regulations for the management of hazardous substances or have the political and logistical links of investors enabled shortcuts? In view of the fact that, after the processing of the boxite, the owner of the land of the holding was the Fund of Agricultural Lands, I am interested in: How was trade or land-mixing conducted, and who represented the State’s interest? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u231	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Because of this power plant, they're watching me with one and the other real, but it's okay. The first time this happened in Hungary, I immediately, on the same day, called my associates and asked them if there was anything that could happen to us. I got an answer that calmed me down as far as the accident was concerned. It's been in Tallum for 20 years, which is the end of the technology process of extracting aluminium from boxing. This means that for 20 years no new liquid red mud is put off because the Talum does not produce the clay, it is purchased on the market. Regarding what happened 20 years ago, however, the earth is slowly neutralized, 40 - to - 50 - inch [50 cm] - dried red mud, which is no longer active, is covered with soil and permeable. Therefore, the so-called red mud landfill, which is concentrated, dried and covered, has the status of a closed waste dump, as decided by a 2009 decision. However, this Decision sets out the obligations of the closed-deposit manager, Talum, including the signing of monitoring, the obligation to inspect the body of the landfill, maintenance and security, and the regular annual reporting of the situation on the ARSO. Monitoring is carried out by the Environmental and Nature Inspectorate in the framework of scheduled regular inspections once a year and I have no data or I have asked if there are any dramatic results. Now, about the power plants, then maybe in general. It's a very interesting thing. When we asked solar power plants to have building permits – this is not a criticism of your question [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] How? [[...]] Yes, anywhere on the roofs — the matter was problematic. [[...]] [[...]] As an earthquake engineer, I'll tell you that I'm worried about a power plant in Fala that's been built by someone who knows what rules. That's what worries me personally. But all right, that's the way it was. But this is how it is about specific matters. Tassolar from Kamnik was an investor of the first power plant, which is from the Ptuj Administrative Unit on 20 October last year, is said to be one year ago, and on 8. 12. 2009 was first awarded a construction permit, it is said in October and December. The second power plant, the investor of which is Vesol from Kidričev, is built on the basis of a building permit issued by the Ptuj Administrative Unit on 20 July 2010 and is in the final stage and is clearly not yet in service. For the third power plant to be built on the site mentioned above, the investor is C&G, an energy company from Ljubljana, submitted an application for a building permit with the Management Unit Ptuj on 4. Ten. 2010 and is in rescue. Each of these plants has a rated power of 999 kilowatts and spreads on the surface of two hectares. Regrettably, the detailed documentation for the preparation of the building permit is said to be geomechanical, I have no design, but I was not prepared for such a detailed question, and I do not have it, but we can also obtain this specific technical information and present it to you in writing. But as for equity speculations, I'm afraid I can't answer at my best, because I don't know anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u233	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u234	Nor did Mr President of the Government want and could not answer, he did not want to be responsible for the speculations of the same managers. However, Mr Minister, what they have prepared for you is partly correct. By the way, I was the last leader of this Police Department, the director of the then Police Department, and I locked her up. I also made a product that is made instead in this Zeolit factory, and I know the behavior of the red mud as well as everything else. I was cheated there and then pushed out of the factory because I didn't let myself buy it, bribed that others could have owned it wildly, but still. Red mud has very special physical properties. Just like the aluminum silicate and the other side. When under pressure of physical force, it turns from a solid state to a liquid state, and this is a permanent process. On this basis there are also reptiles in the clay fields, you know that on a flat slide the earth can. It is therefore an underestimation that everything here is clear, playing with people's fates and natural disasters. Of course, I see through you that these privileged people, these people, get all administrative, construction permits right away – of course, this is a state factory, Talum, it works undercover and so on. It is sad that the government has this attitude towards a potential disaster. You know, these plates are set against the wind. There can be wind waves and these physical pressures turn the strength and this host into liquid. This happened in Hungary. If this authorisation has not been complied with, then [[...]] [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u235	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thanks for the heads-up. As a technician, I take such warnings seriously. What we can do is we can try to find a technical answer to these claims; we are somehow quantifying. I'm going to talk about this, and we're going to meet up with some expert, and we're going to talk to him, and we're going to see if this rollover scenario is possible, and the gravity shifts are possible, and whether the designers have even looked at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u237	Mr. Jerovšek, a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u238	Mr Minister, based on what has been prepared for you, of course, your answer has been within the right framework, but it is a major social problem. And these shortcuts that some in this country can do and play with fate and dangers that can lead to disaster. Finally, I must tell you that this clay factory in Hungary is also a silent, cover-up, straw owner of half of the factory in Kidrichev, Silkem, the one for which I developed production. I stopped the wild property twice, then they found the bend, they got me out of the factory, and they found a bend across Hungary. Of course, this power, and many others, tolerates everything. But because of such things, where the potential danger is very great, it is not a game to play with – Hungary has taught us, even there this guest has been very dense, you know, although it is still a functioning factory, but in some situations it has turned out to be hundreds of thousands of cubicles. Here, too, the Drava field may be flooded under certain special circumstances. I see that without every review, without any judgment, because these are real, dedicated persons, they get permits just like that, through the thumb, it's big profits, subsidies. Your information that the third and fourth power plants are expected to be completed by the end of the year – how different funds are used, which are not so severely private, but ownership is a private, of course, second question. For this reason, I think we should at least try to understand in this country what is going on, what are the processes, the privileges, the exploitation of state property for the benefit of private owners, what shortcuts can be used, what state authorities do for permits, while at the same time they are the best paid people in this country, in state companies. To at least be aware of this, I propose that we hold a general debate. By then, you will be able to prepare more in your response. But please don't just rely on what they're going to tell you there, because I know how the answers to SDK used to be there, always, on farm tourism when there was an audit. In rural tourism Emeršič were auditors, not in the factory and so on. We may be moving one step closer to trying to protect this country and the people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I think you also suggested that this be discussed. On the proposal by Mr Jožef Jerovšek to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 October 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, which will raise the question of the question to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, we have talked a lot about the Kyoto Agreement in recent years. He was very up-to-date, so we can say he was just a sledgehammer. We all supported it, but only those biggest countries, the United States as the most developed, Russia, China, and they did not support it. Then it came to pass that some then joined and, last of all, joined the United States of America. Of course, we considered it politically, but the time went on. The fact is that we have dealt with this very uncritically in Slovenia, especially some. Now, however, the second phase of this Kyoto Agreement has come, namely the fulfilment of the obligations set out in this Agreement. This means that in the event of non-compliance, i.e. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the State must pay a fine or, as is well called, in the form of some emission vouchers or CO2 coupons. Given that Slovenia will have to pay a fine or buy around €11 million of these CO2 coupons due to greenhouse gas emissions in 2011, some experts are forecast to have to pay less than €11 million, but this number will be significantly higher, I ask you: How will you provide these funds as the Minister responsible for this within the Government? Because if we have to, we'll have to pay. Unfortunately, the European Union is unforgivable and if we commit to something, we have acceded to the Kyoto Agreement ourselves, and I can say that we have been rooting for even stricter criteria. So: How will you provide these funds? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u241	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u242	Your Honor! Three days ago, I was in Luxembourg, where the Ministerial Conference was on this subject, and I must tell you that there are also some large countries in Europe that have a CO2 issue in their pocket, and I will not say again. Ministry – we are the ones who want to continue to have this matter quite radically. So, at the time of the preparation of the 2011 and 2012 draft budgets, our ministry prepared a proposal and a justification for the inclusion of a new budget line to provide funds for the purchase of Kyoto units and allowances, as reflected in a letter to the Ministry of Finance dated 19. Seven. 2010 which I will read later. Our Ministry has also drawn up budgets for 2009 and 2010 in line with the Government's decision of 30 July 2009 on this proposal to provide budgetary resources. On 30 July 2009, the Government adopted an operational programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2012 and adopted a decision to provide resources of €13.5 million in 2009 in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to implement all of the operational programme for greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2012. €51.8 million in 2010, €53.3 million in 2011 and €41.7 million in 2012. We have proposed to the Ministry of Finance the establishment of the Climate Change Fund and new budget items for the purchase of emission vouchers. The estimated amount of funds required for 2011 and 2012 is, as you yourself said, EUR 11 million each year. These numbers are interesting. In fact, the economic crisis has suddenly shown that we are a little faster to reach the limit values for greenhouse gas reductions. This number could be kept somewhere in the framework of €11 million. I've counted some pretty amounts that are higher than the amount we need for coupons, four to five times higher. The expected sources of funding for this fund, however, are the inflows of the budget under the environmental levy on air pollution by the CO2 mission. Here, too, everyday problems begin. Twice, we've tried three times in the government, besides these taxes on industry, to impose additional taxes on fuel. We have had a sharp protest from one of the economic sectors, which is quite mobile and has a lot of power to influence our decisions. We are solving this somehow, and in 2011 I hope that we will sort it out in some way. We have a program. I sincerely hope that it will revive the Climate Change Fund and that these coupon money will be available within the appropriate time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u243	Mr. Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, I understand your problems, but I didn't get a direct answer. However, the direct answer is that for 2011, as far as we have seen, there is no tolar or euro in the budget, even for 2012. That's why I'm asking you what I'm asking, so I'm asking you this question. But not to embarrass you, because you have to say there's no money. You must have tried, your predecessor probably tried, but in fact there is not even a euro in this budget that we are considering. But surely some coupons will have to be bought, probably not as much as if there was no recession, but given that Umar is also predicting, I don't know, 3% growth next year. That is to say that this number will also increase with regard to the purchase of coupons. That is to say, we must not plan for this to be €11 million, because that is probably not enough. That's why I mentioned it. On the other hand, I wanted to point out something else. Sam, personally years ago, when we talked about the Kyoto Agreement, I drew attention to that other part of the commitment. Because when we adopt the Kyoto Agreement or certain agreements that have been negotiated within the European Union, we were Slovenians who advocated that we should save even more. Instead of a 20% savings rate of 40, the proposal also fell by 50%. But the resolution is one [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] And now it's clear why the United States was the one who resisted the most. [[...]] Because they knew precisely, their government knew precisely, the administration, that it also meant certain costs. But we obviously didn't realize it, at least some of you didn't realize it, and I want to say that such an agreement is quite simple, but then implementing this agreement is something else. Apparently, that hasn't healed up enough for us yet. I don't know now, Mr. Minister, how to vote in the budget on your part of the budget, but if there are no funds for these allowances, for those penalties that Slovenia will have to pay if this is not in the budget, but we know that there will be obligations [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u245	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u246	I have nothing more to say than to appreciate your help and your efforts for this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u247	Mr Marijan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Economy of the Magi a question. Darji Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The proposal for the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2 increases the minimum base for the payment of contributions to persons and working relationships from the minimum wage to 60% of the last known average annual salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia, calculated per month. The same increase in the base for the payment of contributions is also proposed for independent entrepreneurs and farmers. Notwithstanding the fact that a gradual increase in the minimum base for the payment of contributions is envisaged. For 2011, the proposed basis is 50% of the increased salary. This base would increase by 2% every year. If the law on pension and disability insurance is adopted in the proposed form, there is a severe additional burden on the economy, entrepreneurs and farmers. I'm asking: Are you providing the proposed severe additional burden on the economy, entrepreneurs and farmers, or will you do something to prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u249	Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that the drafting of the law on pension and disability insurance is not within the competence of the Ministry of Economy. The fact is that we have been involved in the drafting of the law on pension and disability insurance all the time. In particular, in order to ensure that any increases in the rates of contribution would not have too much impact on the economy, entrepreneurs in particular in these times of crisis. You know that the law on pension and disability insurance is passed with one very clear objective. It is only in this way that we will be able to renovate, and in order to reform pension and disability insurance, we can ensure the sustainability of public finances and thus provide the basis for ensuring a long-term normal standard of living. And, of course, this law must be respected and certain harmonisations are also provided for in this law. As you say, certain groups – here there is a need to stress certain groups of "entrepreneurs" in quotations, are called independent entrepreneurs, farmers – starting to receive contributions in a different way. Not more than the minimum base, but as you said; not from the minimum wage, but gradually from 60% of the last known average annual salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. When the calculations were made, we found that, of course, at the time of the crisis, such changes were not acceptable for these segments of independent entrepreneurs either. That is why, at the Ministry of the Economy, we have proposed that these changes should be introduced gradually, as is said in the coming years, when a higher rate of economic growth is expected. However, the fact is, Mr Bezjak, that this in fact eliminates one unequal or unequal taxation with other entrepreneurs, not least with all others who have to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. From this point of view, we consider this taxation to be appropriate, however, but we have advocated a gradual application. In this context, I think that this is a good solution, but I do not think that, because it will be introduced gradually, it will have a significant impact on the deterioration of the competitive situation of these individual groups of entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u251	Mrs. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you for your word and for your concern, Madam Minister. But from today we can read that in Slovenia there are effectively blocked 5,378 companies with liquidity problems. It is true and also right that you are actually thinking about this additional tax in order to be gradual – from 2012 to 2016 and so on. You're wondering in the government, aren't we a very expensive country? We are the most expensive country in the world, the most expensive country in the world. Isn't that a burden for the economy? Are you wondering if there will be any other company in this country? Isn't there enough reason to worry about economists? On the other hand, I absolutely agree that we are giving subsidisation to certain things, working time and so on. On the third side, we take back two times. I don't think that's a good policy. I also agree, as you said, that one balance is being set. We all know that a certain entrepreneur, s. p., now paid almost nothing. That is why we have also proposed in the measures a flat rate increase, which would then be, believe, the most relevant and fairer to all entrepreneurs, and certainly not by raising the tax rate now, which will add 10% to the increase or burden of the Slovenian economy, which will make it even more uncompetitive. Bureaucratation should be reduced. It's a condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u253	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u254	Mr. Bezjak, I have to intervene here. You are now speaking as if it were an increase in the overall, but this question concerns only individual groups, single entrepreneurs, as you yourself said in the question, farmers who have so far paid contributions from the minimum wage. And for these, believe me, this will not result in such a drastic deterioration in the competitiveness of these specific groups of entrepreneurs, so that they can say that the competitiveness of the entire economy will be compromised. Once again, you are referring to the crisis. These measures and these increases are foreseen for post-crisis time, so we said 2012 and there are still these coordinations when we rightly expect economic growth to exceed 2 and 3% again. See, the fact is, as far as contributions are concerned, if we are to ensure a certain standard, then we must also contribute something to this cash. And the pension reform and this law are prepared in this direction to provide exemplary pension and disability protection for our fellow citizens; and the contribution rates are set for this purpose. They are also exposed to ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances. However, he would like to say in this place, because I have little time left, that at the Ministry of the Economy we are committed to one change, namely the so-called cap, where the payment of contributions will be limited to the sum or gross salary of the employee or the entrepreneur. Why the cap? Because in this way we want to tax those salaries, salaries of experts, salaries of developers with one purpose to ensure that they remain in Slovenia, that they will love to create in Slovenia and that companies will be interested in hiring developers. However, we still have this measure in mind and I think we will be submitting it in a short time in the following year for Parliament's admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u255	Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thanks for the answer. I would ask that this part of the debate be held in the National Assembly as well. Yes, it is, Madam Minister, as you said, that the bulk of it is actually for minimum wages, for farmers and for those s.p.'s, who have now paid somewhat little. But what's gonna happen? By again, instead of paying in this way, they will pay off profits that will be taxed again. That's what's gonna happen. In any case, companies, whether these entrepreneurs, or farmers, will otherwise make money out. And that's a minus and not a plus for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u257	On the proposal of Mr Marjan Bezjak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 October, in the framework of the votes. The word is "ma'am mag." Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, who will ask a question from the Minister of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member, Member of Parliament, Minister, Minister and others! Recently, the people of Slovenia were very concerned about this because doctors were mass withdrawing their consent to work over full-time. The cancellations triggered the legal intent to slightly reduce payment for the watch. Doctors used the form prepared by the FIDES Medical and Dental Association to revoke their consents, with FIDES also referring to the provisions of the Labour Relations Act. The dramaticness of the present situation shows the letter from Dr. Rajko Kenda, President of the Health Council to the President of the State, in which he wrote, I quote, "we will avoid the anger that will be followed by the multitudes of sick, unhappy patients, some will even die. It's a reptile that we don't know at this point how many people are going to be buried underneath," the end of the quote. In view of the cancellation of the consents, it was necessary to suspend the operation of even oncological patients in September. From Dr. Kende's letter, we understand that part of doctors are willing to sacrifice their health and whole life in defense of their unjustifiablely high pay hours for duty. Unwarrantedly high payments, because it is no secret that it was up to a thousand 500 euros gross or more to be on call over the weekend. As a contribution to the Health Committee meeting last week, we received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It follows from the opinion that the form used by FIDES to trigger the chaotic state of health is such that it was not based on the relevant legal bases. To put it simply: if the doctor refused to provide continuous healthcare by refusing to work overtime under article 41 of the Medical Services Act, he also violated the law. It is unacceptable if the State does not act against the unethical treatment of some doctors who have violated the law and possibly the health and life of patients. That's why I want to know: Have you already collected information at the Ministry of Health that doctors have violated legislation on the provision of continuous health care? If so, how many of these doctors were there? What are the legal measures for violators of the law on uninterrupted health care? And: What can you do about lawbreakers at the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u259	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u260	Dear Presidents, Honourable Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! It seems to me that I will not be satisfied with the answer, I am not a lawyer, and in the legal questions that have been opened, I will not let go, but I am pleased that we have received a definitive answer on the committee as to whether or not an authentic explanation is needed or what the work obligations of doctors should be at 40 hours a week, but there may also be different explanations in the future. It is true, however, that no action could be taken unless someone directed and refused to do so. In short, let me just say that at the Ministry of Information, we haven't collected what you're asking. As far as these violations have actually occurred, we can only conclude on the basis of the information we have received from the operators in order not to do so. There would be a rejection when anyone in public institutions ordered a doctor to work in the number of hours, as stated, i.e. 40 plus 8. According to data collected by the Ministry on the basis of instructions prepared by the four ministries of non-binding interpretation, most of them followed the schedule of work prepared by the heads of staff, the professional directors and, somehow, the directors of the institution also confirmed it. Public interest in health is protected by the provision of uninterrupted health care if the employer directs overtime in accordance with instructions issued on 21 July and we also referred them to the directors – we have somehow confirmed it with the crisis directors and taken into account what the Labour Relations Act says – and the individual doctor would refuse to do a particular job, the employer could use the institutes provided for in the Labour Relations Act against it. This is, for example, a disciplinary procedure, a procedure for the regular termination of a contract of employment. So first, someone should determine the scope of part 40 + 8, if someone refused it, then there would be appropriate measures. This was not the case, according to the directors, at all the meetings we had. What can the Ministry do? What did I do as a minister? At regular meetings with crisis directors and later also at meetings of representatives in the Holy Offices, and in particular in those directly confirmed by the Government, we have requested that at the first regular meeting, which will be held, the action of institutions or administrations of institutions for the first ten days of September. On the basis of this data, we will be able to figure out what was going on at the time. In fact, the Ministry can introduce administrative supervision and assess the legality of the work of institutions, which would then also issue a decision setting out the measures, the deadlines for eliminating the irregularities found — for example, the granting of overtime in accordance with the Medical Service Act, the use of the correct form of consent for full-time work. The Ministry does not have the authority to administer overtime or to organise the work process directly in individual health institutions. For the organisation of work in a particular institution, including a specific organisation of continuous health care, a record of the hours carried out, duress, the Director or the Chiefs of Sections shall be responsible, if authorised by the Director. Of course, the Director must also take care of an appropriate record of the use of working time. The Director of the Institute is therefore the one who organises and manages the work of the Institute. In accordance with the Act on Institutions, however, the competent authority, i.e. the board of the institution approved by the founder, is obliged to discharge the Director if the latter, by means of his or her own unfavorable work, causes greater damage to the institution or if he neglects and neglects his or her duties, so as to instill or cause serious disturbances in the performance of the institution’s activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u261	Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u262	I would like to ask because the Ministry or Minister is the first to provide and is in charge of the exercise of public interest. If there is a violation of the law, even in this case, then such things are at the expense of the public interest. I am not a lawyer either, but I know that the Ministry must have a legal service to ensure that if there is a violation of the laws, it also prevents damage to patients' health or even death. In fact, we also had death threats due to some private interests. I would also like to point out that the previous Minister of Health in the introduction to the draft Law on Health Activities has listed a number of laws that are supposed to be violated daily. In this case, however, no epilogue, no legal epilogue, occurred. For this reason, I hope and place my trust in you, Mr Minister, to make sure that epilogues are actually made in this case, because otherwise there will be a lot of such cases and we will continue to experience them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u263	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thanks for the directions. Of course, as Minister, I will focus on the stability of the health system and that such cases will not happen. I also hope that we will come to the point where the directors of public health institutions and then the chiefs, including the doctors, will get what they want: a legal interpretation of legislation in this area. The government or three ministries and the Government of Law have made this clear. However, let me say in any case that this interpretation, including this number of hours at the current organisation of health care in Slovenia, along with the network as we have it, will also lead to problems with the organisation of continuous health care at 40 + 8 hours at the time of withdrawal. That is why my efforts go in the second direction: optimisation of the public health network, integration of operators, provision of adequate staff, and I am sure that, at the end of this mandate, the Government will give the right answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u265	Mr Samo Bevk will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Rok Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! This year we celebrate the 200th anniversary of the continuous operation of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana, which is celebrated as the oldest higher education institution in the country. Not only that, the university botanical garden is one of the most important cultural, scientific and educational institutions in our country. It was also declared a national cultural monument two years ago. After years of efforts this year, the construction of a plant for tropical plants, financed by the Higher Education Ministry, began in the jubilee year. Right next to him is an old 1955 plant that is sadly failing. He made plans for him as a seminar at Prof. Jožet Plečnik. This winter’s old planter is threatened with falling under the weight of snow, and it is now stricken from all sides. In spring, the Ljubljana municipality proposed to the competent services and the Ministry of Environment and Space that the earmarked money for a compensatory measure in order to remove the protected red-leaved beech at Opera instead of the initial planned rehabilitation of the Tivola pond would be allocated to the Botanical Garden for the reconstruction of the old plant. The Ministry of Culture agrees with this, while the competent professional services of the Ministry of Environment and Space insist that the money be earmarked for the rehabilitation of the Tivol pond. Last week, I looked at the construction of a new plant in the Botanical Garden and the sad image of an old vegetable. At the same time, in my view, the rehabilitation of an old plant is urgently needed, as we cannot imagine that the state-of-the-art facility would be a waste, which does not belong to our oldest, for 200 years, an uninterrupted functioning university facility. I suggest that Minister Roko Žarnic be given alternative funds for "operno beech" to rebuild the old plant. In this regard, I am interested in: Why does the Ministry of the Environment and Space not grant permission to use these funds in the context of the renovation of the Botanical Garden? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u267	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u268	Your Honor! Thank you very much for that question. It's very interesting, but the answer will be a little bit more unsatisfying. Indeed, the whole story began with the construction and expansion of the opera house, when the removal of the beech was by some system, that one public benefit would be withdrawn from another and that the necessary compensatory measures were necessary. This means, the investor, the Ministry of Culture, must take a compensatory measure at his expense. In 2004, this measure should be implemented in the wetlands near the Kosovo Bayer and there was a change of wishes and in 2006 the Government decided that this compensatory measure should be implemented in Tivoli Park, in both cases and in any event at the expense of the Ministry of Culture. With regard to the last proposal, however, the decision on the third amendment is not within the competence of our Ministry, but constitutes a change to the legislative administrative decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A legislative administrative decision may only be amended by exceptional legal means prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, taking into account in a specific case only the nullity of the previous decision. In order to amend the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is therefore necessary to carry out an administrative procedure, the part of which is a specific procedure for selecting the appropriate compensatory measure, in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act and the case law and the rules on the overall assessment of the acceptability of the impact of the plans on specially protected areas, which further regulate this procedure. In view of the above, there were no reasons for initiating the decision-making process of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the countervailing measure for red beech, namely the remediation measure, the revitalisation of Tivoli pond in Tivoli Regional Park. So your proposal, as far as I'm concerned, is perfectly logical and why not help the Botanical Garden. However, our ministry here has only been able to help by helping the Ministry of Culture to initiate the procedure in the Government and also by engaging its own resources for these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u269	Mr. Bevk, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u270	Thank you very much for your answer. Mr. Minister, I'm really not happy with him, as you've already found out I won't. Nevertheless, it was possible to combine these powers and the professional services of both yours and the cultural ministry would produce a common solution that would, of course, be beneficial to the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana, as this investment is now under way, which they have been waiting for in the Botanical Garden for decades. I would also suggest that you take a look at this case in your own nature, and you will see that with as modern a plant as it is now going to stand there, there really is no such thing as an old planter. Just the day I looked at this construction in the Botanical Garden, there were representatives and the director of the Botanical Garden from Zagreb, who saw how this work progressed so that they would do something similar. After all, it is the oldest Botanical Garden in Southwestern Europe, for 200 years an uninterrupted university and higher education institution with us, and it would be a little strange that we would not try to move things forward in this jubilee year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u271	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u272	Thank you very much. As I understand it, it is a search for resources, resources for a project that is always, as such, able to be fed. I understand that. But once again, investing in a plant is not a substitute for a red beech. That makes sense. But the replacement is a red beech somewhere else. It could be me in the Botanical Garden. However, unfortunately, we can help, we will help, I will talk to the Minister of Culture about what can be done, but all decisions and funding are in their hands and this procedure must be carried out in the Government. And here I am, agreeing on what I can try to be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u273	Mr. Anton Kolaric has the floor. He will put the question to the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! In Slovenia we have witnessed a broad public debate over normative changes in the area of ensuring safety at sports events in recent years. Calls for systematic regulation are louder after any major devastation, which is mainly caused by football derby, as well as by some basketball or hockey, left behind by organized groups of hooligans. In this regard, I ask the distinguished Minister Katarina Kresal: What measures do they plan at the Ministry to ensure the safety of sports enthusiasts at sports events? And: Do they also intend to draft a special law on fans? Measures to ensure the safety of sports events are already defined in several laws or we can bring them into these laws, from the law on public gatherings, the law on police, the law on the protection of public order and peace, the law on offences, criminal law and so on. Is such a law still needed about fans, or can it be resolved by some other law or by a change of law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u275	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! At the Ministry of the Interior, we are aware of this issue and are, in fact, the first among the departments to take legal changes seriously in order to address this issue for a longer period. No one else has yet gone completely, although the fact is that repression is the last in line to come. There is no way that this problem can be solved solely with the help of the police and the powers of the Ministry of the Interior. Above all, we are convinced that a comprehensive strategy should be developed here to deal with fans, to educate them, so we have already taken the initiative of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is competent in this area, to jointly develop a single strategy to address this issue comprehensively, where everything would be defined from the role and responsibility of sports clubs, to organise safety sports events, to train all players in sports events, to cooperate with fans and, of course, to support ferple, both at and outside the field. In short, this is one very comprehensive area in which more resources should be involved. As we have said, we have started because we are assessing that the police have little chance of action, so we are going to change the Police Act in this area. We are creating two new mechanisms, two new powers for the police, the first power to prevent the police from entering the scene of a sports event and the second power concerns the temporary ban on entry into the stadium for those fans who have been punished in the past for disrupting the games. The specific text shall be coordinated with the relevant departments. We expect that the changes will be ready by the end of this year and will be discussed accordingly in the National Assembly in the second half of next year. You also asked me about the concrete proposals we get from the ground. We have indeed received proposals from the Maribor Police Administration and we have included them all meaningfully in these proposals, which we are now preparing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u277	Mr. Kolarich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I agree that this is a multi-layered topic and that it is not just a matter of a repressive body and, as I understand it, changes to the Police Act. There will probably be a lot of other resources involved. But this is interesting; as soon as the idea of a special law on fans came up, they were all organized or at least three more organised cheerleading groups were very strongly placed in defense of the special law on fans, to intervene in some of their rights. This is about the Green Dragons, the Violets as the Celje Counts. I hope this amendment to the Police Act will suffice. Perhaps I would like to draw attention to the good practice that I observed years ago when the Liverpool Football Club hosted Ljubljana. At that time, a police inspector from Liverpool to Ljubljana, who made contact with both the Ljubljana Police Administration and the club's management, also came with famous, once sharp Liverpool fans. That is to say all fans, all possible offenders he knew and perhaps we would also work in this direction to work more with these fans to get to know them and then solve this problem in this way too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u279	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u280	By no means will it be enough to change the Police Act as it is said, repression is the last thing, absolutely we must work on a comprehensive strategy, working with fans, working with clubs, working with organizers. And I would absolutely cheer for a special law on fans. However, we also proposed to the Minister; well, this matter simply did not go so fast and now we are proposing a joint working group to work on it. If we don't do pre-prepared, we can't solve this with repression and it's just a dot on the i. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u281	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. The question will be referred to the Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Irmi Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that. All present, I mean, three ministers and dear colleagues and colleagues! [[adverts from benches]] There's a minister! I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Today I will raise the question with Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, on account of the Voluntary Act. A long time ago in July, the Ministry put into public debate, if I am very precise on 8 July, the Law on Volunteering and this public debate lasted until 9 September. This is the summer months when most volunteer organisations and volunteers on vacations or on voluntary work, and unfortunately some complain that they have not had the opportunity to comment on this appearance is very simple and simple, but it has very many gaps within it, which is also logical in terms of the diversity and diversity of all volunteer organisations and the number of organisations in Slovenia. It is clear that the interest that this public hearing should be extended is very great precisely because this law relates to a number of other laws and touches different areas, namely social protection within social care, within the framework of disability protection. Then we've got mountain paramedics here, we've got firefighters, we've got other people, we've got culturers, not least. Many public institutions have also participated in this public debate and believe that some things are not sufficiently clearly defined and that it would be good for the public debate to be extended precisely because of the definition of voluntary organisations and precisely because the status is not sufficiently defined, precisely because the safety and protection of volunteers is not sufficiently clearly defined and, last but not least, the safety and protection of the beneficiaries of voluntary services and activities. So specifically, I'm asking: Do you think it would be good to extend this public hearing?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u283	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. I hope that I will further convince you that there is no reason for any representative of any non-governmental organisation to extend the public debate. For, indeed, because of the special nature of volunteerism, which we have committed in the coalition to regulate for the first time at systemic level, and we have absolutely not interfered with the areas already well regulated today – it is a matter of protection and rescue and so on, it is a matter of volunteering at the systemic level in the broadest sense of the word – we have also approached this law in the preparation of this law, as well as the first system framework for regulating this area in a very special way. At the beginning of 2010, we formed a working group in cooperation with NGOs, and representatives of NGOs participated not only in this working group, which had 15 meetings in preparation of this regulation, but this working group was composed of representatives of different ministries and NGOs, while NGOs formed their working group as a consultative group for this working group of the Government, if I may say so. For it was attended by representatives of most ministries, which are most affected by this important area for a more solidarity society. On 8 July, when the law went to public debate, so prepared, in such a working group, we presented it together with a representative of a non-governmental organisation. We opened an online portal volunteering@gov.si, not only at the Ministry of Public Administration, but also the Slovenian Philanthropy as one of the members of the working group opened its electronic portal. In addition to the fact that these two portals were open all the time at the departmental ministry and then also at the philanthropy portal, there was a substantive public debate, according to a public presentation of the law, at the time of 24. 8. 2010 to 3. 9. 2010 These substantive public debates were organised in Kranj, Lithuania, Slovenj Gradc, Murski Sobota, Krškem, Koper, Maribor, Novi Gorica, New Town and concluded in Ljubljana. The public presentation was presented by the Slovenian Philanthropy, and at all presentations we participated representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, where we presented the purpose, purpose, main solutions and all the time we gathered comments from the participating civil society across Slovenia. We also responded to the invitation of the President of the State and the Youth Council, there we presented the law, and there NGOs at the President of the State made it clear that this was, according to their assessment, an exemplary example of the creation of a regulation affecting individual groups. All the opinions thus obtained, i.e. in public presentations, via the electronic portal, were addressed by this Working Group, also extended, at its meeting of 12. 9. 2010 and all these comments were reasonably summarised in the draft law. This law has already been submitted to the government procedure and it is envisaged that 21 will be dealt with by the Government. Ten. 2010 and then addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is very important for us to conclude this year's consideration and adoption of this first system regulation in this area, because 2011 is a year of volunteering, and at least here it was extremely important that we take this journey at this systemic level more ready to monitor this extremely important and for the society of solidarity and humanity of the work of individuals and organisations that we are witnessing to each other every day. Thus all these activities, three quarters of the years almost lasted, and in the way they were carried out they confirm the assessment that the law was ripe for consideration in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u285	Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I agree with you, Mrs. Irma. Volunteering is certainly a very important activity and activity that has a deep tradition in Slovenia and, last but not least, very many people in Slovenia are involved in the work of volunteer organisations. However, if we look at another across Europe, we see that the share of these voluntary organisations and individuals is far greater than, say, Slovenia, so we also need to take care of working with volunteers or in one way stimulating, motivating Slovenians and Slovenes and all other people living in Slovenia to speed up their activities in volunteer organisations and their way of awarding, not only through praises and rewards. Given that we are also enacting a law on climate change and that the predictions of some meteorologists, futurologists and all those dealing with the environment are expected to be so much greater, black-eyed and they believe that the natural disasters caused by water catch and other things will be. I think that work on the education of voluntary organisations and their education is welcome and very important. That is why I ask you, I am aware that you have conducted very well the organisation of public presentations, but some feel hurt, given that the public hearing took place mostly during the summer months when some have not had the opportunity to comment. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u287	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u288	Thank you very much. At the conclusion of this law, honourable Member, we have also found, together with NGOs that are extremely familiar with this area, that only with this system of regulations will we be able, when we systematically monitor how many individuals and individuals in the various areas of social life today act as volunteers and volunteers, to find out after a few years, because we do not have this data at all, and this law is the basis for collecting this data, how much GDP in our country is generated by people with their non-profit work, with their unselfish assistance in various areas. This is the contribution that we know today that it's huge. We know that solidarity among people in these direct relationships, even in accidents, is exceptional. But we don't have this regulation, so it's only right to get it on the road as soon as possible, it's not optimal, it doesn't solve all the questions, but it's a necessary start, so that when we get these organisations to sign up, when we see how many people are involved in this organization, when we can count them, when we can turn those hours into added value to the social work in this part, we can actually figure out how much of this work is. Because today we can find that we don't have this data, unfortunately, because it wasn't systematically monitored. We would like to be and, as a country with such solidarity as we see among our people today, we should also be able to commend ourselves with this. This law is an extension for first monitoring. It will certainly need to be complemented, at the same time responds, approaching the work of volunteer organisations in what those necessary costs are, how to protect the people who work here. That's what we answered. It is also true that we have many specific rules that define and regulate more precisely today because of the particular social importance of volunteering, protection and resolution. And that's not what we're dealing with. With this law, we want to gather all those who do not actually see each other anywhere today. I propose that we also examine and study it carefully in the framework of the National Assembly, because with the passport and the plus given by NGOs, I think that the matter has matured to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u289	Mr Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Economy of the Magi a question. Darji Radic and Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u290	Respected and respected! Madam Minister, I expect you to answer that part of the question that can be answered in the absence of the Ministry of Finance. It has been about two years since the start of the economic and financial crisis in Slovenia. I am convinced that our government has taken a number of measures at this time aimed at improving the situation in the economy, exceeding the credit crunch. However, today, two years after the start of the crisis, we seem to be facing a new wave that is specific to the financial and economic sector. The Maribor economy has so far relatively successfully managed this crisis period. However, there is a critical point where, in fact, it no longer has sufficient assets to carry out the contracts already accepted. This economy has orders, but the crisis has changed the dynamics of orders so that virtually everywhere today the goods and services required advance payments are needed and these companies cannot therefore end already ordered products. This is a number of industrial entities that expect effective assistance from the State in this regard. It is not about companies that are extremely successful, but it is about companies that have maintained their competitiveness at that time and have tried to follow trends in the global market by investing in development. As a rule, however, they have low ratings and, of course, banks are not very good at monitoring their business situation. That is why we are now at a critical point where these companies need to be adequately supported, in particular by accessing those companies to the operating resources they need to execute accepted contracts, as well as to compete successfully for new transactions. If that is not the case, we may be witnessing the worsening of the economic situation and the deterioration of the already bad social picture in Maribor. In fact, they play an indirect role here, and we do not want to see each other again, as in the 1990s, so that banks can once again become the graver of the Maribor economy. That is why I ask you, Madam Minister, above all: With what new measures will the Slovenian Government provide better access to finance for the industry's turnover? And: How will you, together with the Minister of Finance, achieve increased bank activity in the financing of operating assets, given that some banks are already in line to absorb the assets of these companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u291	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u292	Thank you so much for asking. Well, I must say that the Ministry of the Economy was already aware in 2009 of the fact that the liquidity situation in companies – especially in small and medium-sized enterprises and those, as you said, with lower ratings – will be the ones that are already more difficult to obtain. To this end, we have already developed a new instrument in 2009 under the so-called financial engineering, namely a guarantee of interest rate subsidy for small and medium-sized enterprises, allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain a guarantee for leased bank loans, together with a interest rate subsidy of up to 1.5 million for development projects. However, since we knew that everyone would not invest in development projects and that they would also need so-called liquidity funds to ensure a day-to-day operation, we also envisaged in this instrument the possibility of obtaining a guarantee for so-called liquidity loans, including interest rate subsidies of up to €200,000. I must say that we started implementing this instrument in 2009 and was also recognised among entrepreneurs as the most effective instrument. It is carried out by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which is located in Maribor. And it is precisely because of this success or the effectiveness of the small and medium-sized enterprise segment instrument that we have decided to continue with it in 2010. That is why we have further strengthened the funds and this year, for example, 350 companies have already received guarantees, interest rate subsidies. Their projects are worth more than 150 million euros. We also have a guarantee potential of almost €35 million by the end of the year. With this, we plan to be able to support projects for an additional €70 million by the end of the year. So far, we estimate that at least for a segment of small and medium-sized enterprises this instrument is satisfactory, but of course the instrument runs through business banks. Here you are right, the entrepreneur must first contact the business bank, make a deal with it, and only then comes to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund for a guarantee. But I must say that most Slovenian, not only Slovenian, business banks operating in the territory of Slovenia, have adopted this instrument. As far as I am aware as I have been informed by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, there are no major problems in this regard. Of course, we will try and actually do so if we see that we have any euro left anywhere, on other items, and we know that we will not have to spend it for various reasons, we immediately place it in the so-called holding fund, with which we increase the guarantee fund to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. This seems to me to be a good instrument, which we will also keep going. I hope that not so much for liquidity loans, but more and more for the implementation of development projects. However, as far as larger companies are concerned, of course this instrument will fail in this case. For large companies or for larger projects, we will say that for larger sums there was a guarantee scheme implemented through the SID of the bank. As you know, there have also been a number of companies receiving aid through this instrument, including as liquidity assets. However, I agree with you, but in fact, the Minister of Finance would be better able to answer this question at this point. However, in order to predict this, the loss of a credit portfolio in banks is absolutely unacceptable to me as well as to the Ministry of Economy. This lack of banking activity, the bolder approach of banks to finance the economy, is, in my opinion, an important obstacle at the moment to a faster start to the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u293	Would you like an additional answer? No, no, no. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. He will ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, and Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, since it's late, I'll be brief. Last week there were riots at Serbia : Italy. The game was canceled. Not Serbia: Italy, but Italy: Serbia in Genoa. Serbian hooligans prevented and also caused riots and were equipped with illicit devices. According to some Italian media, the Schengen border was hidden at the Slovenian-Croatian border. Because the rioters came to Genoa with buses. I'm asking you: How was this review conducted so that the rioters could carry with them all the props that would then cause these outrageous riots, violence and all that? For apparently they were examined as though they were destined for fashion boutiques in Milan. However, it is important to be aware that these, according to some sources – and that our police had to know one day earlier or two days earlier – destroyed Belgrade at a parade of pride and that these are elements of criminal associations that our border authorities have obviously not detected and have not stopped. The Minister in absentia, Mr. Žbogar, I ask: How will this bewildered reputation, or fact, as this Schengen border does not seem to have worked? What will result from this lack of protection and control of the Schengen border? In doing so, how will Slovenia, which has so far declared itself a credible country, which professionally exercises Schengen control at its eastern border? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u295	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Dear Member, your concern is entirely in place and I absolutely share it with you. Such conduct as we have been given in these incidents is due to the sharpest condemnation, and I am joining in. It's not, and it can't be, a part of sports enthusiasm. As we, at the interstate level and at the national level at the Ministry of the Interior, advocate that sports cheering be appropriate and that it would allow all possible people to come to the game, we have also started with very concrete legislative changes, which I have already talked about here today. Well, surely one of the measures that can prevent such behaviour is good, consistent border control, where it can be prevented to some extent. Slovenian police received quite a few good experiences during the European football championship in Austria and Switzerland in 2008. At that time, she gained valuable experience on how to carry out border controls and what to do with fans. So today he knows how to do these things. It also pays particular attention to groups of fans coming from countries in the Western Balkans region because they can be classified as high-risk fans; this is taken into account in specific controls. People are being examined, they are being deprived of illicit aids, and owners can also be sanctioned in accordance with legislation. However, it is also possible for persons to be banned from entering the country. As regards the specific travel of Serbian fans to Italy, Slovenian police at border crossings did not record any speciality, only a small number of fans with personal vehicles crossed the Schengen border at the Slovenian external border. Most of the fans, those who went by bus, entered the Schengen area at Hungarian border crossings. In addition, it should be noted that fans can buy such pyrotechnics and other objects in the country in which they came to cheer, and this has obviously happened in this case. Well, let me recap. These fans did not cross the Slovenian Schengen border, but across Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u297	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u298	Thank you very much again. Madam Minister, I am now in the dilemma of whether we should believe you or have something exactly Italian media saying that these fans went through Slovenia, because for long it was the most logical way to Milan and Genovo through Slovenia and it is also the shortest. It is not very logical that Slovenia, as an unwanted country, should avoid Serbia – or Serbian fans. That's how your statement should be taken conditionally. Maybe you don't have the right data, maybe someone's interested in operating on the wrong data. I am asking for this; we have rightly protested when Italy introduced additional checks and border controls at the borders at the time of the European Championship. However, if it turns out that our control has been weak - I wish that this would not be proven, but you will have to check this further - and then, of course, retrograde these findings and measures against Slovenia will be verified as appropriate and in such a case, Slovenia will have long-term consequences as a securely insecure country. So once again, I have a feeling that you haven't been over-checking this data, that you've had the excuse to go around Slovenia, and it's not really logical for this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u299	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Dear Member! We're sitting in the National Assembly, and I'm answering you as Minister of the Interior. We're not in a coffee shop. I gave you the right information, which is true, because I obtained it on the basis of a request from the police. I am very sorry, however, that you trust the media Italian publications more than the official data of the Slovenian police.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u301	Mr Miro Petek will address the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Mag. Mr Dejan Židan and the Minister for Environment and Space Dr. Rok Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Environment has addressed enough today so that only the Minister of Agriculture can answer this question. Dear Minister, in your presentation material for the Minister, you have dedicated all three sentences to forestry. Take three. I am sure that in these months, you have also learned well about forestry, the importance of forests for Slovenia, that you have read the Resolution on the National Forest Programme and that you have besieged competent people in your ministry about forestry. The fact is, even in the area of forestry, there are individuals who want to gain influence, not to say property, over today's state forests. For you, Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you about the protection forests. In recent times, there have been more and more cases where some individuals, companies have placed their eyes on the so-called protection forests, where they want to amend the forest and forest regulations in various ways with special importance and delete this status in order to enforce narrow private interests. Such an example was given to your Ministry on 1 July this year, in the Mežiška Valley, in Žerjavo, where the Maribor Road Company, their construction materials, gave an initiative to amend the forest protection regulation for several parcels for the expansion of the sandstone. The country spends €1 million per year on the rehabilitation of Mezica and Montenegro and Žerjeva, while there is a high probability that it will give its consent to this sandstone in Žerjav, which would further pollute this valley. The former Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Karl Erjavec, said in one reply to my question about the further production of the sandstone in Žerjavo that this quarry should be closed immediately. At the same time, he served with some information about why. Of course, it is a known problem of heavy metal content in this sand. The forestry profession, the Institute for Forests in Slovenj Gradec, has been opposed to amending the regulation and deleting this status from these parcels. However, interests and the Ministry of the Environment and Space have emerged and there has been some kind of cross-cutting coordination, where in mid-August this year they have proposed that these parcels should be thrown out of this Regulation and thus given a green light to spread this quarry, although in addition to the profession, the mayors of Montenegro and Mežica have protested in writing and at the addresses of both ministers to whom I am asking the question. Will both ministers prevent this shameful trade in the conservation forest in the ecologically degraded Meziska Valley? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u303	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u304	Mr Member, thank you for asking. This is, of course, a simple answer, how we will prevent acts that are not in accordance with the legal order, the profession, as well as the interests of the State of Slovenia. This is in such a way that initiatives that can be different, both from the Institute of Forests, the interest communities, the municipalities, and probably a lot more – in fact, initiatives are legitimate, but only those that will have the written consent of professional institutions will be taken into account, this is the Institute for Forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u305	Mr. Friday, you want a follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Minister, you've been very brief, we're going to continue with a little bit of this, if you need any material on this, and I'm really ready to give it up for you. In this case, in the event of the expansion of the sandstone in Žerjav, there was obviously a pretty corruption story in the game. Because of the lack of time, I'd like to put all this into a few short sentences. Immediately after the role of the Maribor Road Company to change these plots, where the forest is declared a protection forest, the Regional Unit of the Slovenian Forest Institute gave a negative opinion. However, a week after this negative opinion, something unusual happens. Mr Regonja and Mrs Joštova from the agricultural ministry and Mr Robek, representative of the Slovenian Forestry Institute, take a look at these plots on the ground. In the middle of August, that is to say, in the middle of the holiday, there is some kind of cross-cutting coordination, where, at the initiative of Mr Mladen Berginc of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the decision is taken to exclude these parcels from the regulation, so that the expert opinion of the foresters is overrun, and a green light is given to delete the protection forests from these plots, where they would like to bathe or spread this sandbox. On 2 September, the Council of the Regional Unit of the Institute for Forests, Slovenj Gradec, also adopted the conclusion that the area of the protection forests must remain as defined in the forestry plans. I mean, Minister, we're going to have to review all this procedure: Why did this even happen? Why is there this decision that would mean a slap to this environment? What were the interests here in the background? Was it possible that someone had a promised reward? If this documentation is hidden from you, all this correspondence, it's available here, I'd be happy to give it up for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u307	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u308	Mr Member, once again, I would like to point out that, as far as I know, the regulation has not yet been adopted because I have not signed it. A regulation may be amended if only those with professional foundations will be. We need to be aware that at this point in Slovenia we have some more than 100,000 hectares of protected forests, about forests I know a little more than a few months ago when I became Minister. And I thank you for reminding me of a particular matter that I have not known until today. We will absolutely look at what this is about, but you definitely have my commitment to decide the regulation only on the basis of the professional criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u309	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology will be posed by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u310	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleague, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister and respected Minister Golobic! According to some recently published assumptions, more than one third of students are enrolled in study programmes and self-education, and even more than 50% of students are enrolled in some study programmes. Under the terms of fictitious entry in this case, we mean admission to a study or secondary school programme in order to exercise the rights of student or student status, mainly for the purpose of avoiding payment of health and other contributions, the exercise of student nutrition and home rights, the possibility of working through student services, the application of subsidies for transport services, child allowances and so on. If we look through practice, there is currently almost no control in this area. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Department of Health Insurance, Universities, Colleges, Student Services and so on act completely uncoordinated, which has been proven in practice several times. We are surprised that it is difficult for all technology to establish a single control system for an individual and his study activities. However, it seems most absurd to include students who have lost their status as part of their studies in high school programs, which even gladly tolerate it. Some colleges, on the other hand, have serious problems with the organization of lectures and the like. In normal higher education, the student should study and only look for extension of this status in the same university when seeking employment under special conditions. However, there is nothing we can do to justify copying from one college to another or even entering secondary school programmes for purely beneficial reasons; of course, in this case we can also talk for reasons of social status. My question would be: How can an adult who usually has a high school graduation enter the developed school system, not even an hour of school, but has the same rights and benefits as other high school students throughout the year? What concrete measures do you plan to take in the area of eliminating the irregularities described, ensuring equal opportunities for all students, promoting the completion of studies, establishing a single register for all connected institutions and promoting faster employment of young educated people?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u311	Thank you. Please, Minister Gregor Golobič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Thank you for that question. Starts a relevant topic. The question of how this is possible is in place. After taking care of this area, I was also surprised by the fact that such central records were not available in the past. Such records have not been established in the past. We have therefore already taken action at the Government in May 2009 within the framework of the programme to remove administrative barriers, which is called the establishment of a central register of participants in education, for which both the Ministry of Higher Education and the Ministry of Education and Sport are responsible. We continued our activities on our segment. So we have set up an e-high education project to cover the need to establish such a record for the entire tertiary education, i.e. higher, higher, university. This project began in October 2009. During the first half of the year, a full dossier was drawn up and a public invitation to tender was made, and this is also my opinion, partly because of the interests related to the maintenance of this opaque state, the documentation was cancelled on the State Audit Commission in the autumn of one part. This week, however, we will repeat the invitation to tender, corrected, corrected, at this point. We plan that, following the successful implementation of this call, this single record system, which will become an important database of both student status, which is important in terms of identifying rights from the country of the funded higher education study, the social transfers you are mentioning – will therefore be linked to the e-social database project set up by the Ministry of Labour, as well as to health insurance and other institutions which will have the appropriate legal basis. In short, this system is expected to become fully operational in September 2011. However, data will be entered, so the test data will be entered for the first time for the current 2011/2012 study year, i.e. for the future. Back data will also be entered for 10 years. This will allow us to set out certain measures that we are planning within this moment of key document, which is now at large public hearing, but also, I expect, at the beginning of next year in the National Assembly, this is the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education for 2011-2020. There we anticipate specific corrections or incentives to increase the efficiency of higher education, to reduce the abuses you are talking about, which are partly related to the absence of such records. The anomalies, as you mentioned, are very severe. With regard to this admission to secondary education, I also took note of your question to the competent Minister Luksic, because it belongs to this record in his field; in fact, as far as tertiary education is concerned, it is true that individuals of six, seven or even more years can use the status of students by replacing programmes and institutions, completely without supervision and without the possibility of action. We are planning important changes in this new national programme. Every citizen, regardless of age, will be allowed to maintain access to this education free of charge, this is a non-school involvement in obtaining education at the first Bologna level for 3 + 1 year. This can be used by every citizen at any age once in his life if he has not done so, if he does not yet have this education, and only for one study course. We also want to keep the second rate open, but, according to the proposal of the national programme, everyone who enters this education will accept the obligation that, in the event of a failed study, within a reasonable period of time, he will be committed to reimbursement of tuition costs, later in life, when and if he has adequate income. Thus, there are a number of measures, these concrete, at the point of the single base and others, systemically, at the point of ensuring accessibility and increasing accountability to those involved in this system. These measures are set up and in some comprehensive way could start to round this area in the coming year, which is, in fact, as you pointed out with this issue, very messy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Kres' answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u314	It's not an answer. It's a small comment. I must say, I am very pleased with your answer. On the supplementary issue, I am ready for all that, because I did not expect to get, but I did get, and I must say that I also very much welcome this intention to allow free study in the framework that you have said, as you have informed us. It is true, however, that there is much to be done in our country on flexible labour legislation and that such exploitation will not take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u315	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, will be raised by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u316	Nice greetings to all who are still in the hall! Look, Minister Ivan Svetlik told me he won't be able to be until the end of our session. My question concerns him, so I will ask for a written answer. The question relates to the fate of Vegrad workers who are currently staying in the single homes of Vegrada d.o.o. in bankruptcy or other tenants or owners of single homes. Mr Svetlik has already made me partly aware and explained what the Ministry has done in this matter, but I cannot take this as an answer because it does not specifically address the issues I have raised. The Ministry notes that it cannot interfere with contracts concluded between workers and single homes that it does not have this interference, which is understandable. It also states that, already in December 2008, it called on the inspection board to examine the situation and status of these workers. It has been found that many do not live in an appropriate situation, that the contracts are also inadequate, but that there was no interference at the time to interfere. The Interdepartmental Working Group was therefore established in February 2009, which concluded that a sub-legislative act should be drawn up. Regrettably, the legislative services have found that there is no legal basis in the Employment and Work Act for issuing such a sub-law. So all these problems will be solved in the context of the new law on foreigners. In my question, I drew attention to a particular problem that may no longer be up to date in a month when these workers are working, we do not know where. They are in the single home of Vegrad, there are several more than 10 and some more than 100 workers are currently staying in other single homes. In particular, I wanted to refer here to the Ministry of Social Affairs, which should address this issue with some intervention measures. Waiting for the new law will delay the matter indefinitely, and I fear that these workers will not receive any wages or resources to return home and that the current problem of these people who are here and do not know whether they will still be able to live for the next week. So I expect an answer at the next meeting and, if possible, measures before that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u317	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, you want him to answer you at the next session, not in writing? So the Member wants the Minister's reply at the next meeting, so he finally said and confirmed it. Answer at the next sitting, oral response?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u318	He can get up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u319	Do you want to write like you said?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u320	Good. Look, if I have to make a decision, I propose a written answer, because he has a greater commitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-18-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u321	Okay, the written answer is, not the oral one, at the next session. You'll get a written answer, we'll let you know, the minister is, as you've noticed, absent. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 19 October 2010, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. At 9 p.m. Knowledge is a harvest on the subject of Slovenian exploration in space technologies. I'll warn you so much more. Thank you.
