ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Roberto Battelli, Miran Jerič and Anton Urh. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - this is a second defensively proposed bill on school meals within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The law on the subsidisation of the student diet went well through the previous stages. Here I would like to say that the evaluation of the effects after the first year of implementation of this law, which entered into force in the 2008/2009 school year, showed that the students had gladly accepted the opportunity offered. At the same time, it was pointed out that the situation in school environments, the eating habits of secondary schools, the material, spatial and human resources capacities of secondary schools and the values of society, as shown by inadequate treatment of free meals, were under-appreciated. In addition to the shortcomings in the complete subsidisation system of the student diet, it is obvious that there is also a discrepancy with the system of subsidisation of meals in primary schools. The provision of comparablely regulated vertical subsidisation is an additional key objective of the new bill. I would also like to say that, in preparing the law, we followed the criterion of fairness, i.e. that they receive food subsidised both by children in primary schools and in secondary schools. The Ministry of Education and Sport, in policy-making, also with the proposal for a new School Diet Act, did not want to interfere with partial solutions on individual segments of the education system in order to keep the matter in force only for students, but we did find solutions concerning the whole vertical. This is from the entrance of children to primary school, to the completion of secondary education. In doing so, the Ministry sought to regulate school nutrition as fairly as possible within the financial possibilities and to combine it in full vertical terms with universal social rights and subsidies. This means that our ministry in this proposal places school nutrition in school policy, not in social policy, and follows the objectives of healthy nutrition and educational activities in schools. When amending the law, it is felt in the public that the rights of students are being reduced, but it is important to stress that in the future every future student will also be paid for part of the school diet in primary school. We feel that we are directing or committing ourselves to responsible conduct regarding the benefits involved. With the new law, we want to oblige them to respect school registration rules regarding the use of a daily meal or to sanction non-compliance with these rules in terms of the return of the entire value of the meal. If the lunch were entirely subsidised to all pupils and pupils in primary schools, we would need an additional EUR 20 million per year at the same starting points, which is, of course, inappropriate in these circumstances. As you know, the government is preparing a rebalancing that will reconcile the deficit in revenue with expenditure. The estimated amount through the modernisation of the procurement system or the establishment of records cannot be saved, but it is not insignificant that this requirement is assuredly satisfied with the new law and will be even more realized by the actual establishment of an information system for school nutrition, which will make it easier for schools to find procedures, record keeping and accounting systems in many ways. On the basis of the amendment of the coalition, the school is given the opportunity to grant an additional subsidy of 1/3 of the meal price, in addition to granting subsidies on the basis of the income of the student or student, also due to the specific circumstances in which the student or student lives, which means in cases of long-term illness, death in the family or natural disasters. Dear Members! Please support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth is held at its 17th session. 4. examined the Proposal for a School Diet Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. A general discussion was held on the draft law at its 15th regular meeting on 26 March 2010, and it was then concluded that the proposal for a school diet law was suitable for further consideration. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and, from a legislative and technical point of view, made comments to the first five articles on Articles 8, 15, 21, 23 and 33. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. She felt that the proposed law had taken into account social corrections for both pupils and students, although there were still significant differences within individual groups. However, the members of the Commission had doubts as to why the funds for such a socialised proposal for a law were drawn from school funds and not from resources intended for social transfers. The opinion was presented orally at the Committee by Drago Jura. The Committee was also provided with the following materials: amendments to the student organisation and opinions of the Municipality of Domžale and the Municipality of Maribor. The amendments have been tabled by the four coalition groups on Articles 4, 8, 15, 21, 23, 33, 37 and 38, SDS Group on Articles 3, 7, 9, 12, 13, 15, 16, 19, 21, 22, 24, 25, 31, 33 and 36. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. Dr Igor Lukšič, as a representative of the proposers, provided an additional explanation for the proposal. He said that the bill extended the subsidy from high school to primary school. The problem of nutrition is also solved in primary school. Food becomes part of the educational process and does not have only social status. Socially endangered, about 35 to 40%, will still have a free meal in both primary and secondary schools. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that most of the comments made had been taken into account in the amendments to the coalition, with the exception of the comments to Articles 2, 3 and 5, which had been clarified by the applicants. In the light of the comment to Article 1 and the reasons given, the comment will be taken into account as editorial when published in the Official Journal. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to the provisions of Article 3 of the draft law and to the amendments tabled thereto and to all other related amendments tabled by the SDS Group. The debate focused on the issue of the objectives of the law. Some members and members of the Committee considered that the existing regime was appropriate. They also support subsidies in primary schools, but not by abolishing a 100 % subsidy in secondary schools. It was said that a 100 % subsidy should apply to secondary and primary schools. However, for those with health problems, a tailored meal should be provided. The president of the student organisation said that the proposed law was basically good, as the ministry took several comments into account. He explained that the students support the introduction of an internal commission, a prior application and better registration, but do not support the abolition of a free meal, as this is a violation of their rights. He also felt that the law did not regulate specific diets for those with health problems. He was also interested in what criteria and under which scales the subsidisation or additional subsidy would be granted to pupils coming from other countries. In the following written report, you can also look at the arguments of those who had different views on the Committee. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted eight amendments to the four coalition groups, not adopted [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The SDS MPs, the nine amendments in question, were adopted by both amendments to the Committee. [[...]] In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for a law incorporating the amendments is prepared on the basis of Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of the report and we propose that you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 15th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2010 We're moving on to Article 15. Where the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15(1) is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 21 and 33, we will also discuss these articles and the amendments tabled together, it is said that we are discussing the two amendments to Article 15 and we are also discussing the amendments to Articles 21 and 33. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the following substantively related articles and amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. I'm asking for a debate. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! This is the most important article or amendment in this consideration of the School Food Act. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party completely changes the design of the law and requires 100% school meals in both primary and secondary schools. However, we have heard this today from the proposaler, Dr Igor Luksic, that in this financial situation this is not even possible in the light of the preparation of the 2010 state budget rebalancing. In order to implement this amendment, the Slovenian Democratic Party would need an additional EUR 20 million. Although, on the other hand, it is necessary to say so, and the Minister has also said several times in these months that the Ministry is working to ensure that all students and all students actually have free school meals during a longer period of time. Therefore, at this point, we cannot, of course, support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, although two years ago virtually everyone in the National Assembly confirmed the Law on Diagnostic Nutrition. In our view, this proposed draft law is more comprehensive and socially fair in the areas of school nutrition in secondary schools. Of course, the right to a subsidised diet extends to primary school students. The proposal is without prejudice to the level of resources set out in the State budget and introduces a solidarity component while strengthening the responsibility of food management. It should also be pointed out that the current subsidisation of primary school nutrition, which, by the way, involves a low proportion of students from socially disadvantaged families, additional administrative burdens on school workers. They shall be composed of committees which shall then conduct a procedure concerning the allocation of rights. The Ministry of Education and Sport envisages a more discreet examination of the application and simplification of the procedure. The relevant data should be provided by parents or social work centres. Instead of a warm meal, a healthy meal is now used. The technical guidelines and guidance on how to prepare, service and quantitative standards will be prepared by a public health institution authorised by the Minister of Health. The meals shall be organised by a school or other educational institution, exceptionally with the consent of the founder, and the school may transfer the activity to the external operator. The amount of the meal should be new, consisting of a general subsidy of two-thirds of the price and the remaining additional subsidies, the amount of which depends on the average income per family member. The price of the subsidised lunch should be determined by decision of the Minister for Education each year before the start of the school year. Since the entry into force of this law, it is expected to amount to 0.8 euros in primary and 2.42 euros in secondary school. Now let's see what the statistics are, what are the numbers? This is very important in defending this law. Today there are 284,000 students and students in Slovenia. In primary schools there are 165 thousand students and at the moment there are 165 thousand students and students who receive a free school meal or lunch for 19,000 students and students. 23,000 students and students receive a certain subsidy. It is said that 122 000 pupils and pupils in primary schools today receive nothing. Under the new law, they will also be entitled to a certain part of the subsidy or to a free meal. This is an essential information and I think that this is a more just and socially oriented solution than the previous one. According to the news, I'm talking about primary school, there's going to be 60,000 students and students having free lunch. 104,000 students and students have a subsidized lunch. This I think is a major step forward in the socially acute situation in this economic crisis. Of course, the students will be a little bit worse, but I think this will be more fairly settled than it has been so far, because so far everyone has been given a free lunch, no matter what their social status was, either from wealthy families or from more socially disadvantaged environments. Today all students get free lunch, that's 84,500 students. After the new, 30,000 students and students will still receive a free meal, which amounts to 34.6%. 21,000 students, according to 25% of the students and students, will receive an additional subsidy, not just two thirds, as will an additional 34,272 students and students, which is another 40%. It is clear from these figures that 122,000 pupils and pupils will receive either free lunch or subsidised under this new law. While lunches in high schools on costs will be more equitablely distributed according to the social status of pupils and students. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this law must be supported and we will vote against the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! I myself will support the law, as proposed and prepared by the Ministry, which eliminates the decisions of the law that has been adopted, let us say honestly, socially in the National Assembly, but in special time. The solutions were special at the time, too. And at the time of the warnings that this would not be able to maintain very long, there were very few answers. Today it appears that we are not able to do what the amendment proposes in these times. And when it is not possible to provide 100% of the subsidy for all, then it is only right that at least for those who receive it be arranged in a comparable, fair way, with a different distribution of funds than the old legislation knows. If I support the bill, it is clear that my support for the amendment that changes the essence of this law is lacking. And I think that's the power to rationalize. Firstly, the proposer proposes and emphasises that the change is designed to make things fairer. In order for all to receive what is the basis of this law, that is, a different diet. Ii will be more focused on the healthy structure of this diet, and secondly, to enable those who cannot pay for it to access this healthy diet by means of social adjustments or by additional relief. So with the general relief, which is a direct compliment to this medical motive, we have an additional relief that allows those who otherwise could not have the same access as everyone else, this access. What is perhaps a little less well thought out, and we haven't talked about it at all, but to me a few questions are being asked, is whether it is even possible to distribute fairly if we have the same relief from the 1st to the 9th grade, when we know that students and students are essential in different ages, with substantially different needs, but have the same offer at the same price. The second question that I am asked in this regard is that a child who is a student in the ninth grade of primary school and who moves into the 1st year of secondary school in two months probably does not change his needs as much as the subsidies change from 0.8 to 2.42 euros. These are probably questions that will still need to be considered in the future when a better time is possible for the subsidy to be equal to all and 100% of all. Since we cannot afford this option now, I think it is right that the funds raised and the comparison shows that, in the previous school year, there were 5 times fewer allocations than for secondary schools, although there were a significant number of children in primary schools, so I think that these funds should really be redistributed and this subsidy system should be made more equitable.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Your Clavor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members! In our proposed amendment group to the 15th Article of the SDS Group, we cannot support it. Of course, we would also like to ensure 100% financing of food or snacks for both groups of schooling children and adolescents, but only if we are reasonable, given the financial consequences that would affect the budget or public finances at this time when we are dealing with other financial problems, unfortunately not yet possible. As has been said on our part, in our Group, we welcome this proposal of the law, as it provides equal opportunities for both parents of pupils and primary schoolchildren, discrimination between students and students in this way regarding the payment of a meal, the proposed regime will no longer follow the principles of fairness, equality and a more equitable distribution of the financial burdens for parents whose children are included in different levels of education. The envisaged methods of participation and subsidisation shall be adequately established and financially sustainable both for parents and for the country. However, the possibility of additional subsidies to those families who are socially at risk is an additional appropriate correction which, according to our assessment, will provide even a free meal to this group. However, I would like to stop at Amendment 15, which says that all students or students in Article 13 of this Law who have fallen sick of celliac disease are entitled to a 100% refund. I'd say the following. Article 23 of the Health Insurance Act already states that children with metabolic diseases, including celiac disease, receive 100% of the payment of nutrients. This is said to be the case, but only on the basis of a certificate issued by the competent College of the Paediatric Clinic. That's supposed to exist. When I spoke to and asked a pediatrician in the Goriški area who cared for the children; he asked me to confirm it, but he also confirmed that it was arranged for me in schools. Or if we take the case of celliacs, there aren't many children here, maybe there's one, two, or none at school. It also depends on the school itself whether it can handle it, although it has 100% covered costs for these nutrients. That is why I do not think that this is something that needs to be said here specifically about celliacs, because this is already regulated by an appropriate law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Alexander Zorn has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Of course, I support our amendment, and I will just justify it as I will. Dear Minister, you said that the School Diet Act, with all its consequences, is part of school policy and not in social policy. I think you're making a big mistake. This is part of social policy. And if that were the case, we could get money from social transfers. And that makes it harder to get it. And the essence of all the law, which is in fact not entirely bad and brings a lot of very good news that we could support, also brings a huge flaw. And in these days, it's so much bigger. And this social reform of the school diet of your Social Democratic Party, a respected minister, is directed against young people and schoolchildren. As a result, of course, against the students who will happen on the street in the morning, we have rushed today to adopt this law so as not to face a large crowd. That seems pointless and cowardly to me. And, Mr Minister, this social-democratic government will be remembered by the fact that it has begun to charge lunch for its children. Okay. And on behalf of social justice. What social justice? During the crisis and the decline of birthrates, of course we will charge children part of lunch. And this is social segregation, not social justice, because children are now divided into those who, of course, can pay for lunch, and those who will have to admit that they cannot and will recognize poverty. I don't think that's exactly social justice. They will be entrusted with some sort of commission that will check their parents' incomes and be disgraced at school. If this seems to you like your party's social democratic policy and social justice, then I don't know what social justice is anymore. There's something else you should say. Instead of encouraging with small loans the crisis of this company. For example, recently he received a Nobel Prize from an Indian banker who borrowed small loans. Instead of allowing loans to small businesses for transitional problems, you draw money from your citizens. And now you've got kids. Through my parents, of course. Because it's the kids who will say at school, "I can't have a free lunch and I'd have a free lunch." How are they gonna do that? I think this law is such that we must reject it at this point. Consider how we could draw money from elsewhere and guarantee in schools the unity that we have always wanted, and sometimes we will never have it again. And while we're at it, maybe this is even less important than the left social policy you're pursuing a social policy that's far from right-wing. Let this remain in your memory when we adopt this law forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I have some problems with this law myself. The feeling that I can't get rid of in any way is that it needs to be changed, or arranged, because it was adopted by another government, despite the fact that all Members voted in favour of this law at the time. And to talk about justice and so on, while the Ministry of Labour has warned that the system will not be fair, because the records are not regulated and it would be reasonable to wait until the new social legislation is adopted, it is probably a problem that we should discuss in this regard. I asked the Minister a question about using how the diaphragm is going on, what is going on. Most schools say the interest is great that things are being carried out. Schools have adapted very quickly and have arranged all the things that the law has prescribed for them, which I think is right. Because they had the opportunity to manage their diet before, but they didn't. As long as there's a chance in the marriage that something can be fixed, but it doesn't have to, of course, it doesn't usually work out. It was therefore right for us to adopt this law. We received it in 2008. In the school year 2008-2009 it was first introduced, so for the first time all students had a 100 % subsidised hot meal. And we think that's right. And to say that you are now exercising some social justice, that it will be fairer, then introduce it as a student. Why don't we separate students according to their social status? But you have decided that in high school we will point to those who cannot pay for student meals or those who are socially threatened and will still be covered by the state. You're introducing a whole bunch of red tape, a whole bunch of new records, a bunch of some administrative procedures that someone's going to have to take care of, someone's going to be employed and paid for. We wanted to know in the process of addressing this law and these changes what these costs are, what you're assessing these costs, and we didn't get these answers. We wonder why it's necessary to save money in students. If this country has no problem paying its friends enormous rent to pay only EUR 500 million this year for the interest on the loans we have rented, probably 6 million for the student and school meals should not be a serious problem. You have increased the funds for material costs, for the purchase of computers, cars for 50 million, that's a lot of money, if we know that the whole student diet last year cost 30 million. I don't understand how you have to come up with such a proposal and talk about social justice when, in fact, in high schools, you enforce poor, less poor, rich people who can pay for themselves. You're bringing in the law, subsidies from public funds, I can't say exactly, in short, you're bringing in a law that will abolish scholarships for underage students. Students under the age of 18 will no longer be eligible for scholarships. And it's not true what my colleague said that they don't have anything in primary school. They have a lot in elementary school. The municipalities pay for transportation, it is a school fund, so the pupils in primary schools have free textbooks, they have to buy work volumes and notebooks. We could reduce that, too. While students have to pay for everything: pay for textbooks, pay for work volumes, pay for notebooks, pay for transportation every day to come to high school. And it's not true that they have nothing in primary schools, but students have, I don't know, what. At least we finally got this sorted out. And if it were our government today, we would certainly have introduced free food, at least at primary school. What you're doing is a step back. And to say that once in the near future food will be free for students and for students in primary schools, see, this can only be believed by naive people. If you are saying at this point that 6, 10 million cannot be guaranteed to maintain a 100% subsidised student diet and introduce a supplement or subsidy into primary schools as well. But before that, I've told you where we can spend a lot of money and there's no problem giving 500 million for anything. Preparations for amending the law also stated that 20% of the food is being thrown away. The answer the minister sent me shows that about 7% of the meal is surplus. Schools do this in a different way. We are also in favour of proposing, as is the law, that it is possible to give humanitarian organisations or those who are socially at risk, and these meals will not go away. And they don't go anywhere because they've established that what's left gets students, if they want, those who need it. I suggest you reconsider. The Minister has worked very hard to change the Education and Education Financing Act by reinstating the students in the councils of the institutions. I think that's the right thing to do, in order to have more words, to be able to make decisions. In this law, 22,000 students signed a proposal to keep their diet 100% subsidised by the state. That's a third of the students. But we can't hear them here, we don't care what they think, not the student organization, not the students. Saying that they will have more words, that they will be able to decide and ignore it, and I find it very underestimating. To respect them when they "feed" us, when they don't "feed" us, but we won't listen to them. In response to the minister, there was also a great interest in a warm meal. I'd like to know what the data is from before, what happened before, what they ate, what they ate, or what they ate. We had information when we proposed a law in the previous term on many problems. The Institute for Health Protection also said a lot about how unhealthy our students are. And that's why the law was passed. We set ourselves a whole bunch of goals, we adopted a resolution on food policy, we wrote in there the wonders of what we are going to do, we have done nothing or very little. When we finally do something, it has to be broken down or scribbled into something that won't look anything like it, which will lead back to decomposition. As I said, with our finger we're going to point to those students who come from poor families, knowing that many of their parents have lost their jobs in these times and that this subsidy probably meant a lot to them. In addition, it is given directly and it is known why it can be done. We have baby supplements when you never know if the parents really used them for the baby. A lot of them don't either. But here we put the money directly for food, and it was true that the students knew that they were eating and that they had something to eat. We would expect not to be so stuck at a few million if we could give them 500, 300 for cars and computers, but rather give them for students, school meals and keep something we barely introduced, and give ourselves some time to look at and analyze the situation and see what happened and what didn't happen. Things got caught up, there's no telling that the principals are against the fact that the principals don't agree to have a problem with that. Most of the schools organized themselves and organized things as they needed to. But there's no problem if someone from the outside is coming, they've arranged the dining rooms. It's not a problem if they eat in classrooms. They also eat in elementary schools in classrooms, and nobody's worried about it. The purpose of the law adopted in 2008 was good and correct. If you are so socially just, then we expect a very quick change of the Student Food Subsidisation Act, and let us also separate those who are socially disadvantaged from those who can afford a little more expensive meals and pay for themselves. Thank you very much. I will support our amendment, not the amendment of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. He's got a word, mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I've healed everyone else before, so I won't say hello again. However, I would like to ask the candidates of the first amendment, this is the SDS Group, which is proposing an amendment to break the concept of the proposed school food law, so that some things may be remembered. In 2008, a law on student diet was passed and a law on primary school diet was proposed. And then those who now have such a vehement explanation of how some things need to be taken into account have rejected the proposed Basic Food Act, unfortunately even at a time when they thought we were in a golden age and that the financial means were sufficient. They argued that school nutrition in primary school was well-managed. Back then, opposition Members and Members of the opposition warned us that it is more important for us to have the right to have easy access to school meals for those who are in compulsory form of education. It should also be told those who say that school meals should be placed in the social field and not in school that Dr Milan Zver, the current Minister of Education, has placed food, a student diet in the school field. And now things are where they are. I support Minister Igor Luksic's position that school nutrition with its accompanying effects is part of the educational process, both to education for healthy nutrition and to raise what is essential to the Social Democrats, and this is solidarity, responsibility and justice. Solidarity for all those who can do more because their parents are in better-paid jobs, for those who cannot. The whole society and Slovenia are said to be a social state, based on the fact that those who come from socially less conducive environments, through social adjustments, are improving the situation that poverty thresholds are being breached or that the proportion of those who live below the poverty threshold is decreasing. This is why social transfers have to be said in the primary school in a discreet way, and that is why they have experience in primary school to be able to do so, because so far it is possible for those who come from socially less stimulating environments to introduce certain subsidies both at the level of state resources and of local communities. That is why I think that with appropriate approaches and sufficient subtle treatment this will be known by the school authorities, they will know the management of the school, but they will not know which students and students, who receives only the general subsidy, who may be the one who receives the full subsidy. Making sure that the meal itself becomes a subject of social distinction is, in my opinion, superfluous. As regards the social component in those children or in those pupils and learners with metabolic diseases. At the meeting of the committee, the representative of the Ministry of Education said that there was already an opportunity to take care of a student's meal with celiac disease, and such was in the previous school year, I think 560 out of 164.000, which is 0.3%. A slightly higher number, I think 650, pardon, 460 children with celliacs and a little over 560 of those with diabetes. For all of these there is a possibility of introducing a specific diet diet, as a proposal for a law with specific rules governing school diet, with a working group helping school management prepare and resolve school nutrition issues with a one-time survey per year, listening to the level of satisfaction with school meals and the inclusion of these issues in the work plan and thus the decision-making of the school council, is provided for both supervision and consent and attention to comments. But I think there's one more thing to say that he's already warned the Mags about. Clavora. Medical diagnosis is necessary to enable the beneficiary to receive a meal for celliacs or for diabetics or for any other purpose. And the issues related to this are broader and go beyond the question of school meals, so those who have such a child can exercise the right to social transfer through the social work centre, with the appropriate medical certificate. It is only in order to avoid duplication that this issue is resolved where it is resolved at the general level. Therefore, it was also agreed at the level of the Ministry of Education that students and students receive the same amount of subsidy as all others under these criteria as set out for all. However, those who, as I said earlier, exercise this diagnosis and the resulting entitlements do so. I think it is irresponsible to ignore that twice as many students and students are receiving from public funds to deal with school nutrition issues so far five times less money. This will improve somewhat with this law. The lower subsidy may also be due to the regulated financing of school meal preparers. We could discuss a lot of things, but let just one more thing that was mentioned and pointed to it with a finger in the debate. It was about rent. If we are already dealing with rents, then let's say that in February 2008 the Ministry of Education signed a contract for renting premises, in which the Ministry of Education, which is now a month, you will not believe, EUR 143,573, of which EUR 125,000, something like this, for rooms and for garages and parking spaces. You're not going to believe this building is also leased. But of course we're sensitive to some things, to others we're not. The square meter of rent is 13.46 euros. That's it. When we point out with our finger, let's point out everything everywhere, all the examples of non-economic leases. That there's another company [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u17	Please, peace in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u18	that there is another company, Mr Gorenak, who is the expert in renting premises, certainly knows, but this is by chance a company with which the Ministry of the Interior also entered into a contract under Minister Matei. [[...]] As for the school policy and the rental of premises, €143,000 per month, please, is paid by the Ministry of Education for Spaces. You have overlooked those who are attacking and who are reading, including that the situation in which we were different from when we adopted the hot lunch law, and that by adopting that law we have placed a good part of the schools in a situation where some of them have also been declared for payment of the fine because they were unable to provide an appropriate warm meal distribution or because they were unable to provide a warm meal. With this law, these schools, which are not able to adapt so quickly and also to the purpose of the law, should enjoy a young meal in this appropriate area, in conditions that will also be educationally encouraged to have a healthy and cultivated way of eating food, i.e. for those schools that cannot adapt so quickly that they can share a healthy meal. That's what this is about. A healthy meal should be provided to everyone with a general subsidy of 2/3. And that should be borne in mind when we snore others that they do not have a developed social sense. And now a few more words about another amendment that there was no talk about. This is the amendment of the four coalition groups sent and is in fact necessary because we have adopted a supplement on the committee that allows school management to provide full subsidies to lunches in those cases where the school finds that some new circumstances have arisen which have made the social situation of families so much different that students or students have the right to 100% of the subsidy. This is a case of unemployment due to family death or other circumstances. We have amended and adopted a new paragraph 5 on the Committee, but we have not yet adequately taken care of these things, so that it is also appropriate to say that those who have to make such an application are, in fact, parents or an individual at the head of the school, but the centre for social work is the one who makes the comments. This amendment of the four parliamentary groups will, of course, be supported, but I do not intend to support that amendment, which once again wants to return 100% subsidies to lunch in high school, because experience has shown that 10% of lunches have ended up in garbage. And it's also a training moment to develop a relationship, a responsible attitude towards what you get, that you just don't throw it away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, would you please apply? The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u20	You're in the hall wondering where you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u21	It's just a coincidence. We don't have anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u22	Now, about this solidarity or non-solidarity. At least for me, it's important to the question that is fundamental. Do we have enough money in the country to subsidize the entire student diet, primary school diet, and student diet? If the answer is yes, then at this point, I'm sitting around and not talking about it anymore. However, since I know that the answer is no and that it is necessary to find the right solutions, while our decision is based on solidarity, it should be stressed that the social difference in our society is, is present and does not arise when deciding what amount of the subsidy is needed for a given meal. Social distinction is present and we cannot hide it in this way. It's like what I used here a couple of times when they say, you know, our family was considered fair until it got divorced. It is similar with social pressures and with the difference in the quality of life of individuals in our society. Do you really think that the difference is not seen elsewhere than just in primary school? You can see the difference in clothes, shoes. Some have trademarks, others dress and shoes cheaper. Look in bikes, in motorcycles, and later in cars there is a big difference, and where young people can go with the money they have in their pocket. These are the differences. We want to limit these subsidies. To talk about the fact that this is at odds with social democratic logic, with solidarity, does not stand for one serious judgment. Who needs help? Probably the kind of guy who needs help. Many times I have been warned by people on the street how it is possible that the state has such arrangements that someone with a high-class car can drive their child to kindergarten and does not pay the full price for a child's services in kindergarten, the country with taxes on taxpayers, and those with difficulties who spend the whole month subsidizing those funds for which he is entitled, even though he has enough money to pay for his children both kindergarten and later all meals and school fees. Fortunately, we don't know the tuition in that form. What is more solidarity, what is more social-democratic than helping those who need help. And with these measures provided for by this law, we will also take care of children in primary schools, those who need subsidies. Of course, it must be taken care of, and here I agree with a colleague who spoke about the fact that there is no need to publish and hang information on the big bell, about those who receive the subsidy, which is the responsibility of each school or school management. If we say that those students whose parents can pay for lunch will also pay for this meal in full, because there won't be much more, there are many who will have subsidized, and the primary school will receive the fees, those who can't pay the lunch in full, this lunch paid in full. I think it's a good arrangement. Good regulation until we realize that we have enough resources in this state budget to have lunch free of charge for all, regardless of their social origin or substance. Therefore, it is not possible to support an amendment that restores the story to its original state. The main reason is that there is not enough resources for this. However, care must be taken for those who urgently need these funds so that they can normally attend both primary and secondary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, distinguished Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have reconsidered whether the proposed way for a new school diet is even necessary and appropriate. At the first reading of the law, we have warned and called for further reflection on the relevance of the new school diet regime. Instead of raising children, schools will deal with the data, identification and administration necessary for the implementation of this law, as the operators themselves have pointed out. Worse still, such arrangements will cause division, division between students and students, depending on the social situation, rather than being separated only by knowledge. In public schools, students and students should be equal, and they should differ according to their abilities, privileges, and knowledge, not by their parents ’ means or their families. In the parliamentary group, we advocate the principle of equality, which should especially apply to children. In school, children must be equal and equal without sharing them according to the situation of parents and the level of income in the family, which will result by determining how much they should contribute to lunch. We also advocate savings and measures to reduce public spending, not to the detriment of children and their health. The country should manage social taxes higher for the richest and with social assistance to socially weak families, not through the distribution of children. What kind of journey is this for children and students, and what kind of society will we build in this way? We are critical of trying to justify saving at the expense of children with such high-priced principles. We wonder what kind of society we are if we point to children and the state is spending unreservedly. We hear the government's promise of rebalancing and saving next year. Is the government slowing down because it doesn't want to lose the referendum and the local elections? He takes one to give to others. Or are these also pre-election candy, which are bitter, we take a partial free meal and boast about the principles. What kind of country are we if we justify changes with the principle of change in the explanation of the amendment? The principle of change, when at a critical point, when we urgently need to change our customs and values if we are to preserve civilization. We can even agree with this principle if it is not for children and their lunch. We agree to cultivate by example that we need to teach our children respect and appreciation for having bread on the table every day. However, we cannot agree with the argument that we will preserve civilization if we feed about 16 million that would be necessary for all children to have a free lunch in Slovenia. To some extent, the proposed law takes into account the social adjustment for students and students, yet it still preaches far too much difference within individual groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I will support the amendment to Article 15, which brings back the 100 % subsidisation of the student diet. The reasons are something. In fact, in this calendar year, the school year is slowly running out, with September starting a new, 16 million at the annual level, i.e. 4 million euros somewhere by the end of this calendar year of money enough, just here in the National Assembly let us take note that there will be no referendum, there will be a two-thirds decision on the arbitration agreement and we have already found the money here. If the government coalition wanted to, there would be no questions. Let us discuss here in the National Assembly that the law, which, with amendments to the capital law of 15 million, brings Mr Jankovic to the altar, is no, and is this 15 million for the diet of children. So we've already made a deal and it's settled. Here, the government coalition would also have the support of the opposition, and at these points they could be united. Not to mention, in particular, the payment to Greece, EUR 400 million, which will go just like this, and there is a lot to say about this. Oh. K. Let's leave that high European policy and say okay. Minister, opportunity and opportunity, you have been in the ministry for the second year, by being critical of the former school minister, not him and not you have done anything in the field of transporting children to school, to primary school, that. Why, Minister, do we have to pay up to 10 euros per mile? Because this country, this government, including the former in this area, has made mistakes, given money to carriers, subsidised transport to public transport companies and so on in public transport, but does not say that they are also linked to the transport of children we pay and would continue to pay them from municipal budgets, but at the same price as they take the same route where they collect the same bus and then take the next minute or the second one at a 10-time price. Why don't you take care of it? You're here, we've got enough money to pay for all the high school lunches and you're left with money for high school students. For six years, I've been talking like a deaf man good morning and he won't take it. Why, though, if there were apparently other interests in the rear? The ones you're loading here to save 10% of the food that gets thrown away in the trash and so on, that's just stupid. You know, the school should also be an educational and educational institution, because it can be arranged this way, after all, if you want someone who doesn't want it to be taken away. Or he'll take only one or only as much as he wants. It doesn't all fit. And let's give them that chance. If we don't give them this option, on the other hand, we're slandering them, you're gonna get something for free and now they don't respect it and throw food in the trash. So you can handle this? Not at all. I didn't agree with myself and I don't agree with the students in the sacred institutions and so on. But in this case, when they said they disagreed with such a way of subsidising or taking part of the subsidised diet away from them, this was actually the only point where they could have a word, but they were not taken into account here. Social distinctions, trademarks. Sometimes they would say "when it sings," but those who walk in Armenia, who walk with earrings, which are worth a few cars of average citizens and citizens, talk about social and trademarks and teach people, including these pay phones, how to survive with 180 euros, not 400, our farmers have 160 to 180 euros in pensions and they live with it. Well, by the way, we wanted to change something, fix it, we've already put in a marriage twice, but a government coalition that's what? [[...]] Some kind of welfare? What a social party this is, what is it, it has long been out of this country!? Even now this coalition is not a social democratic, obviously not, because apparently they are a Social Democratic party and this Social Democratic coalition understands this social democracy in a strange way - students on the street, workers on the market, and pensioners Where would you like to send them?Oh, my God! [[...]] You're already on the verge of survival. Even the promises of all those who have given their votes, of course, do not come true or even go in the direction they should go. And today something has already been said about taxes and data capture. Yeah, let's make an order in this country. See if someone bought some land after 8 ex-brands, in an ex-foreign currency, stamps, and you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u27	Comrade Pukšič, please stick to the amendment. I've left you for a long, long time. We're talking about amendments, it's possible to talk to this related amendment about something else, but now you're going far across the border. Please hold on to this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u28	I am truly grateful to you, Mr President, that you have warned me, because I really do not know which side I am on, whether I am on the amendment or I am in the social or diocese diet. After all this debate that was going on in here, and then I dared myself and allowed myself to extend this debate, as did your other colleagues. But it is true, Mr President, that these were coalition Members and they are allowed to do so. The opposition, however, must be warned, the opposition must be silenced, the opposition must be told that it has nothing to say, although it is a parliament where, if I were the one or the other, if I were you, if I were to leave someone behind, I would leave the opposition to say what lies with it. Because the coalition votes in one way or another and does what it wants. At least let us say this freedom and democracy in the opposition and also respond indirectly to some of the things that have been said by other coalition Members. I still insist that money should be collected primarily there and those who have come to him unjustifiably. But if they're building circles, intersections, highway connections today, and they're going to sell for 100 times or 200 times their value, here's where we're going to collect taxes and give high school meals, give student scholarships, and believe that the money is not going to be enough, but it's not going to be spent. I myself, as I mentioned, will support the amendments that go this way to return to the students what they already had.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! In view of the progress of this debate today, I would also like to say in the introduction that, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have given great importance to the field of education at a time when we participated in governments. This is also discussed by several laws, which have a common title of'school tolar', which dedicated the field of education to additional means to promote creative climate in Slovenia and to provide good material conditions. When we talked about the content of these laws, we gave priority, among other things, to investment, to teacher education, to learning technology, but also to school nutrition, because we were aware that a healthy lifestyle also required a healthy diet. If we want to introduce healthy behavioral patterns, including nutrition, we need to talk about nutrition from the time we were young. And here I would like to draw attention to the debate on the law on the subsidisation of the student diet, in which we then pointed out certain content that the then ruling coalition did not want to hear as the shortcomings of the proposed solution and is also related to the amendments that we are talking about here today. The first important message, which was at the time, why we only regulate a certain segment and that it is impossible to talk about true eating habits, healthy eating habits during a certain period of time that actually comes at the age of 15, while in the previous, earlier years we do not want to regulate it. And that's what this law is about now. We are talking about justice, where we are also hearing from the Government that this is one of the important criteria, that we are not talking about just one segment of society, that is, the secondary population, but we are talking about food in terms of fairness from the lowest age groups to the end of secondary education. When we discussed the law on subsidised diocese diet, this argument could not be presented in such a way as to be heard. The second moment that this law removes is also the one to which we have warned that a warm meal is not necessarily a healthy meal. And today it is clear in the law that a healthy meal is being introduced into the education process, a healthy meal that is supposed to be warm, but is also allowed within the framework of the professional guidelines for the formation of a meal, of course as a healthy meal. And the third element to which we have pointed is whether we are allowing everyone equal participation within the scope of the option. We have advocated and advocated the continued solidarity approach that those who can contribute more should contribute in order to ensure that those who fail to make this contribution can receive as much treatment as possible from this contribution. This element was not heard at the time, too, by this law. And here I find this to be an extremely important element. I'm a member of the parenting world of one of the primary schools. And we talked about how to improve the responsibility to food until meals. At the same time, we were aware that it was the shared responsibility of parents and children to raise their responsibility to food and that, of course, the food offered as a meal in school was nutritious. May the meal be as healthy and satisfying as possible for the growing young. And this element is also embedded in the principles adopted by this law. This means that those families where the average salary per individual member is below a certain percentage, this Slovenian society expresses solidarity that a meal for these students and these students will be absolutely free of charge. That those who are more materially wealthy may participate. They participate in the amount of less than €10 in primary schools and in the first grade 8 in the second class, which will pay the full subsidy, i.e. €1/3 and €16 per month. So that we can help those who are more in need. And I am taking such an approach, of course, with the desire that, if material and financial capabilities are available in Slovenian society, we may be able to increase this percentage, which is now set at 30% of the average wage per family member. And not only at one meal, but also at lunch, which we place on 5% of the average wage on a family member. Here, too, I would like to say that these percentages are increasing, and that, of course, the proportion of those who will have full subsidies in our schools will increase. Therefore, from this point of view, I will not support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I believe it deviates from this principle. Speaking of which, we're getting a finger-to-finger pointing at those who are socially weaker. In this law, great attention is paid to the application procedure for school meals, since everyone is applying, not as it is now, as is the case with the rules on subsidisation of school nutrition in primary schools, proposing to subsidise those who estimate that they are socially weak. All those who submit or wish to receive a subsidy in their application will now apply for school meals. And the identification process will be automatic, as it will be determined on the basis of documents collected by the Centre for Social Work on the basis of a proposal for the award of a child allowance. And this will be run by the school on the basis of a report that everyone, both students and students, will file. I would draw attention here to one of the very important elements of support for solidarity and different treatments in relation to social status. Recent research shows that the problem in those weak social environments is that young people no longer enter education at all, without being able to help them, but having already made it difficult to enter the educational process. And here is the responsibility of Slovenian society to enable such support to enable all to have equal access to the field of education. As you share with us here today, why do we try to do the same for students and students with the principle of fairness and not introduce a 100% subsidy in primary schools. I'm asking a logical question here. In 2008, we were in a very different conjunctural situation, and the public financial situation, as we are today, you did not respond to those warnings. And today you are telling us again about how students and students need to be heard. We have always agreed with this and say that it is necessary to involve all Slovenian potential in decisions in Slovenian society. And here on our side was the illogical exclusion from the world of high school students, and we have only corrected this in this mandate by reintegrating the students into the holy schools so that they can participate directly in decisions that are extremely important for their lives, the process of education, education. Here you come to a great extent by yourself between what you say and how you acted. To touch further on the proposal in this amendment, which says that the patients would have 100% subsidy for celliac disease. I would like to point out here that in the field of health we deal very closely with all such groups, which also have problems based on metabolic problems. Here I would like to point out that the area of celiac disease is an important area. But when I spoke to experts in this area, as already mentioned by my colleague Klavora today, there are many things already regulated in the second law, in the Health Care and Health Insurance Act, which also defines these things. But the area of metabolic problems that we consider to be problems of celiac disease is not the only group that requires attention. This is why it is a very important component of this law, which says that it will be very important to talk about these issues in the context of the guidelines for the nutrition of educational institutions, as a basis for the resolution adopted on policy, the food policy for the years 2005 to 2010. And here sensitivity is extremely important for these groups. Schools must provide professional guidance to ensure that these groups, based on medical diagnostics, are able to be fed in a way that does not lead to health problems. Here we draw attention to all those groups that have such problems, including celliacs. We do well to point out that this is being said and that schools under their obligations under this law are provided with conditions to prepare the dining rooms in such a way that they will be dealt with in the guidelines by a specific approach to these individual groups. As I said before, I will not support this amendment of the SDS Group. However, I think that in my performance I have also defined it precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, a nice welcome. Today, quite a few hard words have fallen down here, some demagogies, and it is only right to resist them. I will support the bill, but not the amendment. We're talking about social justice, social segregation, and I don't know what it's all about. Here on the concrete, I park a car and there's a whole truck parked next to me, in the form of a personal car worth 100,000 euros. Is such a citizen or a citizen in need of any social support? We say we're different in school. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm from Nova Gorica. Those Hit workers who are on strike today, ask them where they're buying clothes for their kids. But that doesn't mean we're gonna get the kids into uniforms. We're just different. Someone who needs help needs help needs help. And that's what Social Democrats do. We make a difference in the fact that many families live high, high above the standard, that the less they receive subsidies, that those who are socially threatened are unemployed, with zero income parents, that they will receive that subsidy. And it's being introduced here. It's a whole series of untruths. The proposal cancels a free meal. That's not true. Almost half the kids will have a free meal. The state saves at the expense of the students. That's not true. Not one euro goes from this cash register to another, but it also goes to primary school. I've been a principal for a number of years, I know what healthy nutrition means, what education means, that a child will also eat one-cell and not just in the McDonald's, and I don't know what to do, not to get caught up in old years of vascular and other disease. This education is extremely important, so every child in school has to eat. You took out a free apple in school and stuff. So, the truth is a lot, and I'm very sad that politics is taking advantage of young people again. Yesterday I saw a photograph in a medium, SDS had a meeting around arbitration and a little kid with a T-shirt against the arbitration. Are you going to write your own passwords on dudes? Let the young man live his life. Our job is to train them to live a healthy life, education, and the like. It is not that we abuse them, as we are likely to again before Parliament tomorrow, etc. I think this marriage is good and absolutely necessary. Let us ask parents who have children in primary school and in secondary school whether they are not interested in subsidies and assistance in the payment of meals in primary school. They're hard to pay there, too. As for diet, look at 500, 600 meals in one school to cook 3.4 meals of diet, which is no problem. This is what we did when there was no law, 20 years ago we did it in schools to enable the child with health problems, including proper nutrition. Please give up your demagogies and hard words and let us accept this law because it is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. Brultz, you really are, you are right, I agree with you. Stop demagogic. This is about as you said before the elections that you know that Slovenia can better rule. That's right. You were right. In Slovenia, better governance can be achieved. But from the moment we see how you rule. It's the same with food. Let's do it in a row. I'll read it. Well, Mrs. Potts, you don't have to read it so loud. [[...]] I will read your explanation for Article 15: "The fifth paragraph provides that other specific circumstances shall be taken into account when deciding on the right to additional snack subsidies in addition to income from a family member. Therefore, in addition to the form annexed to the law, the applicant must attach a justification on which...... and so on. This is exactly what we are explaining to you that this bill of yours, which is good in some parts, is not going to be a problem, even when it comes to strengthening the use of food. That's okay. But we have warned you that such a law as you suggest will generally increase bureaucracy. You'll need to fill out forms, carry certificates. The law has not yet been adopted, and you have already proposed another new annex. What does that mean other than bureaucracy? My parents are gonna have to fly back there for confirmation, and then to the other end. The certificates themselves. It's bureaucracy. So far, it's been pretty easy after status. The student had a subsidized diet and a dot. They didn't tell anyone whether the parents have a tolar more income or a tolar less. Easy, just like it's arranged for students. But why don't you get into trouble with your students if your parents have Mercedes or those big beasts, as someone mentioned earlier. But there's nothing wrong, and there's social justice. That's the simplest thing - by status, but there's no problem, but there's no division. Indeed, in the SDS we support the Government's intention to do so in primary school as well. Right and we support. But not on this account that the diaphragm diet is now going to be complicated to take one third of the students away, but I don't know how you're going to handle it with these forms, what it's going to look like. You say you gave more words to the students because you reintroduced their word into the world of the institution. What do they have to do with it, besides giving them more words and taking their lunch money? That's progress! That's a big deal! What doesn't matter is that you gave them what's essential, but you took it away from them. That's the whole point. Earlier, it was also said why we had not already arranged this in elementary school. You know, the answer is simple. We had to lay the foundations first. When the former government took power, it had to lay the foundations. And those first months of 2004 had to pay teachers first, because the previous government did not leave it to the previous government and it was necessary to pay teachers first and then build on this. And we gave free or subsidized diet to students by example of students, by status, and then time ran out. And now you're here, and now you're the one to handle it. We'll help you. Just don't take someone else, and then brag about how social justice is going to happen if you take something from someone else and give it to someone else. That's social justice. And something else that I find a little awkward. Earlier, one of your colleagues had a problem with what kind of country it was for someone to bring their children with a Mercedes, and then these children were given a subsidized diet. Dear Mary, if you haven't been in power for two years, you would have arranged it!Oh, my God! You don't even know you're ruling. You don't even realize that you have to do this in the tax area. That whoever owns this car won't have a subsidized diet. Make sure he pays more taxes. But it's already too complicated. It is the easiest thing for you to take your students’ diet because it is quite easy. That's the point. And you say the situation is different now. Of course they're different, nobody denies it. But they are also different in this sense, as you said two years ago, that you can rule better and that you will rule better and that pensioners will have 1,000 euros in pensions. Now it's not like that. That's an essential difference. And not only do they not have 1,000 euros in pension, but what the students already had, you're going to take that away from them. This is a fundamentally different situation. And that's what I'd like. So much has been said before about the rents that the Ministry of Education has to pay. Yes, of course, but then the owner becomes a state. Unlike a new way of ruling, where owners become friends of the minister, no matter who, they become friends. And let me remind you, the rent paid by the state to a friend of the minister will amount to €32 million to become the owner of the building. The whole diet that we're arguing about now, if we even put it into primary school and stayed in high school, is estimated to be around €6-7 million. But 32 million will be the building that the state will buy a friend of the minister. That's in five years. For 5 years in primary and secondary school, we would have subsidised food without problems. No, you'd rather give it to a friend of the minister. That's all right, and that's really social justice, until disability is just. And the only thing that I thought was good about today's debate is when the minister said it was about this, because the state doesn't have any money right now. I think that's fair. If that's the only purpose, then that's fair and then you don't have to talk about social justice, but I don't know what it is. It doesn't work together. At least tell Bob Bob, and we'll understand that the situation is now difficult, whether it's an external influence or what this government has produced, that's another. But the minister here said that, and that would seem like what he might have learned. Not to talk about social justice, so you take someone's side. That's the point. But it is true that I do not agree with the fact that the Minister immediately added that due to the balance. But this proposal was made before a proposal was made or even a reflection on the budget's rebalancing, because this Greek matter came a little later. And because of this Greek matter, it's supposed to be a rebalancing. But all that knitting, how it's gonna be fair if you take something from someone, and I can't accept it. I support the amendments proposed in the SDS. This means that we also support all of your efforts to make better use of or to make better use of or otherwise to say that food will eat all of it, that it will not throw away. You're right, we support you here, not that it's going to get complicated in the field of diastolic diet. But we can't accept this, because this is going to mean total bureaucracy, a bunch of papers. You have demonstrated this by this explanation of the amendment to Article 15 which you have proposed. The law has not yet been adopted, and you introduce additional papers when it is necessary to prove who is entitled to an additional subsidy by someone other than yourself. Every such finding is basically unfair, because you always have to set a limit. And he who is one cent before the border is justified, but he who is one cent for the border is no longer justified. That's criminal. That's social injustice. Therefore, the system set up for the student diet is adjusted, fair, normal, simple because it is subsidised by status. Children are all the same. Is it the children’s fault if the children are richer or poorer parents? They're not. They're not kids. At least don't make any difference here. When we're adults, it's different. But in children, make these differences. And this claim that in high school, you won't know who has an extra subsidy, who doesn't have one. This will be the first thing to know, the first thing the students will be able to discuss, whether it will be in the dining room or those who will not, will immediately know that they are not subsidized. Whether they're richer or not, it's a matter of what else. But I'm afraid the whole thing is going to get the most affected by those whose parents have such jobs, when virtually every tolar they deserve goes through the tax administration. They're the ones that get hurt the most. And if you want to be socially fair, then you have to start with tax policy and capture all the revenues, not the black market or the gray market, the gray economy, because that's the worst and that's where the worst goes wrong. And be aware, do not complain about how this can be done in this country, you change it, and we always support good proposals. Always! That's not the best idea. But it is true that this law also introduces some of the good aspects, and we have already made that clear to you, so we will not oppose it, but it is not good. But it's about, really small money, a few million euros, and we'd have been saved in high school and elementary school. And remember, for the rescue of your minister's friend, the state will pay EUR 32 million, which is for five years of subsidised nutrition in secondary and primary school. I support our three amendments, and I will not support the amendment of government parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! If, in 2008, when we adopted this law of yours, which is why, today, all you've done from 2004 to 2008, it might hurt someone else to talk about it a lot. If we had taken the initiative of the opposition at that time to introduce this subsidy into primary schools, we would not have this debate today. That is why, of course, I reject the amendment tabled by the SDS because it undermines the basic concept of this proposal or this amendment to the law. Why? First, of course, it must be acknowledged when you all talk so much about social distribution that social distribution is greater from day to day. Even when we are discussing school nutrition, this must be acknowledged. And, of course, some things, including the subsidisation of the student diet, need to be adapted to this situation, which is unfortunately, economic, social and economic, such that one has a large number and the other has little and is on the verge of survival and simply needs to be helped. Therefore, it is necessary to reject the demagogic statements in order to abolish the subsidy in the diet of the students. That's just not true. Two thirds of all students keep the subsidy, one third of these students and elementary school students, that's just over 35%, and not only will they have this two-thirds subsidy, but they'll have food for free because they're at or below this social minimum. We're not shutting anything down. What remains is, we are only introducing this sense, which must be taken into account today, that is justice and solidarity, because one has more and the other has less, that even those who cannot do so may come to this food. And analyses and evaluations from primary school indicate that some parents are in a difficult situation. And from this point of view, I think this proposal for the amendment of this law, once again, is the only saving plant in this situation that can solve this in its own right. The Golden Times, and the Golden Age, from 2004 to 2008, when we suggested that we bring this into primary school, you refused and you didn't want it. The reasons why, you know for yourself. That is why I am on the side of this positive discrimination of socially weaker layers that those who have also help to subsidise this diet to those who do not have it. And a few other things you're talking about here today. You say on average: they don't subsidize anything in high school. That's not true. In high school they subsidise textbooks, subsidise transport to work and so on. Just like in elementary school. One of your colleagues said earlier that there were no other subsidies in high school. That's just not true. And maybe there's something else in the end. I was already in the previous debate, when we had a general discussion, also talking about this generational classification and I said that parents should simply help when children are at the beginning of their journey, it is in kindergarten, in primary school and until high school. And I think it's fair and fair that even parents who have children, students in primary schools, are helped in this situation, even in this way. That's why I'm going to support this marriage with all ten fingers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Today we've heard a series of readings on our account. One of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party has even given us a right-wing social policy. It is absurd to see Dr. Lukšić as a right-wing politician to this government and to the Minister of Education. Today, according to the current legislation, 122 thousand primary schoolchildren receive nothing. Under the School Diet Act, 60,000 pupils and pupils in primary schools will be eligible for free lunch, and 104 000 pupils and pupils will receive a subsidy of at least two-thirds of the price of lunch. We will, of course, arrange for more social justice and there will be 90 000 students and students eligible for free lunch in Slovenian primary and secondary schools. In these few months, since we have been considering this bill, we have also heard a number of half-truths about the law mainly by the biggest opposition party. As they said, the abolition of the student meal subsidy will lead to the separation of the students from the poorer to the richer. In fact, it's different. The equalization of the rights of the rich and the poor, with which the former government thus served the rich, is the result of a non-conservative policy. Differences need to be mitigated by positive discrimination against socially weaker layers, not by introducing some universalism of rights and blurring the social picture of the country. Then, too, it was false or half-truth that it was not acceptable for justice to be abolished during the crisis. That's not true. It's a crisis that requires this kind of redistribution. For example, principals in primary schools warn that more and more claims are being made from the payment of meals in primary schools, as some parents cannot pay these bills. That is why we regulate and distribute school meals also in primary schools and, as it is said, 60,000 students and students will receive free lunch, and 104 thousand students and at least two-thirds of the school lunch price, so talking about the right-wing social policy of this government is completely absurd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the rest of you are welcome! I'd start where my colleague Bevk ended up. It also seems very important to take into account the fact that, if possible, we learn about them in every debate we have in the National Assembly. Today, in this debate, because I want to start at the beginning, we have also heard that we are changing this school diet at a time when Natalie is going back. However, I can't blame Members who have not been personally involved in lifting their nativity for not knowing anything about it at first hand, but in the statistical calendar that we all received, we could ask ourselves how it is with this nativity. It's just been growing in the last five years. It may also be irrelevant where Nobel Peace Prize winners come from a few years ago, and the fact is, of course, it does not come from India, but it does come from Bangladesh. Maybe someone doesn't care, as was said here, about the minister's friends, that it doesn't matter which friends, whose minister. But for me personally, it certainly doesn't matter. Since I am a member of a party whose half of the ministers or ministers represent women, I think that this is of no concern, especially as far as these two ministers are concerned, as well as some others who are sitting in the government, but I find it difficult to speak for them firsthand. If we take the facts into account, we also need to know that there is no indication here that children will be divided into those who will be able and those who will not be able to pay when this amendment is adopted or not accepted. Children are no longer paying for anything, no child pays for anything, but everyone eats and pays their parents. If a person shares, parents can share, so it is also difficult to talk about some social status of the students, social rights, because some of these things are viewed within a family where a child or a student lives. If someone wants to see the financial status of adolescents, it would probably depend on how much they get from their parents, perhaps if someone with a student’s job earns something or is more or less kind to their parents, aunts, etc. But that's not the topic today. We must agree that parents are the ones paying for this diet. It is not now about taking students or giving students, but it is important to look at the intragenerational solidarity between the younger middle generation among people between the ages of 30 and 45, and the different personal circumstances have affected that they now have children in kindergarten, in primary school, in high school and perhaps even in college. Some of this generation have to pay, some of them don't have to. Why do those who have children in high school not have to pay, regardless of their social status, and those in primary school, although they may not have an easy social status, have to pay? This is a question that we need to resolve within generation solidarity, and later this thing can be seen through the optics as advocated by the representatives of the students, and for which tomorrow they will go to the streets as some generational rights that they do not want to give up. Maybe, legitimately, okay, but the truth isn't exactly there. If this debate is already spreading, then it is necessary to say and speak with this amendment as well, I apologize, Mr President, if I may spread this debate about small work and, of course, also about pension reform, how much, what generation, when, who benefits from whose good it is. I think that the law, as proposed, is well-designed, in the right direction and to take into account the current economic circumstances. I understand what social justice and solidarity mean. But the amendment goes in the opposite direction. If the truth is that some uniformity is the same so that everyone gets the same status, it is, of course, necessary to remember the discussions in the National Assembly about the awards for successful work, for doctors, for schoolchildren, for other government officials. If so, then the status should be the same and the balance sheet should apply. Of course, a balance sheet is a matter of another system. It is interesting, however, what initiatives are coming from this balance sheet at this time in this amendment, in the adoption of this law. If the bill-maker truly believes that the rich should contribute in the same way as the poor or nothing, then it can be, in some way, with the previous proposals of this proposal for a uniform tax rate, even though we have not heard of the abolition of the social allowance for the richer, so that the richer can contribute in the same way as the poor in the social and health treasury if they take the same rights from it. Perhaps the proposer here should be consistent or withdrawing this amendment if he does not really believe what he says. But it could be a different purpose. As I doubt that the purpose of the previous law governing diocese diet was to change the poor eating habits of students. The fact is that students, at least in the last year, are some voters, and this may be when we talk here about a few tens of millions that are not supposed to be a problem for the state budget, perhaps a welcome asset in obtaining the new 15,000 voters per year. Although I am skeptical of such reasons myself, I may regret that I said it in my own way, but in the National Assembly, when various laws were passed, there was a lot of speculation about who wanted to and how to buy, acquire, or otherwise provide voters. Once again, I say that the adoption of this law will make no distinction between children and children. Everybody's gonna eat. And that's what matters. It is also important, and we really like it in the Group of Members to eat healthy. We are also pleased that the proposer has taken into account some of our proposals on organically produced and integrated food some improvements concerning the speed of food coming from field to plate, from villa to fork, if you want, because we believe that this will also contribute in some way to the work of Slovenian agriculture, which in this way will receive a permanent customer for its quality food production. As already mentioned here by my colleague Jerajeva, I think this is recorded in the resolution on food policy. Thus, the law deals systematically with the subject. Then perhaps there would be a need for more things about this understanding of solidarity and not solidarity. Comrade Petan said here in the debate that if this is solidarity or if it is social justice to take away and give someone else, then I do not understand the debates that were here by my colleague Puksic, who said "know, take the one who bought the square meter after 8 mark, will now earn and give it to someone else". And there could probably be some debater who has debated a lot that Slovenia is rich enough to create enough, but only reallocation is poor and unfair. I think the vice-president of the Committee on Social Affairs was the one who said, "Knowledge, we are rich enough, we can give, we can give for greater social support, we can pay a higher minimum wage" and what else we could find. All arguments must be consistent if they are to be taken seriously, systematically and not only in the short term, for the needs of the day, to say so, politics. I think it's important here that intra-generational solidarity is established between parents, both primary school children and students. As for the students mentioned here, they have the opportunity to choose a cheaper or more expensive voucher. This social component is more a matter of personal choice. What the state provides is the same subsidy for all. And what the state provides is equal to the quality of the meal. These are the rules for who can become a concessionaire, who can offer student food. However, it is a matter for every student to decide whether to eat in a college cafeteria where a meal is likely to be cheaper, whether to afford a meal in a restaurant in the center of the city, where he will have to show up and probably also show what brand he has to use. It's everyone's free choice. That's why I'm guessing that's why we fought, to say the least, that we have free choice in this country. My choice as to this amendment is clear, and I will reject it. I believe the Ministry has reconsidered what kind of marriage it has given, and that has given it a good thought. I hope, although of course it seems naive to anyone that the desires for free nutrition in primary school and in high school can be realized when economic reasons are given. But, of course, I have to say, I think it's the law, so to speak, social-democratic. However, as far as understanding this solidarity is concerned, social justice is concerned, and I note that once the predecessor of the SDS party has tried to understand this solidarity and justice, as is understood in the social-democratic internationality, and has apparently not been heard, and is now another international that understands these things differently. However, what was the wish of the founders of this party, and you probably know the current members of the Slovenian Democratic Party better than I know. And in this fundamental difference, our agreement or disagreement with regard to the proposed amendment also concerns us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u41	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support those amendments that we have tabled and which provide high school students with free food to continue. Mr Vice-President, allow me one more matter, in fact. About an hour ago, I was going to report to Mrs Majdo Potrata for a replica, and for business reasons I was not able to do so, so I applied for the debate. And since the forerunner, Mrs. Potrata, somehow got out of these amendments and talked about hiring the Ministry of Education building, let me touch myself very briefly, and I hope that this will be possible. Mrs Potrata, look, you said that it was actually the same thing in the case of the Ministry of Education, which also has rented premises, but here on this page it does not bother us. Since we are both schoolchildren, we both know that references to people or listeners, students, students, students, students should be made exactly, and what comparison should be given. I'm going to do it so visually right now, I'm going to explain to you what the difference is. Look, in the case of the Ministry of Higher Education, the company that invested in the construction of this building is owned by the state. Or, in other words, the state has a budget with a certain amount of money, and I hope you will look at me, and it has set up a company called DSU that put me in this pocket. This company built this building and leased it to the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education pays for this or, in other words, takes the state out of this pocket to put it in this pocket. And all that remains, Mrs Potrata, is still, in fact, within what is called the state budget if we take this bag for the state budget, and nothing goes out. Nothing goes in any private pocket. In short, it goes from one pocket to another. After 20 years, however, it doesn't matter whether he owns the Ministry of Education or will own the DSU, because it's all a country where there's no money flowing into private pockets. However, in the case of the National Investigation Office, the story is slightly different. See, the Ministry of the Interior or the country from this treasury takes €136,000 a month and they will, look at Mrs Potata somewhere in her wallet in the owner's pocket, which is called Mr Pogacar. This Mr Pogačar, however, gives the bank 125,000 and he still has 11,000. That's the fundamental difference. Or if we count it to 20 years, it goes to this part of the state budget's 32 million. And he's giving the bank about 20 million from that wallet, and he's got 20 million left. Trust me, after 20 years, he'll get 136 from the state budget every month in his wallet. You know, after 20 years, he'll probably have to buy a bag. His wallet will be too small. And here's the important difference, Mrs. Potrata. And don't fool things like that. In the case of the Ministry of Education, however, the situation is as I described it. I hope you listened to me because you weren't looking at me. And I hope you understand now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President. I had no intention of taking this debate today, because at the first debate it was so much said, concrete, and today there has been a very similar debate for quite some time, as if the deaf had not heard what is normal. What matters to me is what the proposer, the Ministry of Education, wrote in this law in the introduction. In the title itself, the law refers to school diet, which is intended to replace the law that speaks of subsidizing only student diets. The introduction also makes it very clear that the proposed draft regulates school nutrition in secondary schools in a more comprehensive and socially fair manner and, of course, extends the right to subsidised nutrition to primary school students. This is about generational solidarity, because at home, as we have already heard, parents pay all these bills and at home there are also children who attend kindergarten, primary school and also high school. Among them, solidarity is a quality way of life. It is already so that we have always been different and in the future we will be different, but the task of our country is for all of us to know what is good and best at a legal moment. And also what I think is great and therefore also support the law is that we are talking, of course, not about a warm meal in which many schools still have a problem in providing high schools today, of course, I am talking about technical infrastructure that is not yet in place, but here we are talking about a healthy meal for which other professional services are finally involved. It is indeed a marriage that offers better conditions for the work of students and elementary school students who learn and spend their time in schools. For this reason, it is a matter of disrespect, of social injustice, of creating additional consequences or of even taking some rights, probably for those who do not look like Slovenians, of deceiving them. Even when we are talking about infrastructure and additional costs, we have heard earlier that this law, with additional subsidies, is not the case. On the contrary, it would be necessary to look at the first debate or wide debate when colleagues spoke about the need to further ensure control of the pools, the implementation of this subsidised diet. Of course, they did not see what this control brought about. Of course, additional tasks and administration, so we always have two parts, I'll say, a carrot with the upper and lower parts. Let me say that, of course, I fully support the law, I also support the amendment proposed by the coalition parties, thus, of course, that we have sat very intensively with the law and the trainee of the Ministry of Education and have proposed the best solution for those who will also be users of the law. Let me also say, of course, in this debate, that there are quite a few content subsidised and all those students who come from the region or the surrounding area, you know that I come from Celje, and that a few children drive to secondary school in Ljubljana and it is not quite easy to be away from home all day, so it is important how their lives are regulated and how the country subsidises all their day, schedule, year when they are percentages of the home. This law seems to me only one more in the group or in the chain of those who regulate the whole life of young people, I am also talking about previous proposals for legislation that will follow us specifically from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when the last concern for young people, when they are transferred from kindergarten, school, secondary school to students, is regulated entirely. This is also what our government and what the Social Democrats care about when we look at our youth as a whole and try, of course, to make that period of life the most quality and enable everyone not to make the differences that have not been made in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u45	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, Your Honor. I have no doubt that this law will be adopted in the form it is. Surely there are many solutions in this law that need to be adopted, which must also have been prepared, that must have been well prepared. The only thing is, of course, that we had at the first reading of this law, a comment on this part to stop this free diet in high school for all students which was introduced a few years ago. I also mentioned one of the reasons in the debate. Today, colleagues from SD, colleague Kontić and colleague Brulc mentioned something similar in the debate, which is an old topic. It's not a two-year-old darkness, or five- or six-year-old darkness, but it's the darkness of at least a decade or two. These comparisons, someone brings a child into kindergarten with a Mercedes, and then they have a subsidized kindergarten. That's not a problem. I, too, was always forced to take part in congregational criteria, and that too was not possible at the time, to solve these problems, or always to comment on this account. They certainly are, and I mentioned this the previous time at first reading also as one of the reasons why I find it difficult to determine what kind of subsidisation one of the children is entitled to. That's not the problem with this marriage. This is a problem of our legislation in other areas, particularly in the area of tax administration or data capture, especially tax, property data and so on. I believe that this area is completely extremely difficult to resolve, but these cases are coming up, and they are even more pronounced. Now colleague Andrei Richter was talking about moving to school. I also highlighted the problem of transport to school a month ago, two months ago, in particular in some or all rural areas, where virtually all children, especially secondary schoolchildren, drive from home to the city centres in secondary school, where sometimes there is a problem that some day, including students, are missing from school because of the inability of parents to pay for transportation to school. But once again, this is not a problem for the last two years, these are problems that have been arising since before. When we resolve these issues, this should be an appeal to another part of the legislation or to the Government, which is preparing appropriate measures to ensure that the data obtained from the social work centres and schools and so on, all those who capture and use this official data in individual calculations, so that these data are, of course, realistic. The fact is, especially in the countryside, this property status is even more familiar with family to family or in the neighborhood than with parents. This feeling is particularly acute in children. It seems to me that the problems that arise are parallel to solving this problem and require another solution and some other action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u47	Mr. Miran Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. I will only talk about this law and the bill and the amendments, although I do not object to some colleagues drawing any correlations with other areas, and this is entirely justified because the consequences of this law have a broader reach. I am thinking mainly about the social field, the scholarship policy, as we have also heard about the issue of transport, the distance of students, students from school and so on, not to mention the reckless spending of state money in other areas. In fact, sometimes it makes sense to say something about this law, saying not only directly about the law. I'll limit myself to the law. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that the content of the proposal for the School Diet Act is meaningful and necessary. Although our reservations and concerns have already been expressed in the presentation of our Group's position at the first reading of the law in question. Regrettably, however, the bill remains essentially unchanged for a second reading, and we therefore insist and remain in our reservations and concerns. In particular, I am referring to the limitation of subsidies for secondary school students, because this reduces their already acquired rights right in the National Assembly two years ago. The opposition of secondary school youth is justified. We fully agree with the introduction of the objectives of this law, in particular the claim that ensuring quality and subsidised school nutrition affects the optimal development of pupils and students, their development in the consciousness of healthy nutrition and food culture, including the presence of educational moments in terms of relation to food, health and the environment, and the precondition is certainly normal access to healthy school meals. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that obtaining a free meal for all pupils is very important and would prevent the improper diet of our youth even more widely, helping to acquire healthy eating habits between primary school and secondary school youth. We therefore consider that the reduction in the current 100 % subsidy does not follow the above-mentioned objectives that I have cited. We find it difficult to understand such short-term planning for the implementation of the law, which is already early in the school year 2010-2011. Indeed, the reality of the deadlines for carrying out the individual activities foreseen by the law is questionable. Here I also think those activities referred to in Article 37 of the amendment, for example, will be particularly impossible to prepare and issue decisions on subsidisation up to 31. 8. 2010 On one occasion, I got into the hands of one Mayor and I fully agree that it would be reasonable for parents to submit their applications for food and possibly additional subsidies in early September, and that procedures for verifying the conditions for subsidisation would continue until October. The conclusions themselves could be issued immediately after this with retroactive effect. Article 37 imposes on school authorities, school administrations and bureaucrats a huge task if I quote: "The school diet rules do not accept the principal's proposal by the school council by 25 August 2010 at the latest. The Council of the School on adopted school nutrition rules shall subsequently obtain the opinions of the Board of Parents, the Teachers’ Assembly and students or students and shall deal with them by the end of September 2010.' I'm having a little bit of a weird time here. Whether this will actually be possible in practice as the proposalr plans, but we will only see. I don't even know what the saints of parents, the saints of schools will have any authority over this adoption of the rules, when we are actually setting the rules by law, and I don't know if they will object to what this opposition is about. Are they going to be able to accomplish anything with this? Well, I have already talked about this in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party in the first reading and I would not now repeat myself, because, as I see it, in the second reading, everything remains in fact the same, except for a few amendments of the coalition members' groups, but the amendments of the SDS Group of Members mainly here I am referring to the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, which, unfortunately, does not appear to have any prospects for acceptance due to opposition from members of the coalition. However, nothing was said today about certain other articles or their amendments, such as Article 4, here is added the sixth indent, or the point where the speech is also, say, about machines for fast food or beverages in school facilities or in the immediate vicinity of the school, which will also trigger certain controversy, questionability, justifications, as to what I would say, strict justifications for this section, which speaks of unhealthy content of these machines, about harmfulness to health, which, of course, may be controversial for someone, and in my personal opinion, one such provision would undermine standards achieved in schools, in student homes. For it is not only that it was one investment, which in some way meant enriching the supply of food and beverages, but, on the other hand, those students who paid or paid for their lunch would be banned in some way, if necessary, by their taste, for example, to have this opportunity at their disposal. I don't personally agree with this, and even less in the explanation of the amendment, when you speak, because they have drinking water. But we've really come a long way now, except for drinking water in schools, so there's no way to get anything else available, in our own taste, but I think it's a really socrealistic measure. I don't think we'd accept that, even though I know it's all in vain, what I'm talking about here right now. If I conclude this opinion, this proposal for a law still puts us in a little national position. There is something good in it, but there is something that is not acceptable, for example, for me or for a colleague or a colleague. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will give free hands to the decisions of our Members, so that everyone decides as he thinks best. However, I should have said one more thing about the conclusion, because I mentioned it at first reading, and now it is not even being discussed. This is that we agree with the position and thinking of some who propose that the provision of basic conditions for the implementation of school nutrition, both in primary and secondary schools, should be an integral part of the basic activity and standard of these schools and be included in funding from budgetary resources and should not be defined as a social category. Those who have followed the debates about the adoption of this law or the proposals for this law are likely to be aware of what this means and that this is a thesis that we have not thought about and talked about. In such a case, parents should, as a rule, bear only the costs of food and material costs, costs of school meals which are not included in budgetary financing. Thus, only budgetary resources to cover the costs of space and equipment and labour costs for students and students from socially disadvantaged families could be taken into account for subsidies as a social adjustment. There was a lot of talk here today, and it wasn't all as stupid as some of you sometimes want to oppose those who think differently, because you're just stuck in your head that a proposal like this has to be accepted. Of course, any matter can be excused, if we do a little rhetorical work, we can show it completely in a different light, but I am afraid that in practice this law will show quite a few shortcomings. And then what? Who will be responsible for this? Are we going to update it again? Are we going to amend it? So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u49	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u50	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Everyone else is present. The former government, Janša's government, has legitimized the subsidisation of the student diet in its entirety. This set a new standard in the field to be regulated, because research has shown that in this segment, in the student segment, food irregularity is the most extensive. After almost two years of introduction, positive results are shown. It would therefore be logical, and so our expectation was that the new government would upgrade and continue to take good steps in this area, not that this system would begin to collapse. Why is this system collapsing? Because of the alleged lack of funds available and a small fraction is taken from and given to primary school diet. Instead of 100% subsidisation, we are talking about two-thirds of it, and in money it is said to be 6 million euros a year. It was precisely in these days that it was decided that Slovenia would give Greece around EUR 400 million in return. 400 million euros. Falcone's been standing for another year. A million and a half dollars a year was the realisation of the rent from this plane. Only on this Falcon, if the masters had it in their hands and managed it as they could get that amount. So money's not the problem. If the masters are well and the funds are allocated where they are needed and where they are effective. So what's the problem? I fear that the problem is something else and that it is that famous paradigm you started at the beginning of the mandate, when you started long and after you destroyed everything that was done in the previous period. This is a very poor journey to the continued functioning of this government and to take decisions in many other areas. Unless this amendment, which we propose, is not adopted, it means that a principle of inequality and injustice continues to be maintained. There are quite a few children in Slovenia who cannot use such food because they have a disease called celiac disease. Why are these children in an unequal position with others? Why would this amendment, which we are proposing, not allow them equal rights, be a relatively small amount of resources, and even here, in my opinion, there should be no reason why this right should not be properly enacted. There is no dilemma that the amendment proposed is good and that it should be supported. In no sense does it constitute a financial threat to public finances, but it does mean that the system that was enacted during the previous government under this government would be upgraded and implemented further. However, I fear that the costs of additional unnecessary administration that you are adhering to this law will be borne by you. This is what this law brings, a bunch of bureaucratic tasks that will in most cases be the goal: however, these costs at the level of the whole country will be almost as much as you are supposed to shift from one segment of the diet to another. And last but not least this difference, this money could be found in the system itself. Last November, in December, we witnessed information that the Ministry of Education had envisaged that it would remain in an area called the purchase of equipment after a variety of schools for about 3 million euros. And what happened? A quick call was made, some distribution of this equipment by schools in such a way that they received for EUR 3 million all schools in Slovenia some equipment with which they practically have nothing to do, some laptops and some photographic equipment. This is a mismanagement of money, and it would be much more beneficial to use it in a systematic way, in such a way that those who really need it would have something to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u51	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, because my colleague Kumer has already told us what a mistake it is to the public when we hear in the reports and read that a free meal in high school is to be abolished. It is not true that a free meal is to be abolished, it will still be subsidized up to two thirds, so it is not cancelled. Only those who do not come from socially less stimulating environments should be paid monthly to be precise, for one group of €8 and for the other group €16. Opponents of this proposal shall ensure that secondary schoolchildren renounce a healthy school meal. However, it is necessary to ask whether 8 euros a month is such an extra payment to give up two-thirds of the daily school meal they will receive free of charge. When we talk about the abolition of their rights, I would then expect that this is some kind of possessional right, which is long-term, and we know that at the end of the 2008 term they received this right with very reckless and fast solutions in high school. At the end of school, high school students are known to be electives. Make your decision all by yourself. And when the Law on the Subsidisation of Primary Nutrition was proposed in the same mandate of this very capable government, the law was rejected on the grounds that nutrition in primary school was well regulated and that it did not need any changes, although they had then abolished the health apple in the previous term, although it was possible to read the conclusions on how due to the unhealthy way in which the generation attended the primary school and also the secondary school, in one part too difficult, and in the other part too easy not to talk about any other advantages for which young people are very sensitive. And this is also an answer to my colleague Györek, who has "scandalized" himself over the agreed provision that machines with sodas and snacks should no longer be installed in school premises under this law. And he was "scandalising" and talking about socialism, even though we know that in other countries of Europe they don't understand why our young people drink so much sugar. And the effects on health and the label of overindulgence in sweet and soda drinks are probably not to be taught. To this end, appliances for the supply of sweet and sodad drinks and other snacks are placed in the law. But there'll be no mistake. This amendment was adopted by the Committee. Therefore, those who only now find that this is included in the amended proposal of the law have slept through some of the treatment. I am sorry, Mr Györek, who is not currently in the Chamber, is the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, and I expect him to have read these things, just as he has read the amendments and second readings, as amended by Article 37 and how the dates have been set. And I hope that he also knows how Article 6 sets out the rules for the adoption of the school diet regulation. The discussion was about overadministrative administration and someone referred to the annex to this law. He probably didn't look at the annex, and I don't know that parents for primary school students are the applicants for school meals who sign this application and also commit themselves to covering the full cost of a meal if they don't sign off on time. And this must be written in this way, because the sanction is respected/foreseeable. It can't just be like that. Now for the basics. The application is for everyone. It is said that it will not be possible to report to the law that it introduces the identification of those who will have a full meal subsidy. Because everyone will apply for school meals, and everyone will sign up to guarantee that they know what conditions they apply for school meals. Indeed, there are more of these letters and these annexes, because the law has been taken into account that bilingual forms are also required for a bilingual area, and that is why there is more. It's good to see something so we know why it's been brought in. Registers and registering will cost us an additional €80,000, we have been explained. And no extra employee will be required to do so, the application forms are met by the parents. And that's what someone who mentioned that someone who, due to special circumstances, will apply for a full subsidy, this paper will already be one way or another, this application for school meals will already be at school. [[...]] Now it will only be necessary to inform the school management that some new circumstances have arisen, making the individual entitled to full compensation. Of course, it would be possible to talk about many things, just as many have talked about many things. And when I talked about the cost of renting the Ministry of Education building, it was my reaction to another debate that talked about where everything could be saved. Of course, it would be possible to save and not give a year 17 million 340 thousand to rent the premises in which the Ministry of Education operates. But to me, the question is, where would the Ministry of Education then work, like any other job that works in some rented premises, and they're not or any other hired under the most favourable conditions, I suppose. That is why I support the position taken by the President of the Government as an initiative and which is also announced that a special service will be set up to take care of the rental of property for the entire state administration, so that these leases will be more favourable. And there's no mention that after the end of the contract, after which the Ministry of Education pays even more than I calculated for the first time, that's 152 thousand 839.68 euros a month if the data I got was accurate. Therefore, nothing is recorded in that contract, because we were unable to ensure that the ministry could then be the owner of these premises, so that it would have only some priority rights, by which it would be able to exercise these rights after the lease expired. And also here these rental costs are not only a little bare coverage of credit or leasing obligations, but also something else. Of course, I didn't see the contract, and I can't tell you how much it was that was there. And in this way, we could say that it would be possible to save on a lot of things. But we're talking about the School Diet Act, we're talking about how much the school diet budget is. And in the given circumstances, it is possible to allocate as much money for school meals as we have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u53	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u54	I didn't think I'd have to come by again, but there was a whole bunch of things said that needed to be commented on. Some people like to use the term "rich parents." Wealthy parents, as we know, also pay more into the common treasury, from which we then share what we are discussing today. Someone mentioned that in primary schools, I don't know how many kids don't have lunch or have to pay for it. In primary schools it is now possible, therefore, that those who are socially at risk receive a regressive diet. So we have to get this straight first. Then some of you tell us that we did this because of voters just before the end of the term. In doing so, forget that our Member of Parliament, Jože Tanko, made such a law twice before, 2001 and 2003, when there were no elections when there was another government. So don't tell us we didn't want to settle this area before. But it is only with our government that we have actually succeeded in bringing this law and also adopted it for reasons because our government has decided to pursue a positive family policy. We wanted to and asked our parents what the problem was because we were all dealing with a bad demographic picture and so on. And they said that it was an expensive kindergarten, that they were expensive textbooks, that they were expensive different things, that they had to pay for the children to be expensive at the end. And that's why we tried to take steps in this direction, so we introduced a free kindergarten for another child, a student diet, a whole bunch of other things that obviously also affected that we can talk about a better demographic policy today. I'm not pretending it's just for the government. Of course not. However, steps have been in the right direction and the results show. So no one is going to convince me that it's not a step back if we're taking something now. Tomorrow the students will demonstrate, even for this. Someone said we're abusing them. Who's using them? Did we invite them? Will they come for us to demonstrate, or perhaps because of your law, which one of you here is so eager to defend? I don't know who's using someone right now and why he's being abused. In the name of saving, you take the students to give, of course, you touch to put something in primary school, so that it is somehow justifiable, because otherwise you would change the law that you supported with a heavy heart at the time, 2008 suggested because you would not have an excuse to do so on the other side. That's your problem, and that's why you can't defend it. In the previous term, we have worked hard to defuse the laws of additional bureaucracy and those things that are not necessary. Some of you say it's going to be automation now, everyone's going to be reported, and it's going to run like a running lane. It is now, indeed, not only in the form, the problem is that these 84 thousand forms will have to be processed, examined, checked to see if the actual data are listed. If someone asks for a subsidy, is that really the case with his social situation? Don't say it's not an administration anymore and he won't have to deal with it. It's okay to write a form. We write a thousand forms, but that's what one parent will write for his child. But someone will have to examine and process this, then process the complaints if no subsidy is granted and so on. So don't say no more administration. 84 thousand places or, if only two thirds of the students will pay, it is then 50,000 places. Is this a new administration or is it not, 8 euros and 16 euros on the books? I don't know if we understand each other or don't we understand each other? I'm sure you're paying what bills at home or who's paying you? And that is why we draw attention to this additional administration, which will require a lot of money and it would be much smarter to leave this money for meals. There's so much talk about renting spaces and rented premises. Look, since it's not a problem, the state clearly hires if it doesn't have its own premises, but it's a big difference if it hires state-owned companies or does it to a private company that puts some money in its pocket. And our government has decided to reduce the number of tenants to arrange the premises. That is why many things have been bought in the internal market. We're paying a lot less rent today than we did five years ago, you'll have to admit it or you'll get information, and you'll see it's true. And instead of continuing to do that, we get a list of what the state will sell, because it doesn't need it, and it doesn't need some rent, instead of remodeling these things, which it owns, and the whole bunch of rents would go away. If we want to do this, of course, but because we're pushing someone's pocket or I don't know how, that's not the way we do it. And to set up another agency, or someone else, who's going to deal with it right now, while also setting up a whole bunch of accepted contracts and so on. I don't know how long we've been talking about the National Investigation Office. The President of the Government says that we will no longer operate with this company instead of saying, "Let's cut off all the contracts we have with this company if the company is a problem. It's probably if he made that decision. In short, stop fooling around and stop talking about things that will make things even more complicated. And don't say schools have problems. Where they have them, they remove them and they have to do something because the law has been passed and they have to enforce and comply with it. But that's the only way we got them to arrange the dining rooms, arrange the kitchens, and start doing it, or they didn't care where these kids eat or eat. We made a different decision, I said why, because we adopted resolutions because we were dealing with children being malnourished, so that they were too fat to have a whole bunch of problems that other countries also know. That's why we've been doing these things. And if the thing is bad, if you think that the law is wrong - okay, you can fix it in this sense, which is wrong, but not that we are taking steps back and making so little promise that someday it will all be free on behalf of some social justice. Once again, in students, we do not make these differences, we do them in transport, we do them in student homes, but we do not do them in nutrition, regardless of social status, they all receive the same subsidy from the State. Why? There they ride with Mercedes, and there their parents are richer, one and the other, for example, they don't have that much. And once again, it's direct money, it's a direct subsidy, and you've told us that we gave it because those students are voters. You're taking their scholarships now. I don't know if you're aware of tomorrow's election. Yeah, look at the new law coming up. Students under the age of 18 won't have a state scholarship anymore, they can't have one. You introduce this and you bring it, and you say that there will be more scholarships and that it will be better for everything. I'll support our amendments. Think about what you're saying on behalf of 6 million or 10 million, which you're going to save and put in primary school, and we're going to throw money out the window with a shovel. These excuses and these debates are completely depressed and do not make any sense. Talk again with the Ministry of Labour, which said to wait until these social laws that are coming are passed, and then we will talk about what someone else has or does not have and what we are taking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u55	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, we are actually witnessing systematic misdirection, systematic deception and, last but not least, systematic lying. I can't land, by no means, that the law has caused, I don't know what bureaucratic and I don't know what kind of brakes and on these tons of footprints. This government and this ministry, and last but not least the other ministries, are systematically working on the systematic elimination of administrative barriers. He also tried to do so in his own way, as far as he could and could. However, if we mention so much about what happened in the past, let me say that some who today claim to be systematically misleading have even proposed food control and the amount of food that would cost and even impose additional costs of at least €80,000, let us leave it. In fact, today, here in this place, I am concerned that most Members and Members of Parliament are referred to only those who have celiac disease and diabetics, but not those who have metabolic and other metabolic problems. In Slovenia we have among students, as among adults, also those who have other food problems and problems, which require diet. But of course, because they are in the program and the project are so much more cited and mentioned. Of course, all the rules that are also allow those who are not so numerous who are not in that group 0.3% to eat diet. Here is also the advantage of such a system when in primary school it is also dealt with through advisory teams, etc., that I do not tire out. I think it is very important to say that in fact the Health Act here is being listened to in some consistent way and that the possibilities are so great. Food was always a stumbling block, a necessity for survival, and, finally, a delight. Because today is the day of museums to mention that at the Ethnographic Museum there is a permanent layout that shows how and how this part of our daily life has progressed. I think that this law also represents a step forward in terms of the possibilities and objectivity given to us in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular because it seems to me that it is breaking the more socially just law that is on the table today. It undermines the regulation of this area, in which the solidarity component is also introduced, and at the same time we receive an integrated system law that is needed to regulate nutrition in primary schools. What was a major problem with the implementation of the previous law, namely, the law adopted by the SDS, is that large schools had to adjust the schedule, it is said, the study was being extended so that they could adapt the distribution of food according to the adopted law. The interpretation of the "hot meal" was left to each individual, i.e. to each school management, some principals even admitted that a number of meals were enriched by some kind of warm drink and defined it as a warm meal. But burek, dog walk, pizza are certainly not a healthy meal, which is also supposed to be the purpose of the previous marriage. There was an infrastructural crisis and more than once, in several surveys it was observed that more students would not want a healthy meal, which they would also pay if it had to not be made as it was under the existing law. What else is the problem? Because of all these anomalies that have occurred, we have confused a lot of food away, and many students have not participated in this warm meal because the food was the same as it was and therefore this area needs to be regulated. What does a new marriage bring? The new law brings one solidarity component among all participants. So those in primary school and those in high school, that's students. And here's the concept that we believe in or understand differently. It's not right for everyone to have a free and free hot meal. It's not right. Someone can afford something to, like, subsidize a meal, but someone can't. And after this law in force, two thirds of all students will have a subsidized meal. The remaining third or two thirds would pay something extra because they would be entitled to an additional subsidy and one third of the students would have a free diet. This is great progress and money will not be wasted on this account in the budget, it is said that someone would like to squander at the expense of the students, but that money will be redeployed to primary schools where such a subsidised meal is absolutely necessary. Mr Bezjak asked the Minister for Education how we will deal with the fact that some parents really cannot pay the bills for meals in primary schools. What to do with children who don't want to share food with them. This is regulated by this law. There was also a lot of talk about separating the students from the poorer and richer ones. That doesn't even hold. What is happening today is that those who are already able in many segments of society to receive many benefits also receive them in this area. It is right for those who really need this to be assured. Let's share the possibility of subsidised nutrition in primary schools, secondary schools and, after all, students. Because it is not true that students have a free meal, they also subsidize students in the purchase of vouchers, because we had a key objective in this - to ensure healthy diet, so we did not have so much problem with who can afford it and who can not. It's a healthy diet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see one arm, two arms, several hands. Check-in is on. Something's wrong. I'm asking you again. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you very much, again. I will, of course, support the amendment, which restores 100% compensation for the student diet. However, I would like to tell some of my fellow Members - today in our field - that they have already written in the newspaper that they are disappointed at the work of fellow Members. That's what the students wrote. After this debate, I believe that students will write something like that, or because it doesn't matter what they write, it's important how this works in advance. But I'm afraid some people don't even take it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u61	Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment because I believe that there is an open space for great demagogism throughout the debate. And I wonder why, in the time of the previous government, they also did not provide food subsidies to primary schools. Today I wondered again how much we pay the parents of primary school children, how much we pay per month. And this amount is 80 Euros 80 Euros paid for a child's food in primary school. But that obviously didn't bother the previous government. But they went to an offer that's understandable and I understand students today and I understand students. Once you have something guaranteed, it is difficult to take a reinstatement, even though this withdrawal is justified by fairness in the distribution of funds. But there's no means. And what the opposition has been exposed to today has also pointed out several times: "Tell the government to tell the public that the possibilities are unfortunately limited." And within these options, things have to be distributed so that besides subsidised food to students - let's not forget that no one takes these subsidies, but they just redistribute themselves so that those who belong to families who can pay; I have not once protested because of the amount I receive every month, that's 80 euros, for my child in primary school, I realize that it would be shameful for me to come forward and protest for that amount. Now we see that most students will receive subsidised food, that one part will still be with 100% subsidies, and the other part will pay around €16 per month. Look at 16 euros, not 80 euros a month. So, with what conscience can we tell the parents of children in primary schools. Don't you think it's reasonable to suspect that there was a manoeuvre - I repeat, I understand students when they demand that something is not taken in these times. They're defending what they've achieved. It is always difficult and politically difficult to take away part of the right achieved. But let's be honest, but in this situation, we're going to leave all the families that have primary school children at risk. No, so it's only right that this law actually takes care of that part of the population. And unfortunately, it's an impression that you postponed it at the end of your term, just before the elections, that there was a calculation here, as this population quickly approaches electoral rights and maybe we'll get it. This impression is justified. But I hope that we will quickly come and get into such a social situation when an absolute subsidy or food subsidy is possible for the entire student, student and primary population. It's impossible in these situations. The state and government must approach a fairer, fairer and more just proportion of the Slovenian population, the part of which, of course, has children in primary school and pays in full today, which is without subsidies for this food. In doing so, however, it is important to make sure that this food is useful to keep it healthy. We have seen how much, say, if there is little differentiation between poorer, richer layers, if we do not call for their responsibility and responsible treatment of food, then we will also be witnesses of images where students who do not need subsidies do not actually have any relation to that food, but they may go out and sometimes even allow food for a higher assessment. But that doesn't apply to most students. Most students probably understand that responsibility. They know what it means. Parents know what it means to pay for monthly school meals and there is no fear of reducing or reducing the rights of those in need. Those who need subsidies. So once again, I also call on the student population, the student population, to think more about this problem in solidarity. I support them when they demand that subsidies be provided at the expense of other financial and budgetary items which are less necessary. And on this, of course, this is a broader framework of debate, and I ask myself several times, in fact, what we are spending so much money on irrelevant matters, and of course we are forced to squander. But if the situation is such, let each one assume his or her responsibility and, above all, be in solidarity with the vast majority of families who do not have these subsidies today. That is why it is right to ensure this, I believe that the opposition has also acknowledged that the law is good, because it essentially completes what the previous Government did not allow, even if it had better accounts and better numbers in the cash register and did not do so. Today, we are forced to debate within a framework where demagogy is also inevitable. That's why I'm not going to be defining myself here as a demagogue or just like one part of the population. I am aware of the demands and I think that the requirements of Slovenian students are also understandable, but as Members we must make a responsible decision and also within the real potential of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u63	Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will definitely support the marriage. It represents a solution that is only fair and fair in a given situation. This is a problem in financing student, school and student nutrition. And it's not about saving, although someone could continue to readjust the state, but it's about redistributing funds in a way that everyone who needs and who's entitled to school food subsidies will get it. The existing law, which we are amending and supplementing, was adopted in a situation of relative well-being, when the country did not have to think about where to take it from and, of course, before the elections at a time when no one could object to getting something for free was adopted. And that's what needs to be taken into account. Today the situation is different and therefore different solutions are needed. Within the social states that we want to preserve, however, it is fair for me that the rich get nothing for free or only what belongs to them under the legislation of the general system of spending tax money, but in areas that concern, for example, school food, children's allowances, payment of kindergartens and so on, the rich contribute their share because they can do so. Therefore, they contribute their share so that the poor can receive within the framework of solidarity this, without which they would be significantly deprived, within life and position in our society. As a result, it is not possible to accept the demand for 100% child nutrition or school meals by the State at a time when the state has no place to take them. It's demagogy. It's not very nice to see students on the street either. Because it's not true that two-thirds of students are going to be hungry if they don't do the student work to the extent they're doing today. I'm saying this because it's also operating on the untruth that the state is putting an end to student work. No, the state changes it. It changes the form of student work, it reduces it slightly to the extent that students study more and that they don't drag on for seven years. Today, for example, Šuštaršič writes in the newspaper that every third student will be struck by a change in his student’s allowance. What about those students who have studied for seven or ten years who don't hit the country in the pocket? You're reducing your working hours yourself. At the same time, they scream that they will not work more than 60 years, until 30 years through a student without a working age, after 60 years nothing more. Where are we gonna pay our pensions? It's just, by the way. However, the law currently under discussion is one that will ensure that all who are entitled to a food subsidy during schooling are able to contribute to those who have and are so materially provided, thus ensuring solidarity, the social state and everyone will have the opportunity to have a healthy and adequate diet. In the context of the economic and financial crisis, however, different solutions are not fair and I will not support this amendment, but I will support the law and the coalition amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u65	Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I will support our amendments to the SDS, but I will not support the coalition. I've talked about this before, and I'd like to add something else. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Labour has also proposed to wait for this law because the new social legislation has not yet been adopted and the system of subsidisation is not supposed to be the most fair due to unregulated records. Indeed, social support is now being provided from various sources and it is difficult to gather all resources. I think the government here is proposing something good to get it on a common denominator with the e-social project. And as long as these records are not regulated, this system, which requires and needs the support of the administration, where data on the social power of families will have to be collected until it works, would be as problematic as any border setting, to which social assistance extends, from which it is no longer. So this is also one of the reasons why this project is probably not good. Secondly, the project is not good if it introduces, say, a subsidised diet to the extent that the Government has conceived or, we will say, to the fullest extent, it takes away, in the field of secondary school nutrition. That's not right. However, if there are difficult times, for small funds, it is €6.7 million and we could have a fully subsidised diet in high school and primary school. If I compare it to the fact that the state finds the money that the minister pays her friend to buy the building. This diet would cost, 100%, €6 million for secondary schools and primary schools, €7 million, but that building will stand and the state will pay €32 million. I'm sorry, no one can convince me that the state doesn't have where to take it from, obviously it has to take it, only one has the advantage, but the other one doesn't. And I would also like to respond to some inaccuracies. You have repeatedly mentioned that this law was passed by the previous government at the end of the term of office. Yes, I'm asking you very nicely what the government should do only the first year of its term, and the last year should not be working. I think these logics are stuck in Greece, where workers have been doing nothing for 10 years before retirement, so they could put in those stimuli if they come to work at all. And we, our government, uncritically accepts the debt or contribution of almost EUR 400 million to Greek solidarity. Solidarity is fine, but it has its limits. Such a system as it is in Greece, that in the end nothing is done and you are also reading to the previous government that it finally accepted that it was doing something, I don't know how you imagine it. According to your logic - if education lasts 8 years, probably then students should do nothing in the 8th or 9th grade by this logic. This is said to be no argument that the Government has adopted something in the last year of its mandate. Yeah, well, you have to work as long as you're in power as long as you're on the job for the rest of your life. And don't say such nonsense. Nor does this suggest that in the previous mandate, the money was sufficient and there was no need to think about where the money would be taken from. That's not true. Money has to be squandered when you have it, then you have to save. When you don't have money, you can't save anyway and you can't save anything. And even in the previous term, there was no money as much as anyone would have wanted. But it is thanks to the previous government that this government can be indebted because the former has not been in charge and we have been the other least indebted country in the European Union. Now, for once, we have become the ones who are very troublesome about borrowing. So, that's true, and unfortunately, we'll probably have to figure out when it's gonna crack and you'll sober up, too, how much this country's already in debt. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'd rather not have the right data, but, unfortunately, I do. As a matter of fact, as I said before, it is more of a goodwill than it is if this matter costs EUR 6 million and would actually have a 100% subsidised diet covered in primary and secondary schools, which is a real nuisance compared to the 32 million that the Minister gives to her colleague. I've said this once before, and it's probably gonna have to be repeated again. I support some of the solutions that are in this law. They are good, they cannot be opposed, especially when it comes to rational use of food, so that food does not throw away. Food is not cheap, but, at times, we were taught that food should be respected in one way or another. That's positive. However, there will be a list of those who are supposed to be more wealthy, who will be able to have a 100% subsidised diet, those who only partially, those who do nothing, which I do not think is good. This will only lead to division in high school among students. That's certainly not good. And that is why I support these amendments, the SDS amendments, and I will not support the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u67	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A kind greeting and a compliment to the minister, who for this important law, which was well prepared at the Ministry, really took the time for the whole discussion, listens carefully, and I am sure that it will not be long before we find out in the National Assembly and talk about that all students and all primary schoolchildren have free food. This has been said many times, but unfortunately those who want constant politicization, constant strife, do not want to hear it. I am sad that the policy before the full balcony disputes political prestige on this issue, shares the obvious who it is earlier, who it is later. I'm not going to warm up the story of Patria, various arms deals and affairs, there went money into nothing for 100 years of elementary school and student nutrition on. Now to marriage and salvation. All societies are in serious times on trial. At that time, human conscience and solidarity are also tested. It would be right to realize that whoever has more does not take what is possible for free or for free, but is solidarity that he does not take from that cup if he is not hungry, so that for those who have needs, he remains more. And that's what this is all about. I'm lucky that I've had my whole life's work I've loved and never done, and I've never had any subsidies, no documents, and all that sort of stuff. And I was proud of it because I lived in the belief that it would leave it for the others more. And that's how we should be thinking today. We are talking about the monthly diet and the amounts moving between 0.8 and 16 euros. Dear Members and Members! Ask your kids, ask your relatives how much a month your cell phone costs. Some people spend several times as much on their cell phone as they do on all school meals. Let us be concerned and hurt by the differences. With what kind of cars, those who pass early exams may be older in high school so much more because a certain yearbook has been repeated, with what kind of cars some are brought to school, that is no bother to anyone. Nobody minds that some shoes have for 20 euros others for 200. These are the things that politics must think about why we have spread out this society in this way. The school diet, which brings good solutions, is certainly not an example of breaking a political copy. Especially since we have clear assurances from the Ministry that our goal is free nutrition for all in primary schools and also in secondary schools. Of course, I am glad that many of those who do not support the law have come to the conclusion that marriage in the vast majority of areas brings good solutions. For God's sake, why would they cut down an entire forest in a good forest because of a tree we don't all like? Responsible and serious policies do not do this. I am sure that if we did a survey between primary school students and high school students that they are ready, those who have more and who can pay a couple more euros a month, so that those who do not have this happiness and who are going harder - we expect that they will get better in the future - have more. If this survey were to be done, not in politics, but between our children, who are socially responsible and sensitive to these differences in the vast majority, then they would certainly support this law and support these solutions. And that's what this is all about. If ever, when it is difficult, human solidarity is known to man. If you look at the statistics, how many children are actually going to pay the full price, how much are they going to pay, it's reasonable, it's fair, and it's clear to those who don't have a political interest first. I further welcome the solutions drawn up by the Ministry in the direction of awareness in the area of healthy nutrition, in order to respect the diversity in this area, that people who have different desires and needs are one of the health aspects and the other from the point of view of a personal decision to listen to it, to respect it and to oppose it. And, above all, that we are aware that an empty bag never stands up and that, of course, we have devoted a lot of attention to this issue and to this law, a lot of time. I am confident that today we will accept it by rejecting some amendments, which I do not think are going in the right direction and that we will have this area firmly settled for this year. But over the next few years, I want all of us to have such a good standard that we can say that we have free school and primary school meals and that we will then be able to take steps, as some other societies do in public transport and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u69	Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the adjournment of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Youth Worlds Act, under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Lukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for your word. Messengers and Members! The Youth Councils Act is primarily intended to adapt to the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, which is the next point of treatment. The law brings solutions to coordination with the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector. It proposes or introduces certain solutions that ensure better protection of public interest and provide legal certainty. The Youth Council has been granted the status of a legal person of private law, sui generis. The principle was introduced to apply the analogous Social Act in relation to the operation of youth councils, in line with the Law on Offences. In fact, the law is not required in this sense, nor has it caused major conflicts in the coordination process, so I would ask you to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Director, Members and Members of Parliament. At its 17th session, on 29 April 2010, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Youth Councils Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. The law has been studied by the Legal and Legal Service. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also gave its opinion and supported the proposal for a law. It found that the novelty was in line with the content of the new Systemic Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector and agreed that national youth organisations should be identified and changes introduced to allow for greater participation of young people in decision-making. The opinion was presented orally at the Committee by Drago Jura. The Commission for the National Communities has prepared a report on the draft law and supported it. It considered that, in terms of the realization of the specific rights of indigenous national communities and in terms of the preservation of national identity, it was extremely important to activate the forms of organisation of the youth population, since the latter contributed greatly to the vital development of the national community. The Committee also had on its mind the opinion of the Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community, the position of the Community of Slovenia, the letter of Logatec Municipality and the opinion of the Municipality of Velenje and the Municipality of Novo mesto. The amendment was tabled by the four coalition groups to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5 and 7. The SDS Group shall, however, be bound by Article 1. The Committee held a debate and a vote on individual articles and amendments tabled. Dr Igor Lukšič, Minister, gave an introductory explanation for the bill, said that the adoption of the proposed novel will enable the youth sector to participate actively in the drafting of legislation in the future and that the contents of the novel will be aligned with the content of the draft law on public interest in the youth sector. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made to Articles 2 and 4 had been taken into account in the amendments of the Coalition. In general, it noted the right to freedom of association in youth councils. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7, but did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles and supported the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u74	Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Opinions are widely shared on amendments to the law in the public interest. Surely it is possible to insist on involving young people more actively in changes in our society. Young people must be considered as human resources potential and a source of development in both national and European policies. In the light of Slovenia's strategic challenges and good practices, the field of youth work is identified as one of the key factors in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy reform programme. The integration of young people into the working environment is identified as one of the priorities in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy reform programme. In the development of the youth sector, the growth of youth organisations, youth centres that have established their network and formalised their structure from 1995 to this day is further encouraged by the development of infrastructure for young people. In addition, enhanced cooperation within the EU has provided for better policies for young people with programmes within the EU. We agree that young people need to be able to cooperate and coordinate in the areas concerned, as well as to take more account of youth in other policies. Activities aimed at achieving this objective include, in particular, participation, voluntary work, information, awareness-raising and awareness-raising among young people's authorities. In addition, there are other projects, such as youth work, youth club, street work, citizenship, inclusion and solidarity among young people. On the other hand, it is afraid that excessive administration and formalism will overshadow the initiative of young people and their youthful drive. The proposal states that with the adoption of the proposed novelty, the youth sector will be able to actively participate in the drafting of legislation in the future and that the content of the amendment is also aligned with the content of the draft law on public interest in the youth sector. On the other hand, for example, we have the opinion of one of the municipalities of Logatec, which points out that change will make it difficult and hinder the free integration of young people, because they believe that the proposed changes mean the drying up of the activities of youth councils that have barely come to life. The transformation into society brings additional obstacles and constraints. It is unclear whether the status in the public interest can be acquired by any organisation registered as a youth council. This would remind us that there can be many in each congregation. This also devalues the very importance of status in the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Youth Councils Act. The amendment of this law is conditioned primarily by the need to comply with the content of the newly created bill, which we support in the DeSUS Group, and thus by supporting the amendment of the Youth Councils Act. In addition to these harmonisation changes, we also agree in our parliamentary group to complement the content of the law in the work relating to the registration of youth councils, their financial and material business and the supervision of the implementation of the law, which has proved to be inconsistent and very flawed so far. We have estimated that changes and additions will contribute to the proper protection of public interest and legal certainty. There will also be positive improvements in the organised functioning of youth councils and local youth councils and youth organisations, which will undoubtedly contribute to the expansion of youth participation in decision-making. As has been said, we support and vote in favour of the bill and also in favour of the amendment of the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The draft law in question is indeed a reason for bringing content into line with the content of the Proposal for a Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, which we will consider and adopt further and which will fully regulate this area of the youth sector. It is said that this law governs only part of the above-mentioned roof law, namely the status, legal status of youth councils, the conditions for the integration of youth organisations into youth councils and their functioning. The objectives of the proposed law are also to terminologyly align content with the new umbrella law on public interest in the youth sector. In fact, there are some shortcomings in the existing law in the provisions governing the registration, supervision and so on of youth councils in financial and material transactions. The harmonisation of both laws and the definition and transparency of the functioning of youth councils will ensure, to some extent, adequate public interest and legal certainty. In previous discussions and discussions, however, there were some controversial issues regarding the comparability of youth councils with societies or associations of societies and that you should also apply the Social Act meaningfully to youth councils. This is primarily the case with financial and material management solutions, as accounting standards should therefore also apply to youth councils. Another time. In this regard, appropriate grounds will also be provided for the powers and conduct of the registration procedure of youth councils. This will also ensure the uniformity of the procedures and competences of such legally comparable bodies. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we consider that there is a necessary and well-founded provision concerning the authorities responsible for the supervision of the functioning of youth councils, i.e. bodies responsible for the supervision of societies in accordance with the Social Act. In short, we believe that the changes in the law in question could achieve the desired objectives of youth policy at national and also at local level. Therefore, better ensure that young people can be involved in the process and participate in political, economic and social life at all. On the basis of the above, we will support the Proposal for a Youth Councils Act in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the amendments and the amendment of the Youth Councils Act is to harmonise the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, which is a fundamental youth law and is also under consideration in the National Assembly today. Amendments to the law refer to the conditions for the membership of the youth organisation in the Youth Council of Slovenia and in youth councils at local level, and also resolve some inconsistencies regarding the registration and financial functioning of youth councils and their supervision. The Youth Council of Slovenia and the youth councils at local level are traditional mechanisms for involving young people in decision-making processes, which is extremely important if we want to attract as many young people as possible into social life, where they will take responsibility for different projects. It is therefore necessary to extend the range of young people participating in decision-making processes across the youth council borders to youth organisations and to young people who are not members of any organisation. A significant problem is the functioning of youth councils at local level, because unfortunately they are not in all environments, especially in smaller ones. For example, in 2009 only 46 local youth councils were registered in the register of local youth councils, and if we think that we have as many as 210 municipalities in Slovenia, this is a problem in the field of youth organisation, because it is a local environment that knows the specific situation and needs of its young population that should play a greater role in creating and providing material and spatial conditions than ever before. In the LDS, we hope that the laws before us will also help to do so. Until now, there have been inadequacies about the conditions of financial and material activity in the youth world. Since these are entities that are comparable to societies, it makes sense to propose that youth councils, i.e. youth councils, are subject to the same accounting standards as societies or associations of societies. In the LDS, we support the solution to allow regulation on the registration of youth councils by amending the law. So far, there has been a duality in this area, a part of it has been carried out under the Social Act, and part of its competence has been exercised by administrative units. In short, all company registrations were to be transferred from administrative units to Ipes. The amendment of this law and the reference to the Social Act will also lead to a solution for youth councils, and the same supervisory authorities over youth councils as over societies will also be established in the amendments to the law. In the LDS, we hope that all solutions will contribute to the good or better functioning of youth worlds at the local level, as well as the national youth world, and in particular that youth councils will be established in all local environments in Slovenia. At the LDS Club, we support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u82	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! Today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia we adopt a package of two laws, which are primarily intended for about 400,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or about 20% of the total population. In past discussions, we have spent a lot of time focusing on different social groups, but only a few statistics predict such a concern about the future as it is for young people. The proportion of young people in the population is expected to fall from 20 to 14% in the coming 17 years, almost a third. It is therefore so much more important that we provide young people with opportunities for active participation in democratic institutions and civil society, of course, where they can clearly and, above all, effectively represent their interests. With the proposed package of both laws, we will add another pebble to the mosaic of patient and reasoned debates, where the height of voice and demonstration of the power of the wealthier and better organised will not be the only one leading in making important decisions. The new law, which is the first on the agenda, brings only minor corrections needed to comply with the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector. The most important changes are the abolition of the lower age limit for membership in the youth council of the local community. This has been the case for 15 years, which has prevented the participation of organisations with a larger number of younger members. The other changes are only minor corrections that will not affect the emancipated state of operation of youth councils. In the course of the legislative process so far, we have given special attention to the positions of the Slovenian Youth Council and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia in the Group of Social Democrats. They proposed a provision which would allow only one media council to be established in one local community. This would essentially follow the uniform representation of young people at local level, and the municipalities would have only one interlocutor in the process of designing and implementing policies that concern young people in particular. The intention of the proposal was unanimously supported by the presence of the parent working body at the meeting, but unfortunately solutions that would be in line with the legal order in force despite efforts could not be found. For legal services have warned that this could result in a conflict with Article 42 of the Constitution, which speaks of freedom of association. Nevertheless, we believe that the interest of young people in the local community is a uniform representation of their positions, and they will also make it easier by uniform representation to exercise the rights arising from both laws. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Councils Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. In the SDS Group we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Youth Councils Act. While we have made some minor amendments to the Committee's meeting, we have proposed some amendments that we have not repeated in this consideration, but we believe that these are important changes affecting youth policies, youth structures, and we think it is good that some things are more structured, so, as we say, we support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Tadej Slapnik also, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The preamble to the revised European Charter on the Integration of Youth in Local and Regional Life says that the key to building a more democratic, inclusive and successful society is the public participation of young people in local and regional decisions and activities. Participation in the democratic life of the local community is more than just the participation of young people in elections. We need to create an environment for open dialogue between young, local and regional authorities, and allow young people and their representatives to be equal players in policies relating to them. These structures must be representative and permanent and must address all matters of interest to young people. The amendment of the Youth Councils Act aligns the sectoral law with the content of the proposal of the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, complementing the provisions which have proved to be flawed or inconsistent and also increases the control of the functioning of youth councils. In preparing the umbrella law on youth policy regulation, the Ministry took into account the position of the Slovenian Youth Council in order not to include the provisions of the Youth Councils Act in the bill, but to correct and harmonise it in the context of the needs of the new umbrella law. After 10 years of adoption of the Youth Councils Act, the National Assembly therefore has an opportunity to assess its effects. In the Group of Members, it is indeed estimated that the law did not meet the expectations of the establishment and functioning of the local Youth Councils. It is worrying that only 49 local youth councils have been set up in Slovenia in 10 years since the adoption of the law, and only 15 of them received funds from the Slovenian Youth Office in 2009 at the invitation to co-finance the operation. The local youth councils are not established in a quarter of Slovene municipalities, but in fact they operate in less than 10% of municipalities. In the Group of Members, we do not really agree that the reason for this is merely to assume that in smaller local communities the existing regime represents an over-administrative obstacle to establishment. The establishment of a local youth council is a condition of at least three for the establishment of interested youth organisations in the local community, which can theoretically constitute a barrier in individual really small municipalities, but in the vast majority this is not the case. The successful Youth Council in some smaller local communities, however, proves that the registration process of the local youth council is administratively no more demanding than the registration of society. So where are the reasons why youth organisations do not link and cooperate at local level? It is certainly important that no one in the local community encourages them to do so except for the symbolic means allocated by the Slovenian Youth Office for the annual functioning of the local youth councils, which on average does not exceed €800 per year. Local communities with rare exceptions do not provide funds for the operation of youth councils. It is clearly wrong, however, to assume that in the local youth council, the legislator will have an interest in fighting for the local budgetary resources of a competitive youth organisation. For local community calls for the financing of local youth organisations, active membership in the local youth council does not bring additional points to youth organisations, except that membership in the local youth council is a condition for co-financing from local budgets. There were also, unfortunately, many of them among the established youth councils who had frozen their operations because of internal differences, and many had fallen apart. The hope therefore raises the information that the competent ministry provides funds from the European Social Fund for the operation of the network to encourage local youth structures. In the Parliamentary Group, we really expect that, in addition to setting up new youth councils, it will also help to find unanswered answers and the reasons for the lack of participation of young people at local level. The proposed amendment of the Youth Councils Act will indeed be supported in the Group of Members, but we point out that the fundamental causes of the lack of development and functioning of local youth councils remain and that all of them cannot be eliminated only by the adoption of legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today, in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on public interest in the youth sector: under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mr Education and Sport Minister Dr Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u88	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Members and Members of Parliament. The Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector is already a good time. We have succeeded, but above all, in the youth council, that it has drawn up a law that, in our opinion, enjoys a high degree of consensus. This is a definition of the youth sector. This law legislates some other definitions that are important for the functioning of the youth field. It is a matter of defining public interest in this youth field. The law identifies the institutions in the public interest in the field of youth action, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia defines youth as the central body coordinating the work in the youth sector. It determines the consultative body, this is the Youth Council. He's bringing in state awards from this area. It defines youth centres as the creation of sui generis. In relation to the law that has just been examined, it also lays down the conditions and procedures for obtaining the status of action in the public interest. It introduces a strategic document of the National Youth Programme. And all the content has been transferred to this national programme. Let me inform this High Council that the law at the Youth Office is in preparation, pardon, a national programme in preparation and is expected to be adopted in early 2011. The Act of Action defines ways and procedures for co-financing the youth sector and identifies relations between the country and local communities. The law has received high support and consensus from all youth organisations in previous cases. I propose to the National Assembly, to you, honourable Members and Members, that you uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. Please, ma'am. Majdo Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister and Mr Director of the Youth Office. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposed law at its 17th session, on 29 April 2010. The Legislative and Legal Service has commented on the 10 articles. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also gave its opinion and supported the law. It considered that the adoption of the law would allow for a better development of the youth sector, as there are no appropriate mechanisms at state level to develop and implement youth policy so far. It also supported the National Youth Programme. He presented the report orally to Drago Jura. The Commission for the National Communities, like the previous law, has examined the Commission as an interested working body. In its report, it supported and welcomed the proposal by the proposer to grant national youth organisations the status of indigenous national minorities as national youth organisations. The Committee also received opinions from the Municipality of Ljubljana and the municipalities of Novo mesto and Velenje, the opinion of the Municipality of Radovljica, the Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community and the position of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Amendments were tabled, namely the four coalition groups to the 10th Article, the SDS Group to the 5th Article and the Commission to the National Community in two Articles. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport held a debate and a vote on individual articles and amendments. Dr Igor Luksic initially said that the law defines the field of the youth sector, sets public interest in the youth sector and exposes its institutions and entities. The law also establishes a binding strategic document of the National Youth Programme, which contains strategic objectives and measures for their implementation and is the basis for co-financing programmes in the youth sector. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of the comments made had been taken into account in the amendments of the coalition, while others had been clarified. In the debate on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members focused on the provisions of Articles 8 and 14 and discussed in particular the governance of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth and the functioning of youth councils in the public interest. Some members of the committee felt that the Council of the Government for Youth was the expert and advisory body of the Government and that it was therefore pointless to be led by a representative of the Government. They felt that the Council should be led by a representative of non-governmental organisations because it would better perform its function, while others felt that the Government had a greater responsibility when leading young people and that they are similar solutions to the worlds in other laws. The representative of the Government explained that the Government is interested in consulting on its policy, but not only by giving in to the pressure of young people to influence it. However, there is room enough for any other civil society organisation of the youth sector, where they can otherwise influence government policy. In the discussion below, there was also a lot of talk on who could obtain status in the public interest or whether it should be any organisation and the question of whether the right to freedom of association referred to in Article 42(2) of the Constitution was sufficiently taken into account. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted ten amendments to Article 6 of the coalition's parliamentary group and to the Commission for National Communities. However, it did not accept the amendments tabled by the SDS Group on three articles and the Commission on National Communities to Article 6 and therefore the three amendments of the SDS Group and the amendment of the Commission on National Communities have become irrelevant. A further draft law has been prepared, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and this text of the amended proposal is before you and we propose that you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will speak on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u92	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector. Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners agree with the bill and, of course, we will fully support it because we believe that the field of youth policy is a key element in the chain of all social processes of each country. It is right that this generation has the opportunity of intergenerational cooperation in the creation of society and thus a shared responsibility for the future. We also note that young people in general are relatively well organised and represented, as well as very active in their programmes and activities at national and local level, but are lacking or unsatisfactory in the regulation of the youth sector. Appropriate mechanisms at national level are a prerequisite for the development and implementation of youth policy. According to our assessment, this proposal will make it possible to improve the development of the youth sector, as it provides good regulatory frameworks for the implementation of actions by all government departments and programme integration within the framework of the national programme, as well as a formal basis for the functioning of the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for youth, which is defined by law as the fundamental body of dialogue between the government and the non-governmental sphere in the field of youth policy. The law provides for the mandatory establishment of the National Youth Programme as a strategic document. On the basis of a comprehensive review into the situation of young people and in the public interest, it will define strategic objectives across the various sectors of youth policy and, as such, will serve as a basis for identifying the main problems and, as a result, for the preparation of further necessary measures while at the same time providing a basis for achieving the objectives set. The law defines the basic concepts relating to the youth sector; it defines the definitions of concepts and areas of the youth sector, defines the public interest, the way it is implemented and co-financed, defines the institutions and bodies of public interest and the way in which interests are coordinated. It is certainly important that this integration and participation of young people at the local level mean a key contribution to the wider national level, so we welcome the greater role of autonomy and initiative at local level. The law also contains other important principles that will, in an indicative sense, be of great assistance in the implementation of this umbrella law and of course of all other rules, including the envisaged national programme. We believe that this way will ensure the effective realization of public interest in the youth sector. The bill brings a lot of good things that will certainly help to improve the development of youth organisation in the country and that is why Members of the DeSUS Group will fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, hello to everyone. Due to the importance that the State must give to the youth sector, the LDS Group welcomes the law on public interest in the youth sector. Young people are part of the population that society must pay particular attention to, as the development of the young generation also depends on the long-term development of our society. In the LDS, we believe that key societal problems can only be resolved in the long term through dialogue with the young generation, improving the situation of young people and creating opportunities for young people to take advantage of their opportunities and abilities. In the LDS we advocate the implementation of a policy that will enable the creation of a professional, educated, motivated and responsible young generation, which will be the long-term foundation for the social development of Slovenia. In the LDS, we support the objectives of the law, which defines the whole youth sector, sets public interest in it and sets out how the public interest in the youth sector can be achieved. The field of youth action has not been fully covered in Slovenia so far; only the field of youth councils and student communities has been regulated. The organisation of young people is ongoing with us and in Europe and therefore needs new legislative solutions. The main contractor and contractor in the field of the country-level youth sector is the Youth Office of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the rest of the sector, ministries only occasionally engage in individual projects. We believe that the bill before us is a step in the right direction. In the LDS, we expect a lot from a national youth programme that will emerge under the law. This document will set strategic priorities and measures for their achievement, which will be the basis for co-financing the youth sector programmes. Since the programme will be adopted for 9 years, it will be a long-term document, as such a document plans to operate in the youth sector over the long term. In doing so, we draw attention to its openness to change and complementarity, as in the case of youth policy, it is a segment of society that is changing most rapidly and may not be able to follow all developments. The draft law makes it particularly important to define the public interest in the field of youth and its means of enforcement, which is discussed in Article 5, which states that public interest in the youth sector is achieved through the provision of normative and other conditions for the development of youth work and the integration of youth content into strategies, policies and measures affecting young people and secondly, financial support for youth programmes and programmes, including support for youth infrastructure. The law defines public interest in the youth sector, which is a state and a self-government local community, which means that the local community must also provide conditions for the functioning of youth organisations in terms of organisational and spatial conditions and also financial resources. Local communities are also expected to perceive the needs of young people in their environments, as the needs of young people vary in different settings. The development of youth policy is based on many domestic and foreign documents, including the recommendations of the Council of Europe since 1991, and on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the White Paper of the European Commission entitled New Incentive for European Youth in 2001, which established a framework for cooperation in the field of youth, followed the 2004 Rotterdam Declaration, recommendations on the proposals of the European Commission in the new Youth Programme for the 2007 and 2013 Action. The core home document so far was adopted in 2005 by the Youth Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of youth policy until 2010, which identified key areas of youth policy. However, this was not enough to achieve key and long-term objectives in the youth sector. With the bill we are adopting today, we are laying the groundwork for the adoption of a national youth programme to connect all sectors and stakeholders in the youth sector. At the LDS Club, we really hope that the law will allow for a more coordinated functioning of all organisations in the youth sector, youth organisations, youth organisations, individuals, youth worlds, youth clubs both at the state and local levels. We therefore support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the national communities will be presented by Mr Lazslo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Director, colleague and distinguished colleagues! Let me stress that we welcome and support the proposal for a law on public interest in the youth sector, because this defines the youth sector and defines public interest in this area and how to achieve a limited interest. In short, the law governs an area that has not yet been fully defined. National communities were also involved in the adoption phase, since, in terms of the exercise of so-called national rights, the participation of their members in youth policy was extremely important. We are pleased in the Group that we have found a common language in the adoption and coordination of the amendments and have also been able to upgrade the original text of the bill from the point of view of indigenous national communities. It is important that we have been united in realizing that indigenous self-government national communities have also been included among the public interest holders in the youth sector in addition to the state and the self-government local communities in the national mixed area. Such a solution is also fully justified from the point of view of the constitutional status of the organisations of the national communities. An important substantive shift is also achieved in the area of recognition of the status of a national youth organisation which, in the case of members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and of the Roma community, takes account of their quantitative and substantive specificity. For these reasons, the bill will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. We support the proposal for a law on public interest in the youth sector in the Group of Social Democrats. With the proposed law, after two decades in the Slovenian legal order, we finally define the youth sector and define the public interest in it, which is of course a great thanks to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth and, of course, the Ministry of Education and Sport. The concept of law, which represents a certain shift from an excessively patronizing policy relationship to youth, is mainly based on the understanding of young people as equal, equal and active citizens who are able to take on the most responsible roles in society. As you may recall, we have already recognised this role for them once in this mandate, and we have returned the representatives of the students back to the holy schools at the time of the ZOFI change. The text of the law, which is before us, goes even further this time. In the introductory provisions, the draft law defines the basic concepts, i.e. everything that is going on in the youth field, lists the areas covered by the youth sector, defines the public interest in it and defines the state and local communities as agents of public interest. It should be emphasized at this point that the proposal provides a legal basis for creating a stimulating environment in the local community, which can become one of the key factors for achieving a higher level of participation and youth representation. The local community will be able to implement youth policy by adopting a local youth track and setting up various working bodies for youth issues in line with its needs and options. We believe that the municipalities will take advantage of the opportunities that are hidden in every local environment in young people, and that it will be easier and faster to resolve some of the current issues. The involvement of young people at local level will also be supported by youth centres, which are specifically defined in the draft law. The country has been paying special attention to the youth centres over the past period and, of course, has given them an important programme role in addition to having access to infrastructure conditions. It is crucial that we include young people in decisions that concern young people in particular. In order to pursue the objectives of active citizenship at national level, it is also necessary to create an appropriate institutional basis, some channels through which young people can fully develop their potentials, so they cooperate and decide. Therefore, the proposer defines in the following law the tasks of the administrative authority responsible for youth and at the normative level the Government Council for Youth. So far, we have had a government council on student issues, and the Council of the Government for Youth is also established in this mandate, which is very important, so that young people working in the youth field can participate actively in decisions that concern them. The establishment of a government council for youth is such a clear signal that the government recognises young people as competent interlocutors in the process of designing and implementing youth policies. The fact that this will not be just another body is also evident from the fact that it will be led by a minister or minister who will have an important part of the responsibility to implement what will, of course, be agreed upon in such a world. Finally, with the Youth Council, all actors in the youth sector are acquired by a competent government interlocutor. Social Democrats are also pleased to note that the proposed law provides a legal basis for a strategic and inter-ministerial national youth programme, which we have already proposed in an alternative government programme. We have been waiting for such a programme for many years, many countries have adopted and implemented youth policies on the basis of it, and in particular coordinate the ministries responsible for the implementation of youth policies and, of course, examine them, and finally identify what the achievements are. The National Youth Programme does not simply bring the basic programming document or just one of the documents we need, but it also ensures that young people remain on the agenda of the National Assembly for the future. Thus, the expected document was difficult to deal with within 18 months, the Minister announced earlier, and was accepted in the National Assembly and then evaluated every three years for its implementation. Like some of the strategic documents from the youth field at European Union level, the National Youth Programme will be in place for a period of nine years, ensuring some consistency of policies that will be adopted in the future. The social democrats will be supported by the law we've been waiting for for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The need for regulatory regulation has led to the proposal of the above-mentioned law, as well as the law on complementary youth councils, and we have already addressed it today. These laws would formalize the appropriate mechanisms for the development of the young population of our society. In this way, let me mention that there is no uniform concept of regulation in Europe, but that each country is solving the problem in its own way, in view of the specific situation, and that there is a strong awareness that much attention needs to be paid to the area. Therefore, various European Union bodies have adopted documents in this area. The Council of EU Ministers adopted a resolution. In addition, during the Slovenian Presidency, the Council of the European Union adopted a resolution on the participation of young people with fewer opportunities. Thus, awareness of the potential of young people has also found its place in the European orientation. However, we are all aware that this segment of society is also an important factor in the implementation of the reform programme of the Lisbon Strategy. This is also why a number of programmes have been set up at European Union level, covering the work of young people. All these programmes are based on the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the United Nations Convention. It should be mentioned that the European Commission has issued a White Paper entitled New Incentive for European Youth of 2001. The main emphasis of the document is, in particular, participation, voluntary work, information and, in particular, a better understanding of youth-related matters by the authorities. Instruments have also been identified to achieve this objective. In our country, a key document from this area is the strategy adopted in 2005. A key provider of policies and measures for the youth sector is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, which is the body of the Ministry of Education and Sport. However, youth issues need to be addressed across the board and the implementation of the existing strategy can be a suitable basis for further deepening the definition of youth issues. The proposed law on public interest in the youth sector states that in the half-second year following the adoption of this law, the National Youth Programme is to become a core programming document to define priorities and measures of public interest in the youth sector and, of course, in accordance with legislation. Therefore, the national programme is also supposed to contain financial resources, operators, expectations and criteria for measuring, so to speak, the identification of effects. The national programme is to be adopted for a period of five years and is to be adopted by the National Assembly, which should also consider reports on labour efficiency. One of the objectives is to define the youth interest, i.e. also this law, is to define youth work as a public interest, to identify carriers and the relationship between them and also to coordinate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the previous legislative process, we had our ideas and principles defined through the amendments, but unfortunately we did not understand the ruling majority, although they were also supported by the youth sector. Nevertheless, we believe that the law is necessary, that it is still the primary basis for defining public interest in the youth sector, and that we support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Potočnik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u102	Respectable. The proposal for a law on public interest in the youth sector is a long-awaited beginning of comprehensive legislation in the youth sector. In addition to the two laws governing the organisation of only a certain part of the youth sector, this is the year 1994, the adopted Student Community Act and the adopted Youth Councils Act in 2000 – Slovenian policy to date has not been able to adequately respond to the needs for a comprehensive regulation of youth policy in Slovenia. In the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, it represents the first steps on this path as it identifies the basic areas of the youth field and sets out the public interest in it. It defines the institutions and entities in the youth sector and identifies the bodies and their competences that bear the public interest. The law clearly defines the conditions and procedures for obtaining the status of the organisation in the public interest in the youth sector. The law also contains an important step that will follow the adoption of the law, namely the preparation and adoption of a strategic document in this area, the National Youth Programme. It will define strategic objectives, measures to achieve them and will provide the necessary basis for systematic co-financing of programmes in the youth field. The youth sector has developed with envy in the last 15 years, both at organisational, infrastructure and, above all, at the substantive level, and significantly overtaken the legislation that should regulate this area. It is therefore necessary to recognise that after more than 10 years of discussions, preparation and expectations under the comprehensive and systematic regulation of youth policy in Slovenia, the law on public interest represents perhaps less than was expected by the most active youth policy holders in Slovenia. The White Paper on Youth Policy notes that young people make up a changing group that will enter the labour market and once form a family, for young people are constantly moving from learning to work and vice versa, and their individual paths are more diverse than in the past. For young schools and universities, work and the social environment no longer play the same unifying role as they used to. Young people also later appear to be independent. All of this is often manifested in a sense of fragility, loss of confidence in existing decision-making systems and dissatisfaction with traditional forms of participation in public life in youth organisations as well. Some young people feel that institutions, authorities do not always express their interests because these institutions are designed for older ones. More and more young people are becoming carefree or individualized, and many are also testing the extreme forms of expressing their views. Most, however, want to influence the guidelines, but they do not find the right way to do so. No matter what, young people always have a lot to say. After all, they are particularly affected by economic change, demographic imbalance, globalisation and cultural diversity. In times of ever-new uncertainty, young people are expected to develop stable new social relations, different ways of expressing solidarity or bridging differences, and to find new ways to enrich the new social relations of the White Paper on youth policy, so it is expected from policy makers at national and European level that such change processes will enable and encourage young people to become the most prominent members of our society. This is what we are doing with the proposal for a law on public interest in the youth sector, so we will really support it in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the Minister, the well-respected presence. Opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on the Proposal for a Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector. A key Slovenian document by 2005 was adopted by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of youth policy, which has improved the conditions for youth work by defining key areas of youth policy and setting targets, measures and programmes in these areas. By resolution 2005 the Council of Ministers of the European Union invited Member States to accelerate the participation of young people in the mechanisms of representative democracy. We have a law in front of us trying to settle this, as the motioner says. The law provides for public interest in the youth sector to be achieved through the provision of normative and other conditions for the development of youth work areas and the integration of youth perspectives into strategies, policies and measures affecting young people and financial support for youth programmes and programmes, including support for youth infrastructure. The law is intended to allow for better development of the youth sector, as there are so far no appropriate mechanisms at national level to develop and implement youth policy. In particular, this law lays down the powers of the administrative authority responsible for youth and provides for the establishment of an advisory body of the government in this area. We agree that the law of the local community will leave the initiative at local level, as laid down in the law with the implementation of municipal plans for young people. In the parliamentary group, we would also like to point out that the law interferes with a very sensitive area in which everything cannot be regulated only by legal provisions and formalities. Young people need to be brought up primarily as responsible, determined and independent citizens. They must therefore have the conditions for appropriate development, first in their families and wider society. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support that the law provides for a binding strategic document of the National Youth Programme, which must contain strategic objectives and measures to achieve them and will serve as the basis for co-financing programmes in the youth sector. However, it is very important how we will arrange for the financing to be fair, transparent and effective. The question is whether this will be ensured by the fact that funds will be eligible primarily for those programmes implemented by youth councils and youth organisations in the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended proposal will take place 30 minutes after the end of agenda item 15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on integration and corruption prevention within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Respected and respected. The fundamental question raised by modern democratic states and their inhabitants is whether or not the legally elected public authorities and all of us who are given a mandate to carry out public affairs and to decide on social issues, we exercise this mandate in fact and always in the public interest. Decision-making and management processes shall be concentrated in the hands of a small number of elected and appointed representatives. Trust in the basic honesty of an individual, even though expected, has proved insufficient in the actual conduct of public authorities throughout the planet. The abuse of power for private interests and for the interests of capital, without which the existence of political parties that are the basis of public authority seems impossible, is an unacceptable practice. It is called corruption and threatens the rule of law and the confidence of people in state institutions, it reduces political stability and social peace and it is certainly not in the public interest. The power and influence of public authorities must therefore be properly regulated and independently controlled. They are aware of this in many countries, setting up systemic environments to prevent corruption, strengthen transparency and the integrity of the public sector, as they are aware that this provides the basis for the legitimate, transparent and fair functioning of the State as a public service. The setting up of the described environment was also our goal when, in cooperation with the Anti-Corruption Commission, we prepared solutions to the draft law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which is today in the decision-making process before you, honourable Members and Members. The solutions proposed are comprehensive and very restrictive for power carriers and influences and comply with for the first time international standards. In 2008, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia approved the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, and these international standards were incorporated into the amendment of the law, in line with the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of the OECD. When our country assessed the standards in the process of joining our country, it found that the former government had made them significantly worse in 2006, so we improved in the process of association, raised the level of these standards, and said that the process of enacting legislation that is in line with the OECD recommendations was in the legislative process and assessed the proposal for an amendment that is before you today as appropriate. So one who answers questions in a way that modern democracies do. Finally, we have sought to ensure that the solutions are consistent with the knowledge of society, with the requirements of the Slovenian public and with the Commission's knowledge of anti-corruption, and we have in fact responded to and regulated the fight against pressing social issues in the area of anti-corruption. Finally, this proposal complies with the requirements laid down in the decision of the Constitutional Court. In 2006, it repealed several articles of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. So, the law that I cited, the one that reduced the standards in the way that the Constitutional Court, when assessing this regulation, assessed its unconstitutionality in an important part, allowed the Commission to continue its work, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] and today, the solution I propose before you is to adopt it with a high political consensus, thus showing that self-limiting public authority is the awareness of all the representatives we represent. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. The presentation of the Committee's report will be presented by Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 31st urgent meeting on 8 April 2010 and its first meeting on 6 May 2010. The members and members of the committee had a lot of material at their disposal. It was based on a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, including the opinion of the Municipality of Izola, the Council of Justice, the Municipal Municipality of Maribor, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the European Central Bank, the Council of State, comments by the Institute for Information and Cooperation and Development of NGOs and the Government's position on the opinion of the Council of State. Amendments from SD, Zares and DeSUS and the LDS Club of 8 April 2010 and amendments from the SDS Group of Members on 8 April 2010 were tabled for consideration at the home work body. The SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS Group of Members are held on 19. 4. tabled some amendments of 8 April 2010 and a proposal for amendments to the Committee. The Committee also received proposals for amendments from members of the committee Vito Rožej and Tadej Slapnik. Before discussing the draft law, a member of the Committee, representative of the Zares Group, Mr Rožej, explained the request of their parliamentary group for an urgent meeting of the Committee. In the introduction, Mrs Pavlinič Krebsova, Minister of Public Administration, provided an additional explanation. At the second meeting, the State Secretary Tržanov participated. At the time of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Sonja Karlovšek, said that most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. The Council of State, represented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec, proposed, inter alia, the addition of Article 9 so that the Commission of the State Council could also propose one of the members of the Commission. The opinion of the Council of State was taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a written position of 5 May 2010, in which it notes that some of the proposals of the Council of State have already been summarised in the amendments of the coalition groups. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Court of Justice. The Institute for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs also made comments on the proposal. The Committee also took note of the opinion of some of the local communities I listed in the introduction, as well as the opinion of the European Central Bank. In the debate, representatives of the SDS Group said that the SDS Group would support the law as long as the amendments of this Group were adopted. This did not happen, but the amendments of the SDS Group were fully rejected. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted only its amendments, also exclusively, amendments to coalition parliamentary groups and rejected the opposition in full. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. In view of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the draft law which you have received is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. The proposed law on integrity and the prevention of corruption introduces solutions that go beyond the classic concept of preventing corruption and other socially dangerous phenomena, and regulates the systematic prevention of corruption by defining powers, methods and measures to the Commission in strengthening the integrity and transparency of public functions and in the exercise of public authority. In addition, it promotes the active and coordinated functioning of public authorities, civil society institutions, NGOs in the prevention of corruption. The objectives and purposes of the bill are clearly welcome. In Slovenia, there is a clear need to adopt a regulation that will fully and thoroughly regulate the fight against corruption. Corruption threatens democracy, the rule of law, social order and social peace, and people's confidence in the rule of law and the social state, and the Constitutional Court in its decision stressed that the prevention of corruption stems from the very foundations of every rule of law. The proposed law seeks to respond to the actual social needs to strengthen the integrity and transparency of public authorities and to effectively prevent corruption, but despite the well-intentioned orientation of the proposal and the excellent starting points, the disputed diction of individual articles, which must be particularly relevant to the sensitive matter to which they relate, can undoubtedly be formulated. The Legislative and Legal Service also made comments on more than half of the articles of the bill, and the Council of Justice also stated in its opinion that the proposal for a law was not sufficiently transparent. In line with expectations, most of the articles of the draft law on the home labour body were subject to broad debates and, consequently, to changes. The bill also raises another important issue in addition to the drafting of the articles. There is a specific problem with the appointment of new members of the Commission to prevent corruption, whose mandate expires on 30 September 2010. The appointment procedure should start six months before the end of the current term of office. The proposed law, which is in the process of amending the appointment procedure, reduces the number of members of the Commission from five to three and the current president and deputy cannot be reappointed to the commission after the term of office. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that a law with several amendments such as articles deserves a thorough overhaul or is expected to be rewritten. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will decide on possible support or non-support for the Proposal for a Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption at the time of the vote in view of the progress of the debate and the confirmation of the amendments, some of which are also acceptable to the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present his position on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, President, colleague and colleague! Nicely greeted. Members of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will vote on the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption on our own conscience, and we will also vote on our own conscience after the amendments tabled, as we did not get the law within the parliamentary club of consent. The law rewards and transparently complements the area of prevention, detection and analysis of corruption. The main objective of the proposed law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is to ensure that employees and officials do their work in a fair, professional and transparent manner. The aim of the law is also to promote the fair and transparent behaviour of public servants and the good practices of all those who are part of the decision-making process. The law establishes the necessary conditions for the implementation of constitutional principles such as the principle of constitutionality and legality, the principle of the division of power, the principle of proportionality in the exercise and limitation of rights, the principle of equality before the law and the principle of equality of legal security. In its decision, the Constitutional Court also stressed that the prevention of corruption stems from the very foundations of the rule of law. As such, corruption threatens democracy, the rule of law, social order and social peace, and last but not least, the confidence of people in the rule of law and the social state. The new improvements, the solutions introduced in the law, thus strengthen the rule of law. Since 2000, Slovenia has adopted a series of documents since the Report of the Group of States against Corruption in the Council of Europe and has set up an independent body to prevent corruption and coordinate anti-corruption activities. The Council of Europe, the OECD, the European Union and the United Nations praised all progress in preventing corruption; even more than that, Slovenian solutions have become an example to a number of European countries, in particular in South-Eastern Europe. After this period and the good practice recognised by the above-mentioned international organisations, it is time to improve and upgrade, in line with the changes, the area of prevention and detection of corruption. Firstly, the proposed law introduces a series of solutions that go beyond the classic concept of preventing corruption and other dangerous phenomena. Strengthened powers and powers of the reformed Commission as a self-sustaining and independent state authority with objectives and tasks in strengthening integrity and preventing corruption shall ensure that institutions and individuals, with professional assistance from the Commission, actively contribute to preventing and in particular addressing the causes of corruption and other illegal practices in the wider and narrower public sector at national and local level. As a matter of fact, with updates, legal solutions, comprehensively and systematically regulates the prevention of corruption by establishing the powers, methods and measures of the Commission in strengthening the integrity and transparency of public functions and in the exercise of public authority. In the first place, it requires and introduces effective protection for applicants of corrupt practices and, as is new in the law, this is the area of lobbying; supervision of the professional and ethical functioning of lobbyists is introduced. The law also defines the development and implementation of integrity plans as assistance in the implementation of the law and the anti-corruption strategy of individual state and local authorities; the limitation and resolution of conflicts of interest; the transparency of receiving gifts and the control of property; and the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy. The key novelties of the law, in addition to improving and modernising the system of detection and prevention of corruption in the determination of an independent and independent state authority, are also in determining the control of that body to be held by the National Assembly and the provisions on lobbying. The new law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is also necessary for the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption - this bill follows the provisions of the Convention. In addition, this year we will become members of the OECD, members of the family of the most developed 30 countries. The recommendations formulated by Member States in the fight against unfair public authorities and corruption are fully taken into account in the proposal for a law. And last but not least, here is the Constitutional Court's decision against the law, which annulled that most of the articles were fairly modern in 2004, when an independent anti-corruption body was established. [[...]] Everything mentioned in the bill is amended, improved and upgraded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that corruption threatens democracy, the rule of law, social order and social peace, so we have always tried to regulate this area. We have also proved this in the previous term when we opposed the repeal of the law that abolished the anti-corruption commission. When the law was passed, we demanded an assessment of the constitutionality of the law, especially because the law had abolished an independent body that had previously acted independently in constitutional functions such as the control of the conflict of interest between the public and private sectors, the control of the assets of officials and other systemic tasks in addressing the causes of corruption. The Constitutional Court gave us the right. It imposed on the National Assembly that the finding of non-compliance should be abolished within six months, but the former government did not do so. It was even against the law on integrity in the public sector prepared by the opposition MPs at the time. Therefore, corruption is unacceptable to others for the current opposition, and they are not concerned about it. That is why we have concluded that in this mandate we will regulate this area more comprehensively in order to introduce solutions that go beyond the classic concept of preventing corruption and other dangerous phenomena. And that, in our opinion, is now the content of the bill. The bill is now more comprehensive and systematic in the prevention of corruption by defining the powers, methods and measures of the Commission in strengthening the integrity and transparency of public functions in the exercise of authority. More effective protection of reporting agents is being introduced. Control of lobbying is being introduced, which is a novelty in our legal order, and at the same time requires lobbyists to act professionally and ethically. The law requires a consistent implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy, defines the development and implementation of integrity plans and provides assistance in the enforcement of the law and anti-corruption strategy to individual national and local authorities. The law also defines the limitation and elimination of conflicts of interest, provides for transparency of acceptance of gifts and supervision of the assets of officials, officials in the position of public procurement officials, business persons and lobbyists with permanent residence in Slovenia. The law also strengthens the active and coordinated functioning of state authorities, civil society institutions and the media in preventing corruption. Since the then coalition against anti-corruption legislation also opposed, inter alia, its President, Drag Kos, in the new bill, as promised by the government, we do not allow the re-election of the current president and members of the anti-corruption commission. Given that we, or that we have a modelised area so far in Slovenia, have been commended by the relevant GREKA international institution, even more than once, our goal should be to continue to strengthen the area of integrity and prevent corruption and to discourage all those covered by the Corruption Act there. The proposed law on integrity, together with the amendments of the four coalition parliamentary groups, will therefore be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. Hala.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u116	Your Honor! Even on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, everyone has a very nice greeting. Since the current ruling set-up in the last term has been extremely fragile in opposition to any attempt to create legal conditions for effective prosecution of corruption - I would like to point out that this has not only been the case with the anti-corruption law, but that it was even more obvious in resisting the new law on prosecution, that is, with regard to the criminal code that effectively punishes, exacerbates the penalties for corruption and also introduces certain acts as criminal acts in the field of corruption that were not at all - the ruling coalition has now proposed its new law. Unfortunately, there is only one thing we can find out: the proposal of the law on integrity and the fight against corruption, as is widely called in the legislative process sent by the Government, is just one more proof that the current ruling suit is about stopping the truth and, above all, making an impression on the public, how the ruling elite is now going to fight corruption, which will in fact, through this law, be full of indeterminate and divisive formulations that allow widespread abuses, actually co-created and even institutionalised itself. The text thus provides, inter alia, for the financing of non-governmental organisations from taxpayers' funds under this law, while legislating formal cooperation with these same NGOs. And NGOs will in fact be demolished as paid supporters of the commission - that is, commissions formed under this law - and thus the ruling elite, because now the ruling political option under the law will monopolize this commission. Thus, an additional pyar of the ruling coalition is being enacted under the cover of civil society and at the expense of taxpayers' money; if we call things by the right name, institutionalised corruption with a clear political sign, for which taxpayers' money will be misused. The proposal of the law on integrity and the fight against corruption will thus remain for the greater part of history as a brilliant example of the continuation of the surrender of butalers by the transitional left in the spirit of "in the fight against corruption, we will corrupt whoever it is necessary and cost what it wants". At present, the ruling elite, on behalf of the fight against corruption with taxpayers' money, will corrupt NGOs as part of civil society and, on the basis of what additional pirates they have made, make an impression at home and abroad on their fight against corruption. With taxpayers' money, she will therefore buy public support from NGOs in her own, under new laws, care for her appearance, her image or, if you like, her innocence. In order to be full, lobbying and lobbyists were included in the law in the government. In the SDS, we have proposed that this very sensitive and very important area in the modern world should be regulated by a special law that this sensitive topic would certainly earn, but the ruling coalition has rejected this, like all other SDS amendments. Now we have come to the point where in the government or the ruling coalition - unprofessionally or intentionally, choose for yourself - little to overlook that NGOs or key individuals in them often perform in practice also as lobbyists of certain interests. And since the commission responsible for combating corruption will, by law, finance these NGOs, which will act on this as well as its own, from taxpayers' paid lobbyists' money, the only logical conclusion is that, under the cover of the fight against corruption, this law institutionalises systemic corruption within civil society. No wonder Dr. Lovro Sturm, a professor of constitutional law, has been warning for some time that we are living in a period of systemic kleptocracy. The proposal for a law on integrity and the fight against corruption is clearly unconstitutional in some parts. And it's all written that the ruling obviously cares about their appearance. Moreover, in the draft law itself, as the Government has sent to Parliament, it has explicitly stated: 'the appearance' which has sanctioned it. Listen, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] a well-known example in the modern world that something that would only look like it, even if nothing actually affects any process or decision, would have serious material consequences for it, as this law had foreseen. [[...]] Now this is confused with another formulation, with "potentials", but the content remains, content which is constitutionally controversial and which is not undermined in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a long debate on the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. The basic objective of the proposed law is to ensure that the state provides conditions for staff and officials to carry out their work in a fair and professional manner, as we want them to achieve a higher standard in this area. The aim of the law is also to promote fair and transparent behaviour and decision-making of public servants and to promote good practices for all those involved in decision-making processes. The proposed law introduces solutions that go beyond the classic description of preventing corruption and other socially dangerous phenomena. The law also provides for the continued existence of a Commission to prevent corruption. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the Commission, the so-called Kosovo Commission, justified its existence, carried out its work well and resiliently, and therefore it is also right to maintain such a form. This is a big difference from the intentions of the previous so-called Janša government, which wanted to abolish the commission, so-called Kosovo. The establishment and competences of the Renovated Anti-Corruption Commission as an independent and independent State body to strengthen integrity and prevent corruption also reduce the costs for the salaries of officials, as the number of these decreases from five to three current officials. The demanding role of individuals and institutions, in particular the civil society of NGOs and the media, in strengthening integrity and transparency, and in preventing corruption and other illegalities in the public sector, the proposed law, according to our assessment, strengthens democracy in these important areas of social life. Here we are different from the colleague who represented the previous position, at the very point of the role of NGOs and civil society, in these processes, where we see that this role can be positive, certainly, and also meaningful in engaging in this work. When proposing the law, we really need to highlight the chapter on lobbying, which is a novelty, because in the Slovenian legal order, for the first time it regulates the registration of lobbyists, their rights and obligations, the supervision of their work and the sanctions for infringements committed in lobbying. Lobbies and lobbying are phenomena that, because of their dual nature, expressed both in desirable and undesirable content and in forms of emergence, modern political systems try to make more transparent, as mentioned above, by establishing legal regulation, control and sanctioning. Thus, among other things, they try to prevent abuse and bribery, or undesirable patterns of behaviour of lobbyists and lobbyists. The danger of corruption, which threatens the democratic functioning of political systems by means of an opaque or hidden system of influence and decision- buying, has encouraged several countries to do so now in many ways. Although the proposal in this chapter, according to our assessment, is good, we have amendments that want to delete this, which we will not support, because we believe are proposed quality and good solutions, even in the opinion of the professional public. If, of course, lobbying was eliminated from the legal matter - and we are not familiar with and familiar with the motives for proposing it - it would be much different in the case of the Patria affair. The question remains, of course, to whom and why someone opposes lobbying, for obviously we do not all want or want open hunting, unregulated matters, illegal methods, and commission money. We in Zares certainly don't, and because of this, the SDS amendments, which actually don't want or delete the entire chapter of lobbying, we won't support it. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we will fully support the proposal for a law, because we believe that this proposed law can make progress in overcoming corruption and the unfair conduct of individuals, especially officials, in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, distinguished Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we see the draft law on integrity and the prevention of corruption as a starting point for regulating this content, but we believe that there is too much confusion and uncertainty to support the bill in such a form. Those who say that marriagemakers were too hasty because of the various invitations and the like may be in such a hurry. This is probably also reflected in the number of amendments that have arrived on the parent working body by coalition parties. Certainly, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party also support the aspirations of curbing corruption, the regulation of the so-called anti-corruption commission and, of course, the legal regime of lobbying. But we are sure that all of this does not belong to the same law. Lobbing is certainly so important, difficult and complex that it is intertwined with a variety of activities that it is possible to judge its marriage. Above all, a broader discussion is likely to be needed only on the topic of lobbying before we regulate the matter. After all, lobbying is still perceived as something negative today, in my opinion unjustifiable. Among other things, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also concerned about the opinion of the Council of Justice, whose representatives have argued that the draft law cannot be supported in such a form. Most likely, they are also hoping for changes at least in the point where we are talking about the publication of the property situation, which they believe is constitutionally controversial. Among other things, the provisions on the appointment and supervision of the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission, as well as provisions relating to individuals of private law, are quite inconsistent. There are also incomplete solutions regarding mayors and the mayors and their participation and the possibility of supervision in public funds, public enterprises and so on. We therefore believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, even after the adoption of the amendments, cannot be placed within the framework in which it belongs, and therefore we do not intend to support it because we want to finally get a really good and effective anti-corruption law in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. In Slovenia, the opinion is that corruption in Slovenia is increasing and that this is a major problem. Thus, a public opinion poll on corruption in 2009 showed. That corruption in Slovenia is a very big problem, i.e. it thinks 70% of respondents, and 72% also estimates that it has increased compared to the period before 1990. According to the results of this study, there has been a marked increase in the criticalness of the population and the population. The proportion of those who view corruption in Slovenia as a major or very big problem is rising in recent years, if 62% were convinced in 2007, this share is 70% in 2009. Then it is good to know that very few respondents, 4.6%, have had a personal experience with corruption, which, according to the DeSUS Group, suggests that people are convinced that in Slovenia the so-called "great corruption" occurs mainly in the policy circles of the central state apparatus. Most respondents believe that bribes in public services are received by a large number of public servants. A very large portion, which is 12.5%, believes that almost all public employees receive bribes. However, as the most corrupt categories involved in the study, lawyers, notaries, doctors and healthcare professionals are assessed. These categories are followed by inspectors, MPs, judges and court officials to assess the likelihood that an individual will have to offer money, gifts or services. At the bottom of the scale are traditionally employees on municipal administrations, tax officials, teachers and professors. The main reasons for corruption are seen only in the ineffective prosecution of corruption, weak legislation and too low penalties. According to our assessment, the long-awaited proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which should ensure that employees and officials carry out their work in a fair, professional and transparent manner, will also help to prevent corruption more effectively. One of the novelties in the law is also the provisions on lobbying. The lobbyists will have to register what the anti-corruption commission will do. Penalties are provided for infringements of lobbyists, including the withdrawal of licences and the prohibition of lobbying. As an important novelty, we can lay down the provision that all contracting parties in the public sector will have to include an anti-corruption clause for services or procurement in contracts. The law is also intended to regulate the protection of the reporting agents of corruption, which we also welcome in the DeSUS Group, as this protection, according to our assessment of people who see possible corruption, will encourage a report of suspicious developments without fear of their own security. We also welcome a new chapter of conflict of interest, in which under the threat of sanctions it is no longer permitted to engage in any process by someone who had a private interest in this process. In the DeSUS Group, we want the bill before us to truly bring good solutions, more effective detection of corruption, more transparent functioning of officials and at the same time enhance the public sector's reputation. That is why we will also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments to the article to be carried out on the basis of the new review of the amendments that we received today at the table, which is a new review with the date of 18 May 2010. The new review was tabled as the two amendments were amended before the initiation of the hearing. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments to the articles tabled. Mr. Grimes, procedurally? [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry, we're not at his place yet, but we'll be there any minute. [[...]] We are therefore moving on to the debate on Article 9 and the amendments to Article 9. The first amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members and the second by the Coalition Group of Members. Since the first amendment is also linked to Article 22 we will have a joint debate on Articles 9 and 22. If the amendment to Article 9 is adopted, it will become irrelevant to the second amendment to this Article and, if it is not adopted, to Article 22. Is anyone else applying for the debate on Articles 9 and 22? Minister. Any other Members and Members? They're more reported. I'm giving you time to report. Anyone who wants to hear from you. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u124	Your Honor! First of all, to the two amendments, which are now connected in one set, one brief introduction to the legal text ahead of us. The problem with this text is that it is full of divisive ambiguous formulations, because it is in the background, according to the SDS assessment, also a great deal of misdirection. The fact is that this law can in some ways be a school example of how laws cannot be written. As regards 90 articles of this Act, as far as the law even counts, 94 amendments have been tabled, so that more amendments have been tabled than all the articles it has. It is interesting to mention that most amendments to this law have been tabled by the ruling coalition, which, in some parts, is also clearly unconstitutional. And then there were amendments to the amendments, amendments to their own amendments and so on. So it is something that is clearly contrary to the legal order, which will in no way contribute to more legal order, but rather the opposite. It is highly likely that because of these legally indeterminate, divisive, ambiguous formulations and a bunch of contraventions, the law will in fact contribute to a greater legal mess in this country. Indeed, it will help further to create a conceptual disorder. In the introductory part of the law, we wanted to reach a meeting of the Committee of Restrictions in order to apply only, but in full, to the public sector. That was rejected, too. We are now dealing with provisions defining the procedures for the establishment of a commission under this law and, in particular, who appoints them. Here I would point out that the law, as now proposed, plays a very important role for the President of the country. Following the warnings of all constitutional experts, regardless of which part of the political spectrum they belong to, they have been following warnings for some time now, and this is the point of their agreement, the practical consensus of the constitutional profession, that the additional and additional uploads of various designations, of human resources solutions to the President of the State are already beyond the constitutional framework. Although this is possible and permissible under the Constitution, things, as they are now set up, are going in the opposite direction from what the legislator or constitutionalist had in mind when writing the new Slovenian Constitution. According to the Slovenian Constitution, the first person to make appointments is Parliament. The greatest possible nonsense that we unfortunately hear too often in this room is that the Minister or the President of the State is not a politician, and that, therefore, appointment once going through there is not a political appointment. Of course, he is as directly loved as a fellow Member. And, of course, when a person is loved in democratic elections, it is clear that it is politics. The President of the country is also a couple of excellencies, which is why, of course, this argument does not hold up. I would like to point out, however, the solutions arising from the Slovenian Constitution, which state that the most democratic path and also the most natural path is in accordance with the Slovenian constitutional regulation of that which takes place through the National Assembly, where all things are transparent, where all political options are represented - the position and opposition and therefore where there is room for a reasoned confrontation of facts and proposals. And with this aim we propose to transfer the appointment process to where it follows from the Slovenian Constitution - to the National Assembly. So through the competent working body or when it comes to the discharge process, through an appropriate number of Members. We do not need to be carried out, we do not - we want an effective prosecution of corruption, we want an effective prosecution of all crime-related acts and therefore we refuse to commit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As far as the law we are currently discussing is concerned, it will receive my support. The second amendment to this article, which we are now talking about, cannot, however, receive my support for the first amendment, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members for a very simple reason. If we had adopted it, we would, in a way, have moved the ground of the law as proposed and, at least, I am giving him all the support. Why is he actually going? It is about the amendments trying to resist the introduction of novelty into the law, as regards appointment and control. The law simply assumes that this function of appointment should be separated from the function of control, which I think is also right. By doing so, we must ask ourselves how we understand the institutions we are talking about. We are talking about the National Assembly, we are talking about the National Assembly and we are talking about the President of the Republic of Slovenia. At least in my judgment, the presidency of the state is in itself, without linking it to any name placed in our order, indicating that we trust it. Since the electoral system is also adapted to this, this majority trust must also be confirmed. There is no particular reason why we should be very careful about the fact that we also trust what tasks with the President of the State. However, I think it is significantly less politically determined party than either the opposition or the coalition in the National Assembly. That is also why I think that the one appointed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia can be so much more involved in our trust, less dependent on relations in the National Assembly and more independent in his work and in his decision-making. Apart from the fact that this trust in the presidency, which, when confirmed in the elections, has gained great confidence in our country personally, it is also very important how the President of the Republic of Slovenia appoints someone. And this way is, in fact, almost independent of him. The president is the one who calls, the president is the one who's not much on the proposals that came, but it's someone else. So the Commission, which is made up of eminent people, who are also proposed by the eminent institutions in our country, considers the appropriateness of individual candidates. I believe that such a procedure is one that guarantees less politicalism than the previous law has provided, and it is also confidence in the presidential function that is both strong enough that, at least I reject the amendment proposed and that I can support the law proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. I certainly cannot agree here with my forerunner, Mr Rezman, who says that the previous appointment of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission has been less political than it can now be. Of course, that can't be true. Why? We are at Article 9, which speaks of the appointment of a commission, the appointment of an anti-corruption commission. One of the points of view clearly states that it is the President of the State who appoints the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission and also the Deputy. If we come from assumptions that we see in general in a society that is taking place by the President of the country, then I can say that, in our opinion, it is a significantly better solution if we really want to ensure that both corruption and clientism are pursued as independently as possible, in order to take into account the amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. For we believe that such officers of the Commission should be appointed by the National Assembly on the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. This means that such an arrangement, in our view, is significantly more appropriate and also in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and also in accordance with the principle of equality. For I believe that, given that the President of the country is a political person and is certainly a politically defined person. This is not a person who does not have some political definitions, but, worst of all, this president of the country we have today, not only is he politically defined, he is also very party to certain issues, which is a major problem. And if this Commission, or its Chief President of the Commission and also the Vice-President, is to be appointed by the President of the State of which we know how politically defined it is, I fear that we will not achieve the objectives of effective prevention and persecution of corruption. Unless the ruling coalition is not the goal and purpose at all. It is said that corruption is not pursued. For at this point, given the President's statement to date, no one can convince me that the President of the State, Dr Danilo Türk, will, in this case, choose according to the principle or by the key of expertise and appropriateness of these two candidates. I am confident that the President of the country will be significantly more determined by the key to political belonging and compatibility with a political option. And that's the main problem and that trap that comes from Section 9 of this Law. I believe that, at first glance, it looks extremely nice to be appointed by the President of the State for such an important function, but it is important to ask whether this President of the State is actually acting on the principle of the criteria of expertise. Will it work more significantly on a political basis, political affiliation and compatibility? I do not believe that the President-elect of the Anti-Corruption Commission will pursue those who are either close to the circle of the President of the country or close to the coalition political parties. No one's gonna convince me about this. Let's just look at one of the last cases concerning the National Investigation Office. There has been proven corruption and customerism, but Mr Kos, who is the head of today's anti-corruption commission, has not issued any opinion on this subject. Although he himself said that he would issue an opinion on this matter the next day after the interview against the interior minister. But we still haven't come to the end of this. I know that there will be a debate on how we can judge the President of the country, how we can say that he is a client, and so on. Let's just see what happened years ago. When the Golobic affair took place, Mr President of the State, with all the capabilities he has, began to defend the President of Zares. So, clearly, he acted politically, strongly partyingly and not even the previous two presidents of the country, not Mr Kučan, not Mr Drnovšek, were so politically defined as to define and protect people at such events. And here I see the main problem. And I can see that there is a lot of excitement in the coalition when it comes to this directly, but I believe that you will be able to give your opinion further, which, of course, I do not doubt that you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? First of all, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The Government of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party does not support Article 9. Mrs Irgl presented very nicely the very problem that we wanted the proponents to consider how to define a body that would appoint three officials, namely the President and the two Deputys, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, how to divide the function of appointment, supervision, among the various branches of government, so that the obvious focus of the government is on the most executive power, so that the current government majority is as far away as possible. Your case when you spoke of Mr Kos as an example of political compatibility with the government majority, but Mr Kos was appointed on the basis of the procedure you are proposing today. The mandate-election commission of the current political authorities in Parliament and the government every time is a reflection of most of those coalition parliamentary parties that have public authority, if you will, at a certain point. This power is allocated between two independent branches of government, executively, i.e. the government, and parliament, but it is known that the parliamentary majority supports the government majority so that the policy prepared by the government in important work can be confirmed by ruling coalition MPs, as they, along with the same programme, have been addressed by the electorate and the electorate. The proposal, as you suggest, would also be drafted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and confirmed by the government majority in the National Assembly, the majority of the rulings, this clear political compatibility with the current rulings just confirms. We wanted to avoid this obvious because we want this commission to be, that these three officials are independent of the current authorities. Therefore, the selection process is significantly more important than the body which ultimately implements the act of appointment, as Mr Rezman took up the procedure of the basic proposal of Article 9. The Election Commission shall be composed of five members. There is no government majority among the members we are proposing. Only one is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the other by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We have even proposed a commission where the president of the opposition has an opposition, and the Rule of Law has warned us that the Government as a candidate cannot dictate to the National Assembly, which commission will carry out its task and that it is a matter of rules of procedure and of the National Assembly to assign this task to the Commission. We hope, of course, that the one proposed in the first draft of the bill will, on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, align this proposal with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Third, non-profit private sector organisations or non-governmental organisations in the field of anti-corruption. There aren't many, but there are. Then the Council of Justice from among its members, it is a completely independent body from the government, and an official council from among its members. The Official Council shall be the body which shall examine the competences of the highest public officials who run for public office. Since the beginning of this government's mandate, the composition of the official council has been absolutely and completely unpolitical. The government appoints four representatives to this 12-member expert body, but we have appointed two private law experts involved in human resources procedures in their professional activities and two academic experts involved in human resources procedures. All with the desire to win as a politician, who ultimately chooses from competent candidates, is the best to make this assessment, this expert body makes it as professionally as possible, without the influence of politics. The selection committee will carry out the selection process for the eligible candidate. The conditions for a person to be a suitable candidate are not simple. Here too, we have made sure that, in addition to this structure that defines competences: adequate education, non-punitiveness and so on, of course, we define clearly as a fundamental condition that, in its ten-year work so far, it proves appropriate to carry out this function. This assessment will be carried out by the Electoral Commission when one of these candidates, who will be able to apply for a public call made by the Legal Office of the Prime Minister, will apply, so the Election Commission will prepare a set of suitable candidates who will have to meet very difficult legal conditions. The President of the Government will appoint from this selection a suitable panel, which is entirely apolitical, composed of extremely plural, to appoint. No, I would like to stress very clearly and loudly, Mr Grims, no constitutional section on this particular legislative procedure, nor in the procedure for adopting a regulation in the Government in a public debate which was extremely long and which we have done with civil society, with expertise and with everyone, is it, and last but not least, the Office of the Government of Law and the Rule of Law has not opposed and said that the regulation we are proposing is inconsistent with the Constitution. And actually it's not. Mr Grims, this is your reason not to accept the text of this regulation, which is strict to politicians, which is strict to public authority, which is extremely, extremely restrictive. When I presented the draft law to the representatives of the Council of State, I must say that it was supported unanimously, without a vote against it, because, I think, of the warnings that have been taken very seriously: that such a regulation cannot be amended every few years and that the level of restriction of public authority cannot be reduced for every new authority to reduce the level of the fight against corruption in the country. We do not have this public authority's right, the degree of confidence that people have in our work, in the functioning of state institutions, is such a minimum that we have to ensure, with unanimous support and with a relatively stable regime, that we have installed security guards in the system, where we, who have the most power in the decision-making and use of public funds, are self-restraint. And allow them to control us as independents. And this commission, which we are reinstituting as a fully independent body in relation to the other branches of government, must work in accordance with the law and the Constitution. But we want her to depend on the current political majority. And the President of the State will choose the most suitable candidate among these candidates and will appoint him. In order for the President of the State to appoint individual officers, it follows from Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the powers of the President of the Republic. That is, "the President of the Republic shall appoint state officials when determined by law". And the law we are proposing, clearly and transparently, unmistakable, as you have unjustifiably criticised this part of the law, defines the procedure for appointing three anti-corruption commission officials acting in the Senate to decide on the phenomena that are dangerous to society. And once again the statement which was made ten times: on the board, today, that ye may not support this law, because it is not in accordance with the constitution. It's a clean, clean lie and a deception to the public. After you say the same thing a hundred times, of course they believe that something is already on it. No, he doesn't. My sentence, which I just read, puts you on a lie. If the law provides that the President of the State appoints an official, this is lawful and consistent with the constitution which gives us who propose laws and the parliamentary majority the mandate to give the President of the Government the power to appoint a state official by law. Only this jurisdiction was given to the President of the State. And in an important part, in the five articles, Mr Grimes, we define the important tasks that the National Assembly has. These are both bodies, i.e. the President of the State elected in direct elections and also the National Assembly elected in direct elections. This is simply the highest legitimacy, the most legitimate authorities at state level, who are loved directly in elections, have essential and important powers. The President of the Constitutional Appointment and the National Assembly shall retain four powers. First, of course, he participates in a selection committee with his candidate, he is one of five. The Commission is obliged to report once a year to the National Assembly by 31 May of the current year. In fact, when these officials have to report, they will also have to provide an assessment of the current situation in the field of anti-corruption to the National Assembly, which may propose a better resolution, better anti-corruption rules. And in fact, the National Assembly or its body, which the Government cannot propose, will determine for itself. The Commission will monitor the assets of the three officials, then the adoption of gifts, conflicts of interest and the incompatibilities of the functions of the anti-corruption commission. Another article is very important. The National Assembly shall also be designated as a proposer for the discharge of any of the anti-corruption commission’s officials if it assesses that it does not act in accordance with the law or constitution. During the current term of office of the Anti-Corruption Commission, the National Assembly will be able to assess the work and, if it assesses that the Commission is acting in contravention of the laws or constitution that framed the work of this Commission, it will be a proposal for a discharge. We have assessed and I am pleased that the majority in the National Assembly, too, have made this division significantly more sure that it does not happen what Mrs Irgle rightly points out that the current political majority would have an impact on the appointment of this body, which must be independent, that it can carry out its function as defined by the law, the other rules, the resolution on anti-corruption action and so on. Thus, it is not possible to support your proposed solution in an argument that, in agreement with Mrs Irglovo, an assessment by political parties that the current National Assembly, with its current ruling majority, can give political guidance to the selection of a more suitable candidate government, because, through this majority through the Mandate-voluntary Commission, it is peaceful to propose to someone who is after the year. That is why I propose a re-examination of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has proposed a solution, because we assess that it is our solution that follows their intentions to have less political influence of the current authorities on the process of appointing three important Commission officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I see interest in the debate. Mr. Grimes, the debate? [[Yeah.]] Please let anyone else who wants to discuss apply to the debate. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would first like to define myself to the whole law that I intend to support, as the Group of Members said. The fundamental argument is that I have been monitoring the fate of the anti-corruption commission for a long time. And when they heard the loudest voice of how much they had to pursue corruption, in fact, they tried their best to stop the anti-corruption commission that worked at the time, and I will not explain history. I therefore find it perfectly understandable that it is very important what we call the Commission’s leadership. And Article 9 is supported or open to the most numerous interventions and doubts whether the proposed procedure is good or not. I believe that, as is stated in the basic law and as with the proposed amendment, there is little correction to fill a gap or some uncertainty, as appropriate, so I intend to support the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. However, I do not intend to support the amendment of the SDS Group, because I think that the way they have acted and how they justify the appropriateness of their proposal does not address the problems they are so determined or at least in their words. According to their proposal, everything is in the hands of the Council of Ministers-elect. That the mandate-election commission is a political body, just as we are political officials of all Members and Members, is completely understandable. So that this selection process will be made of a call through everything else in the hands of a coalition majority, it is perfectly understandable. I don't see any other options here. However, I am not sure that I would consider it a great advantage to propose that the President and Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission should swear before the National Assembly. The oath itself, the act of oath itself cannot be a guarantee I do not know how very politically and conscientiously to carry out, since, after all, the area of work is defined and every public official has to work for the benefit of the state and citizens and citizens. I don't know why officials should swear in front of the National Assembly. I recall that some of the current officials have also sworn before the National Assembly and this has not prevented them from acting in such a way that they cannot be recognized as acting solely for the benefit of others but not for their own good. And we've adopted some other codes, and I don't know what else, but there was a lot to figure out. If this is not the principle under which the Mandate-Election Commission decides everything - from calling through choice to appointment and swearing before the National Assembly, then another way must be found. And I don't understand why I wouldn't be able to direct or appoint the President of the State. The third indent of Article 107 of the Constitution states that the President of the State shall appoint state officials where provided for by law. In any event, this Article does not limit the number of laws by which the President of the State may obtain a post of appointment. And the matter of personal judgment is whether it seems to him that, according to his opinion, each individual may speak that way, at least I have a feeling in this Chamber that he himself can judge whether the President of the State should be named once after one law or after two, but if at ten, he is, God forbid, too much. Because we're thinking about this thing and not ad rem. And it seems to me that it would be time to think about what the powers of the President of the State are, why we love him in direct elections and what functions he should actually perform. I submit that, under the third indent of Article 107 of the Constitution, it is entirely appropriate to do so, so once again, I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as the proposed solution seems inadequate to me. However, it is necessary to resolve the appointment in a way that ensures as much independence as possible from the current political will. It also seems good to me that it is so laid down that every official can have only two consecutive mandates in this committee and that the term of office of the President of the Commission is not covered by the Vice-Presidents' mandate. Thus, there is also a degree of cross-time and appointment and the possibility of change and continuation of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u134	We have some experience in this area in Slovenia. Either good or bad, in particular, it could be called useless for us to make a consistent system that ensures transparency, transparency, control and that those involved in all these procedures would act in accordance with the laws and would also be subject to any judgment. In the current period, we have the opportunity to monitor the disputes of one commission with another, explaining how someone should understand which commission rules are true, what must be reported and so on. That's not good, and that's why they're looking for better solutions. I regret that you have provided explanations or examples of countries that are not comparable to Slovenia. I don't know why you didn't give Finland or anything else, France certainly isn't, Romania isn't either, Luxembourg isn't, Poland isn't, but Finland would be, for example, where in the last two, three years we've taught a lot about how Finland is monitoring some corruption and how quickly it is sanctioning some of them if they are involved in political functions. I think in these matters you should always look at this, not only what color the cat is, but whether this one hunts mice or not. And in this part, we're dealing with it. Whether this process is the best or the right results is difficult to say. I think that the composition of the Commission - the truth to the heart - is very difficult to imagine how non-profit private sector organisations will be in the field of preventing corruption from their members [[there are many organizations]] They'll coordinate, give one, and then he'll act on this committee on behalf of everyone. This is probably why the amendment and amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups is also unclear. This one is unclear because he says: "If the proposer is a member of the selection committee within the time limit referred to in the first [[?]] They won't name, the part that he's going to name is going to do the job." But it doesn't say how many there must be. I guess at least one of them has to be on this committee so that this committee can even start working. It cannot be said, however, that if they do not, the commission will begin its work with the appointed members until then. In this case, the Election Commission shall take a decision by a majority of the votes of the appointed members. I don't know how many of those four have to be. There must be two, three? Four? I don't know. It would probably be considered that the Legislative and Legal Service will, however, see whether this is harmonised or not. I believe that it is better after the current experiences that I have already mentioned that the President of the State takes office because, in principle, except for 20 years or more, I do not think they cover the election of the President of the State and Parliament or of the Government, because there is a five-year term here for four years. And that is why it can also be significantly more independent or goes beyond what can be said to cover interests, conflict of interest and so on. After all, we have experience in Slovenia so far that only all the presidents of the country have been thorns in the fifth, for example, one part of the political spectrum. Which, of course, means that they were independent and enjoyed some trust. In order to overcome this by carrying out this task in the National Assembly or in the Mandate-Election Commission, we have had the opportunity to see in some cases the appointment. In spite of the plural structure in Parliament, in fact certain things have been done solely by one hoof. But it's also useless in this thing. This amendment by the SDS Group shows the urgency that goes beyond the philosophy of law and principles that it wants to introduce, so it cannot be supported. I agree with those who say how it is possible to have 90 articles 95 amendments. You'll never hear it from my mouth, even if it's our government. But believe me, we had exactly the same cases in all the compositions of the National Assembly. The fact that with new and new data, by seeking better solutions, the law complements, upgrades, is only possible whether we would rather not wait and put it into procedure a little later than then making amendments. But this cannot affect the decision as to whether we need or answer the basic question of how to deal better with this, let's say, a rather pressing question. There are more than enough readings in Slovenia as well. And if anyone, then parliamentary parties and Members, have to be particularly interested in doing these things in a way that will be controlled, controlled, and those who are independent, professional and will be able to report to the public whether we are working in the interest of citizens and citizens or working, if you want, for their own account and similar things. That's all there is to it. I will also consider whether this amendment or amendment of the coalition groups will be supported because I do not understand it and I think it would make it difficult to work because it is impossible to do. If it says that it will also be possible to do so in a smaller composition than the prescribed commission, then it is necessary to say how small a number is. For one less, for two, for three, for four? In theory, none of them will be named, and the Commission will still be if you allow this option. I wouldn't let her, because they're bound to do it. If the law requires them to do so, they must do so. Not that we're saying because they didn't, but the commission is going to be working without one that I don't know if you already have any idea why. [[...]] If you think they are, the non-profits won't be able to organize or anyone else. But in my firm belief, the laws are not written in such a way as to say that the composition is such, and you, these institutions, because you have serious institutions here, you have a government, you have a National Assembly, you have a Council of Justice, you have an Official Council, you have an Official Council that they will not respect the law and they will not be in your hands, and then, when they are invited, they will put their candidates on such an important commission. I don't believe it, and I don't understand it. Until I get an explanation of this amendment or amendment, I do not intend to support it, because this Article 9 is as corrected as the Committee has prepared, proportionately acceptable or at least I do not see any major problems. Also from the explanation of this report, I have not been able to see this change on the committee, including the composition of the Commission, why this change took place, in accordance with the law you had here. You let the official council go, but you replaced it with those non-profits, and I don't know why. But this was obviously done on the committee, but there is no report or report shows why. Because this basic, I believe, unnecessary amendments and supplements would also be appropriate to return to the basic thesis, to the goal of improving the situation in this area. I do not value how much it is that someone will not say that I am talking about one corruption itself, but I am talking about the need to establish all the mechanisms, that it would not be or that it would be prevented by law and that it would be done by those bodies which will then be placed in a transparent manner by the appropriate authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Anderlich! To explain these dilemmas that have arisen to you. NGOs also participated in a committee where we addressed the amendments and prepared a complementary bill. The representative of CNVOS NGOs, Mr Forbicij, explained that NGOs have specific procedures in their internal acts, that they are often candidates for individual candidates on different committees and that they should not worry about the legislative and legal service that has warned about this situation and has also warned after the draft law has been completed. He says that the Legislative and Legal Service has problems with what happens if it does not appoint members of all five proposers within the time limit. You are answering this dilemma of coalition partners appropriately with the amendment's proposal so that there is no delay. Here are some deadlines when these selection procedures are to be carried out, which also protects the integrity of candidates who have applied or have submitted to the call and so on. The call where the two acts go parallel, the call prepared by the Cabinet of the President of the State, and the call for institutions, the National Assembly and earlier to propose the candidate. Mr Anderlich, you will certainly know more than many others because of your long parliamentary history, where some working parliamentary body has been empowered to propose a candidate, and here there may be a working body where the opposition will have a majority that the procedure will not be carried out within the time limit. What does this mean for the work of this selection committee? We have proposed in the basic text that this is not the current Commission for the supervision of public finances, which is run by the opposition every time. And it could happen that one of these, I'm talking mainly about political, less professional bodies, this is the Government or the National Assembly, at some point I wouldn't appoint a candidate. Does this mean that this election commission could not start work? The legal and legal service warns of this, but it has warned through NGOs. Maybe they don't have these procedures. Here we have the assurance of the representative of NGOs that this procedure is very clear with them and that there is no question that they will appoint them. But you made a warning if not for one candidate to be named. In fact, there is now a problem with the selection procedure of Minister Katarina Kresal for the conduct of the selection procedure, because one of the institutions has provided the name of the candidate who is absent and will be absent for a long time. That's probably what we know. The Legal and Legislative Service warns that it would be wise to respond and settle the question of what if one of these fails to give the candidate within the time limit. The Government's assessment is that the amendment proposal is appropriate, so the President of the Republic will once again draw attention to the one who did not put the members on the selection committee within the first deadline. If he does not grant a member within this time limit, the selection committee may do its job so that the President of the Government may decide with the appointed members by then. I think the coalition partners' proposal here is appropriate and the government supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u137	Replica, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u138	Minister, now you have convinced me that I cannot really support this amendment, and I will not. If the Legislative and Legal Service has hinted at non-profit organisations, then we should consider deleting non-profit organisations if it does not provide. But everyone else is obliged by law to do Yes, I read in the papers that there are some problems with another appointment, but you can't prevent any of these situations from happening. [[...]] But if they are obliged to do this to the law I agree that you have changed the Commission for Public Finance Control to the National Assembly, that this is in the corrected text. [[...]] And that's okay. It was not enough, at least in my opinion, and it is not clear from this material why you went instead of the Official Council to a non-profit organisation, even though all of them are dealing with these matters or the Court of Auditors is now gone and they are. But when you talk about ensuring that this Commission can work, if no one proposes, then sanctions must be indicated if someone does not, if they have these powers, what happens next. But it's not that it's simply said that the commission will work in this composition. That's what we call her! That the National Assembly, the Government, the Council of Justice, the Council of Officials will not work in accordance with the laws, I can't imagine. That's why all these explanations, at least in my opinion, are not appropriate. The basic text seems to me quite enough, since it's already a call, and a call back, and so on. However, if we do not have an elementary confidence in the system and in the legislation and that everyone will do their part, then it is all in one way or another without connection. As it is said, not an amendment under number 1, nor an amendment under number 2 or an amendment under number I will not support if there is no further explanation in the debate. Otherwise, I'll be as married as I'll ever be. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u140	I see that there is, however, a voice of reason to be heard, because, in two points, there is obviously a perfect agreement, at least between us and Mr Anderlic, that 95 amendments to 90 articles of the law are not exactly proof of the quality of the law, but quite the opposite. The witness that the marriage was quickly "mixed" together and I just want to know what the cost of this marriage was. But I know who's gonna pay for it. Tax collectors. What is more agreed upon is what Mr Anderlich has pointed out. This is that some articles are unclear and are therefore obviously unconstitutional. This is what I have already warned myself at the outset, if I quote: "This is a marriage full of legally indeterminate and stretching formulations that also allow abuse." That's why I said the law was obviously against this work. However, when I spoke about the powers of the President of the Republic, Mrs Krebs, if you would at least listen now, I spoke of this as being beyond the constitutional framework that was meant by the founder, following the warnings of the constitutional profession. This is that the primary appointments and also the legislative role are played by the National Assembly, while, as you yourself have said, but I have also said this if you would listen to me, Mrs Krebs, the Constitution allows the President of the State to be authorised by law for certain appointments as well, but this has become so extensive that the constitutional profession has therefore begun to warn that this is already an excessive process. There has been more and more of this in recent times, and this has also led to problems. And now we come to the key problem of your words. Not that you said that I'm lying because you didn't listen to me clearly, that I said exactly what I was saying because I was in charge, you could see from the magnetogram, but that you were turning things upside down. Please! I know bad conscience is a bad thing, but you're the one who justified it - now let's go along with your words - three things. That it is written here by the National Assembly among those who appoint members of the selection commission because it allows for a rapid procedure. Earlier, that the others accompanying us would know what was going on, the original proposal said that this was the Commission for the supervision of public finances of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. What's the difference? In this committee, the opposition always has a majority, and in the National Assembly it has a government. And if he wants to achieve an ideological monolith, a government monolith, then the National Assembly is written. This committee is hereby deleted. The excuse is that this is because there could be a blockage here, but it's totally attracted to the hair, which you can see from the next line. The original proposal stated that it also appoints one of the members of the Court of Auditors, where it would certainly not be complicated. This is a speedy court with no complications. And since it's about going from one of her members to another, then there certainly wouldn't be any complications. This is now replaced by a policy of a non-profit organisation of the private sector in the field of anti-corruption, where, of course, there can be complications. This is said to have already clearly put you on a lie. There's no reason for speed. The reason is that he wants to achieve a perfect ideological monolith in this committee. Next thing you know, it's obviously not real. You used the term "extremely plural" when you spoke of this committee. How about this extreme plurality, I just said. It consists of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where the majority of the transitional left, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, where the majority of the transitional left has a non-profit private sector organisation in the field of anti-corruption. This is especially interesting because a little further in the law you will find a dictatorship that this commission will itself finance non-governmental organisations. I believe that non-profit private sector organisations in the field of anti-corruption are meant. That is to say, they will choose for themselves who will finance them themselves. Systemic corruption of "par exellence". Congratulations on this wittyness, at least you're not hiding what it's really about. And then the Council of Justice from among its members and the Council of Officials from among its members. What it's like out there with most of them and who calls them, you probably don't have to lose your word. Well, let's see if this is extremely plural, then I'd rather not comment further. But when it comes to a follow-up procedure, a full appointment is made by the President of the State, i.e. one person. What, then, about the extreme plurality of this procedure? If there was a Parliament, what we were talking about and what we are proposing in the SDS, then there is really plurality here because all the political options are present. However, it is impossible for the President of the country to get around the current and real situation. We only have one president of the state who decorated the former chief of Udba. Then there is unity throughout the European Union, and as far as I know even in the whole world, the democratic world is certain. This is also anti-European, because those who do not know their comrades Slovenia have tried to gain support within socialist internationalism for this action, and especially German social democrats have categorically rejected them that this is incompatible with European values because Europe was created at the fall of the Berlin Wall. The Berlin Wall, however, was founded on stupas, stasis, kgbs and all other secret political police of all kinds and on systematic human rights violations. That's what they say. We can't really talk about pluralism here. More. Then what happened? In support of this action, only the political party, the SD, has been put on the stand, so that there can be no doubt about it here too, it is a direct link and a clearly identifiable exceptional plurality, as the current Minister says, in the appointment process. So why is it really going, and why are you against doing this in Parliament? Yes, the answer is more than obvious. Because - for the same reason you suggest that, for example, when it comes to television, the so-called civil society organisation would play an extremely large role - because you are interested in power without responsibility. If you make an appointment in Parliament, then it is clear who had the majority, who voted in favour, and who is also responsible for the individual human resources solution. Once and for all, if you make a decree and pass it on to someone else, of course, you choose one that is from the same nest. Then you secure the power around the curve and when you say something wrong, you know, it's civil society, it's the president of the country, and we have nothing to do with it, even though it's the exact same identifiable political option. And so in this case, your insistence is clearly merely a reflection of your interest in authority without responsibility. And there's more. There's something else that's even more obvious. For a maximum of two years, four months and ten days, after a quick calculation, we are separated from the next elections when, in the face of the phenomenal, successful achievements of the current government, the power has been changed. You are obviously interested in power without responsibility even after the people have given the mandate of authority to someone else. That's really what this is about. Because these mandates don't overlap, but some are longer, and that's what this whole thing is all about, and that's why it's obviously going on. For this reason, to return this in full within the framework of the Constitution, that every time the power is vested in the people, that things are transparent and plural, ladies and gentlemen, not in words, but in actions in the National Assembly, we propose, and thus we justify our amendment, that this appointment be carried out by the current or future elected State Assembly. But in fact, it's just that, even that argument, that he was now appointed to the National Assembly. What kind of argument is that?Oh, my God! This is quite the opposite of what the Minister justified. Of course he was, but it is clear who has all the responsibility to appoint the person involved in the violation of human rights to a journalist in such a sensitive place. Clearly who has the responsibility - the one he named back then. Most of them, however, had the same one they have today. And that's what you're afraid of, because then the responsibility is obvious. And that's why I'm going back to the basic statement - you're interested in the government without responsibility. That's why the whole law is written the way it is. You are not interested in an effective prosecution of corruption and crime. If you did, then, in the previous mandate, we would have supported the adoption of a new criminal code with all possible means, which really makes it possible to effectively prosecute corruption and crime, but you have consistently opposed it. And that's why things are clear if we just want to see them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. In the debate so far, some have already fallen in the direction of accounting with the current President, with his personality. And I would like to remind you that the law is not written for this President, not for the previous President, not for the later one, but for the later one, but the law is written as the law must be - abstract. And I also wanted to draw attention to this in my introductory debate, and now I will only briefly illustrate it once more. We have an act, an act of appeal and an act of appointment on one side. And he's both done by the president. Who calls for a general call. In this general call, there can be no indication which party should run for office and which party does not. And that political perception is completely meaningless. However, when it comes to the process, i.e. the other side, this process is not carried out by the full and arbitral president, but is first appointed to this commission, in the way that the Government has proposed and I think it has been corrected. Therefore, the President shall obtain for appointment or rejection something which has been assessed by others as appropriate. So it's obvious that this is party-oriented and more political than if the National Assembly were to decide, I think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll start by saying that a lie can also be innocent, but slander is always slanderous. And in the end, I will also highlight the four slanderous slanders that were made in one of the introductions today and later confirmed at the end of this brief discussion. I have to say this. Why do I agree to appoint this commission from the National Assembly premises? because we have been discrediting this independent anti-corruption commission for five years in the National Assembly in all possible ways, which has barely seen the light of the world in 2005. Earlier on 15 years, we had no idea, and the last position came with a bill to regulate these things in the National Assembly, with this committee. And today, when I listen to this discussion, I think it brings me back, so fight so franticly that it would go under someone else's jurisdiction. And I'm going to say something more about this authority of someone else. Indeed, our Constitution does not explicitly foresee or regulate anti-corruption action. This may even be a drawback, but we are a young country, and perhaps with some constitutional change, we will deal with it, and then we will not have these problems that we are discussing today. It is true, however, that this proposal for a law is an upgrade to the five-year experience we have had in the fight against corruption and the elimination of anti-corruption acts. And once again, for five years we have discredited and prevented this independent commission, independent of politics, from strengthening the independent commission in this Slovenian space, and, of course, to try in some way to prevent and reduce corruption and actions. And of course, some of you do it on purpose and mix it with the consequences, when only then do the organs that sanction things that have already happened. And now on the subject of the President of the State. I'll say the exact opposite of what some here claim. Moral and political authority, the largest in this state, is the Institute of the President of the State. The President of the State has been elected by the majority of the electorates and no one, no one, but I will now use this word without, even if we are elected from the people, he has no right to speak so harshly about the institution of this country's greatest moral and political authority. He can think what he wants, but publicly in front of the Slovenian public, this pabering and this slandering of the Institute of the President of the State - this is the President or whoever it is - this is simply not going to work. And those who say today that you're talking about this president, this person, and that the last two weren't, are not true. Look at what you've been saying for the past fifteen years or seventeen years, since 1991, what you've been saying about all the presidents of the country. Please, hold back when the first president of the Presidency took office - and I heard a lot of bad news about in the previous term in this Chamber - you went to kindergarten. You've really been dating, and please don't talk bad about these people. Now, here's the thing about slander. I have written them down here and I must strongly reject them, but they have been spoken by a representative of the Group of Members, the largest group of Members, the opposition, who has acted on behalf of the Group of Members. But listen, I'm not gonna call this a lie because he later confirmed everything in the discussion. That's what I'm going to say. It's just slander. Look what he said. First defamation. That the current position in the previous term as the opposition has prevented the prosecution of corruption. Where did this slander come from? I said before, for four years we fought for this independent body to remain and to appeal that the government of the time that it had in the administration of the country, of course, with its authorities, sanctioned corruption acts that have taken place or things. Uphill, pure defamation, political defamation. Second. That we stopped the truth and tried to prevent things from being resolved through institutional intervention. Perfect defamation. Since when and from where, what are they based on? What are they based on in the previous four-year mandate period for us to do this? And this one's chronic. Transition left butlers. I'm not going to say that someone insults me with this, but we also have the transition right, and we have the transition environment, and we have the transition nebulosis, we have the transition, I don't know what else. We have a lot of things, and a lot of them have had something to do with this transition period. At the previous point, we were talking about eating at school. The figure of 40 million, which appears to indicate that there was a covered diet for two years or three years in the case of patriards. Let him bring her back, who took those 40 million. And the last defamation. That through public action we bought the public's favor so that the institutions would not fight corruption. Where does this slander come from? Once again, the lie can be truly innocent, but every slander is slanderous and these four slanders are slanderous.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Grimes has reached out to the replica. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] All right, does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendments? [[...]] I'm opening the application. The application is in progress. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u146	First, I must say that I am happy for this perfect example of totalitarian reflection when someone takes the right to decide what someone can and should not discuss in the National Assembly. This is certainly a practice that was common 30 years ago. We have also seen something like this in the records of the former Judgment, which we have studied in preparation for one of the extraordinary meetings in the dark mandate. But it's interesting that this is happening now. Certainly every matter and every act, respected by fellow SDs, in a democracy made by a politician, some public person may be subject to public controversy. What's more, it's right that it's a subject of public controversy. I would remind you to sit on thin ice like that when you swore an oath to the Constitutional Court. How many times have we heard you scream: "The decisions of the Constitutional Court are not discussed, they are only enforced! You have no right to debate decisions of the Constitutional Court!" Then I went alone once because I had enough of this in the Kevder, I can go back to looking for that book because luckily we have a good library in the National Assembly, and I brought you a textbook on Constitutional Law, which explicitly states that this is whether there is a public debate in Parliament about the decisions of the Constitutional Court and this is critically debated, even the criterion of democracy of a particular country. In short, it's completely the opposite of what you've been cheating on the public for years and years. Now let's move on. The words you use - although I must say that they are sometimes found, and I also admit this as my own mistake - when we hear again from your kind, how someone lies or slanders, they are inappropriate. But they're contagious, and I admit that. That is why I will use a term that is appropriate in relation to the topic that we are dealing with. I would like to recall that one of the current authorities, specifically one of the ministers, was found to have not been telling the truth when he claimed to the public that he did not have any shares abroad. And it turns out, of course, he has them, and then the President of the Republic said, you know, it's just a mistake, it's just a mistake. All right, well, then it's the President's mistake, so I'm going to talk to you about the President's mistakes. First, if we listened carefully, we would know that I said earlier that you were preventing an effective legal framework to prevent corruption. In doing so, I specifically pointed out your opposition in the last term, when it came not only to the Anti-Corruption Act but especially to the Penal Code. For the Anti-Corruption Act, of course, we all know, can in some way be prevented if it is well placed. But what actually sanctions things is the Penal Code, and that's why things are much more fateful and even more transparent there. And in the Penal Code, which is some acts in the field of corruption that were previously not a crime, only in law that you were explicitly against - all legal remedies - did you select all democratic means to prevent the implementation of that law. Fortunately, however, today is still in place and allows for an effective fight against corruption. If, of course, those with authority actually want it. That's what you say. In this case, you can attribute everything you've attributed to me to yourself. But you've made a mistake after the president, which I hope you'll admit. Second. When you were talking about the Butals of the Transition Left - I don't know where you've heard this - but I used it to be an example, I will quote: "The bill on integrity and the fight against corruption will remain for history as a brilliant example of the continuation of extradition, says cultural tradition, which is a Slovenian national tradition, if you like, of Butalci by the Transition Left. In the fight against corruption, we will corrupt whoever it takes and cost as much as it wants." What was that about? To the fact that you, at the same time in the same law, want to give this law, which we are considering today, a special role to some NGOs. Specifically, in the article we are in, you are talking about those in the field of anti-corruption, and on the other hand you are anti-corruption funding by law. And these same people, who will therefore be financed under this law with taxpayers' money, because it is the taxpayers' money, will choose who will be on the committee and, therefore, who will decide who will choose who will control them. A perfect vicious circle or, if you want, institutionalized systemic corruption. And that's what I've been warning you about. That is why I hope that you will apologize specifically for your second "sacrifice by the President". And the third concerns exactly what I have already explained. That's not what it was, but you're the one who's making the law today. If we read the law carefully, we would know that in the same law you have placed lobbying, lobbying control, fighting corruption, at the same time the same ones you finance as NGOs, you are putting in a systemic role under this law and at the same time calling it the fight against corruption. In fact, everything is confused, forgive the expression, together with various solutions, and such a system will certainly not be effective. We have also tried with the amendments and are still trying to establish a different framework with the amendments, so that at least one part of this law, which this country needs quickly, can be resolved and put into some kind of framework so that it can actually work. For it will not work like this, it is clear, so that it will make it possible to abuse and cause additional legal disorder. And we have proposed that this lobbying should be eliminated in order to create a special law, because it is an extremely difficult topic, which proves extensive lobbying discussions, about all the problems that are taking place, if you want, from the United States of America to some European countries, and in the end it is in Slovenia, there is a public discourse on lobbying for a long time. On the other hand, it is a very sensitive issue because it is a matter of questions which may also be linked to the area of human rights protection. And as a result, some of these powerful formulations, which are in this law, are not appropriate. I even claim, with all the responsibility, that they are obviously unconstitutional, precisely because they are unclear, because they allow for a wide variety of interpretations. And do not say that this is not true, for the legal service of the National Assembly also warned that some of these things may be manifestly unconstitutional. There were not only 95 amendments to this law, which, by the way, has 90 members, which of course testifies to some quality. However, it would not be again about the quality of this quality, but it was also about an extremely long, reasoned, extensive report of the Legal Service of the National Assembly, where they pointed to a further and further dilemma. And even at the committee we were sitting on, the same legal service warned that some of these dilemmas remain unsolvable. And I think it is the one that Anderlič has warned about that is one of them who, in the final stage, allows for a lot of fun interpretation: If the Government appoints one member, then one member is appointed because there is no defined number of these members, then he can make a valid decision with most of his votes. And then where is this strong plurality that the government representative was talking about before? There are things that are not well defined in this law. However, you are in a hurry because you yourself have missed the procedure and this appointment is already taking place under the current law, but this procedure is already out. The President of the State has already published the invitation to tender following the law so far or has already been published in the Official Journal to be precise before the time. That's what they say. You've already missed your hands. And now hurry here, and once again we will meet with this haste in the transitional provisions where you wrote down that this law will be enforced the following day, although there is therefore no material reason, there is no accident, I don't know, a concept or anything like that that would justify, especially in view of that strong resolution that you yourself have adopted here, at our warnings that it is not realistic in terms of the conduct of the current coalition, that these procedures should only be truly an exception. In this case, it is a purely ordinary government shamparija, a late procedure, and you apologize for such a solution. But it's not in that resolution. That's not even right. It's only in your specific behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I would suggest that in this debate we try to focus on what is dark. The last minute of my interlocutor focused on this, the other nine and a half, I'm sorry, no. And even in the previous debate, which also lasted ten minutes, there was not much meat. With regard to all these conclusions and connections, where we have passed 360 degrees, from the beginning to the end of the law, and in the meantime we have touched 20 years of Slovenian history and all its phenomena, I would only comment that this is a more reflection and a mirror of the way of thinking of the one who is showing this way of thinking here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u149	Were you appointed? Yeah. Here you go. You have a replica, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u150	I am merely proposing to my respectable colleague Yuri, with whom we usually understand so well that he can agree on dealing with the issues and limitations just with his client colleague, Mr Kumro, who spoke before me. For everything concerning his words was really about my answer to Mr Kumru.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you. No, there's no replica to the replica. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much. It is best to provoke colleagues and colleagues with their debates to object and then to say that they must not object. I don't think that's nice. But it's possible it's like some kind of speaker lock made by Mr Grims right now. I would like to point out that I am firmly convinced, and that documentation can also be found that my statement in the presentation of the views of the Group of Members is correct, that, in the previous mandate, we have been working, without success, for four years to prevent the then ruling coalition, which is now primarily a party to the SDS, to prevent the anti-corruption commission from functioning as an independent and independent body. You have done your very best to prevent the anti-corruption commission from working. The law has been terminated with your cooperation and with your support. The proposal for our law, which we have drafted, has not been adopted. You were aware that the decisions you had taken were unconstitutional because you had been warned by the Constitutional Court by a decision of the Constitutional Court. It stated explicitly that, while anti-corruption is not the content of the Constitution in its form, it is its content that Slovenia must be a legal state and act corruptly is not in accordance with the functioning of the rule of law, so there is no doubt about it. It's a shame if you try to convince people back because that's the point of us. Indeed, you cannot be convinced that you sincerely wanted anti-corruption action in the previous term. You did not want or prevent institutions that could help. You've been diminishing their formal opportunity or reputation at every moment, or you've been condemning them for specific positions and specific actions. Now we have a marriage that's supposed to settle these things. First of all, the formal filing of the law. Indeed, I also do not like that he had many comments and many amendments, only if we are right already to say that about a quarter of the amendments have been tabled in connection with one of the institutes governed by the law, in the opinion of your party to the SDS, should not be the content of this regulation. This is a lobbying issue and there is nothing about substantive regulation, but a principled approach in which the Government's proponent and the government coalition feel it is right that we are once starting to deal with the lobbying issue. Not to encourage or allow lobbying, but to have it arranged and controlled. Because it is not today, but it works in spite of everything and probably in a way that is not useful for the functioning of the country. Next thing you know, about the amendment. It is essential that we make comparisons as to what is better regulation. You will probably find it difficult to convince the public that better is the arrangement that is simpler and gives all political power to the current majority in the National Assembly and Government. No, that's possible. This is possible, but certainly the National Assembly and the Government are also making political decisions in this case, as soon as possible in political decision-making, a concrete vote is changed. And every decision that has been made even this year and a half, when you gentlemen from the SDS in the opposition, was taken on the Mandate-Election Commission, was, in any case, terribly criticised on your part as a political decision, as an abuse of power, like the abuse of the majority, as a coalition roller, which does not take into account any criminal proposals you make. Such same assessments - how I should believe that they would not be made even if a decision was taken that you are proposing that the National Assembly should normally, by a majority of votes, not otherwise, because it does not know and must not decide, take decisions on the composition of the Anti-Corruption Commission or that body for integrity. Therefore, there is no doubt that this would be more political than the solutions given today. An attempt has been made to involve five different bodies in the preparation of proposals, two of which are political, the National Assembly and the Government, two which represent the following, the second branch of the Authority, namely the Council of Justice and the Council of Officials, and the third are non-profit organisations. Why? I understand, but correct me, Mr Grims, if I am not right that non-profit organisations are not because we will finance them, but because there is a lot of direct public concern in non-profit organisations for legal and non-profit action. They always turn to the public, including Parliament, the Group Government and individuals who point out this, and that is how I understood it. If you think otherwise, you can say, but in any way you should argue. That's why I think the content is closer, the plural path of determination, but it's not ideal. It's not ideal, and I guess I don't know what to do, but it's better than the one you're proposing. Nothing but that the decision is solely and solely by the National Assembly, but you have not proposed that, after the decisions taken in the National Assembly, we should say what I said earlier that we have abused the political power that this ruling coalition has and take a decision that is politically motivated and that whoever is president or vice-president in anti-corruption operations will act only in our favour and to your detriment. That would be some normal resonation of yours, because that's how you resonate. Therefore, I think that whatever the inadequacy may be, the concept, as it was prepared, must at least be supported on my part. Because the concept you're proposing would be significantly worse. But we don't have a third solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I want to correct Mr Grimes or his misleading statements. The law, because of the number of amendments tabled, cannot be regarded as bad. Of this, 33 amendments were made by you. The rest were of a nomotechnic nature, mainly of a nomotechnical nature and in a significant part the content of the law remained the same. You're reading the government's late procedure. Mr. Grimes, first-class presentation. On that day in February, even in due time, when the Government approved the text of the law, you introduced the Law on the Public Properties of Officials, which partly regulated matters governed by government law and thereby prevented the consideration of the government proposal until the procedure for handling your proposal was exhausted. And you knew exactly that this law you're proposing has counter-constitutional solutions. But you stopped us in the process. So much for the late procedure. The appointment procedure, if the parliamentary procedure were to proceed normally without your interference, would be completed by the month of May, i.e. in time for the implementation of the procedures under the new law. As you know, this government must save. We have imposed many new tasks on the anti-corruption Commission, so we have saved resources to finance these tasks in a way that we are now cutting off two functional jobs under the new law and providing resources in this part of the Commission to carry out additional tasks with these savings. And the appointment procedure shall be terminated following the transitional provision of Article 84 as from the date of entry into force of this new law and the procedure shall be followed by a new law. Because we want to save money so that new tasks can be financed from savings. Therefore, in the transitional provisions, we also had to - you know exactly how the proposal to enforce the law was in line with the resolution and because of such conduct and the desire to be appointed by the Commission under the new law, the law enters into force immediately. However, in the transitional provisions for institutions requiring adjustment to the new regime, we have properly regulated transitional periods. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u156	Yeah, two things require an answer. The first concerns deadlines for the adoption of an individual law. Things need to be foreseen in a timely manner, this is the fundamental task of each government. On the other hand, once the matter goes to the National Assembly, there are certainly enough mechanisms under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if we wish or know how to enforce them, and from combining different laws there to extraordinary meetings, if anyone appreciates that this is necessary. So much as an answer, of course, this part doesn't hold. What is second and deserves a clearer answer is this phenomenon, which has recently appeared with the President of the Government, in particular Minister Kresalov, and I am sorry about Minister Krebs, who I appreciate very much, which is this phenomenon of 'government callimism'. Whenever there is a criticism, then a victim begins to make, and I do not know what is wrong with him, and sometimes a person can only smile honestly. And now that explanation was a real smile. You said yourself, there were about 30 amendments, which were of a substantive nature, so they remained nominally technical, which is said to be some 65 amendments to the 90-member law, but nomotechnic at the notice of the legal service. Yeah, what are those warnings? To the fact that something in law did not count as a bad legal rule of law, that the law was wrongly prepared, that it did not conform to the form, the purpose, the purpose, so that it could be adopted in such a form, so that the law was legally weak. Exactly what I was talking about, of course it's possible to deceive someone who doesn't know what nomotechnics mean. It is precisely the nomotechnics that vaguely stated in the law that something is not legally well defined. And the vast majority of these amendments, virtually all of which have been made by the coalition, are of such nature as to correct legal errors, weaknesses, shortcomings, ambiguities in this basic proposal. But some, unfortunately, still remain. And for some of these - one of them, for example, was also presented by colleague Anderlič - I personally believe that they are also constitutionally controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, there in the lobby I have already told you that you are one of the best in what you would call folklore village society, and I appreciate you very much. Seriously, I also tell you in public, sometimes I've told you outside. But look, it's all true with what you said earlier that the opposition beat you to some kind of marriage. But let's see another piece of information. Last June, I got the first draft of this bill on the table. In your government program, this should be adopted, as I recall, last year. So now, on behalf of the opposition as well, we can say that because you didn't do it, but we filed it in February. So that's about it, not roughly, exactly. But look now at all the 92-t articles to write 94 amendments, we can't call that a good law. I could still understand if the opposition had written these amendments, but those amendments were by the opposition's 40th, all the others up to 112 that came to the last reading, but they were coalition. Well, that's not a good law. There's no way we can call it that. Now that's what I have to say. At the time when we discussed the amendments on the Committee, i.e. when I received the request of the Really Group to address this at an urgent meeting, I also called this urgent meeting before the deadline imposed on me by the Rules of Procedure to accommodate you, I will say that this matter goes through. However, you know for yourself that it was not possible in two hours, that is 120 minutes, to deal with 112 amendments. Then your fellow Members of the Group of Ambassadors, in fact, accused me twice in writing of delaying the procedure. Which is not true, I know that Mr Kek signed this with a heavy hand, because there was no President, the leaders of the parliamentary group, but such procedures are not correct, indeed. Continue to the content. Look, in this country we call - these commissions don't convince me anymore. I still believed that when the President started talking about that Kas, how things would be different now, even though I might have been a little naive. By the way, all those cash registers had collapsed after two months, and we've all seen that. They're not working anymore. This commission is no longer operational. The matter in Parliament is clearer to me. He who appoints him assumes responsibility, which is that half of Parliament or that half of Parliament tomorrow. I don't know, I don't care, but the responsibility is clear. Look at these committees, we have now, I'm going to count three commissions now, and today we're talking about the fourth commission I'm going to tell you about two, three coming. We've already had these different commissions, the first was the Police Act. What was the result? It's nothing! The candidate, who was known before the law and before the appointment of all the commissions, became director because this was agreed upon. I'm not gonna say it was agreed at the CK, because it's gonna be a joke, I don't want to be offensive, but it was agreed. Then. We have a national investigative office, agreed on who will be the director, and then we change the law and make a nice commission to do this job for us. Look, not like that, you've won the election, you've won the election, you say, "We want this, and we want this, and we want you to do it freely. Not to hide behind a commission, and for every slightly more important boss in this country we're already calling a commission. We're already prescribing in the law a commission that is "kobayagi" independent. She's not independent, because you're going to name or name more or less members of this committee and she can't be independent. And that's why you're hiding it. Mask down and say it, and take responsibility for it. This is a better option, at least in my opinion. So this law is the third case when we call a commission, which then you can hide behind and say, "This is the president of the country, and this is not us. Aren't we beautiful? No, take responsibility for the decision. What else is coming? The D.A. Act is coming. We're gonna name the D.A.'s Council, you're gonna name the D.A.'s Council, most of it's gonna have a minister. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Yeah, and what's gonna happen? [[...]] It won't be Parliament's fault, it won't be the minister's fault, but it will be the independent commission that will head Mrs. Brezigar's. Don't do that. There is another law coming, and it is also a prosecutor's law that will end a group of prosecutors in Ljubljana at the Supreme Prosecutor's Office because you don't like it. You'll be appointing new ones to the district attorney's office, that's what the bill says. What was I trying to explain?Oh, my God! Take responsibility, people have trusted you, you are responsible, you decide, even if you receive criticism. But it's only right that you take that responsibility. You said you'd work better and run this country better. Come on! I don't know why we wouldn't do that. There are also a few matters with this committee that we call it today. I told you last time that this would be Mr Kečanovic, because this is agreed upon. A service for the Secretary of State of the Interior is now being sought, this is Mr Klemenčič, and you will announce it, possibly as reported by the media, as an independent successor to Mr Kos. Yeah, well, we all know who he is. Ten years of LDS ideology, but he's not a member. This is going to be an independent expert now, and don't paint me. Don't paint me. That's what's wrong. Someone used to say, "Critique the forerunner," that is, Mr. Grimes, and he said that once he was lying, and I don't know what he was doing, but at the same time, he said that 40 million people counted for Patrio went somewhere. Yeah, where?Oh, my God! Where, then, is there an appeal?Oh, my God! No complaints. I don't know if it would be an indictment. I don't know you. All I know is a complaint against an environmental minister who said he did something wrong. Well, that's a lie after you're talking about some lies on this side. That's it, I'll say, for a little while. I have no intention of making any more calls. As for the president of the country - yes, the moral and political authority, yes, on the day of the election it also became so, because so many and so many people in this country voted in favour of him and he received this majority and confidence. But I am deeply convinced that I should also behave accordingly, be the president of all citizens, but at least mine is not. He doesn't represent me. I didn't vote him or do anything that I expected him to do. But, like me, it's probably 50% today, at least I think. So this authority that he got, I agree that he got it, and he spends it himself, and he spends it enormously every day more. And, Madam Minister, look again when you're going to appoint a new director, see how much they're paying for those premises. In fact, there are the most expensive rental places where this commission is operating today. It would be much cheaper, at least 5 euros cheaper to get space in, as it were, the Millennium Tower in Vienna. It's cheaper there for 5 euros, it's cheaper there for 5 euros, so we'll take a look at it. And look at the square of one employee, and maybe there'll be some government service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I return my compliments, Mr. Gorenak. There's only one wrong statement I'd like to disprove. The Human Resources Accreditation Councils - you said that the government had demolished them and that they were no longer operational. It is misleading to think that the purpose of the establishment of the Human Resources Accreditation Councils, i.e. the reduction of the KAS, was to ensure that the political authorities and the Government that is running for office, where the majority state is the owner, are either public funds or public institutions, so as not to be political and thus avoid liability. That's not true. The Human Resources Accreditation Councils are operational. KAS have the power of the Government to check, at the invitation of the notified candidates for individual membership in the supervisory authorities, the sacred institutions, to make a list of suitable candidates and the departmental minister from this selection then to propose to the Government for appointment, even in an important part of the politically compatible representative from this list. The point is that these are professional candidates, and KAS are still doing their job seriously. And the government hopes and believes that the candidates whose recruitment is then before it are humanely qualified to perform the tasks entrusted to them on behalf of the founder in these bodies. However, the government indirectly exercises important management and control functions through these people. So we hope that you will remain in the future. In doing so, however, the Government, as the founder of its responsibility, cannot in any way relieve itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening applications. Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When a person listens to this debate, it is difficult to get rid of the feeling that it is again a debate on "one issue", that is to say, to reduce everything to ideological judgment, that in the current draft or current proposal of Article 9 the Commission is appointed on a consistent path, which applies to a number of appointments in that country. And if we sum up and focus on the point, the SDS proposes to withdraw the President of the Republic from this process. The whole debate wants to prove the anonymity they have up to the current President of the Republic, although this is the only policy that has been elected directly in the direct elections. And if he represents anyone, he represents all citizens and citizens. In the past, we have had much to do with the opposition's observations that we are late in the design of such systems and such mechanisms of decision-making and appointment, which should ensure transparency, which should ensure the non-corruptive operation of appointment, and which should also ensure the sustainability of a system that is based on ethical principles that foster such law. And when it comes to the appointment of this commission, it is complicated where it is always complicated, and it is very clear that the alleged ideological side of this representative of the country, who is also supposed to propose candidates for the Commission's President, is the subject of the appointment of this commission. Well, that's all it's about. And we are discussing hours and hours on this without specifically telling or hearing from the opposition how much better the appointment system would be. They proposed an amendment that in fact increases the opacity of appointment. Yes, this amendment of yours is so imprecise, incomprehensible, it would be compared to an attempt now to have constitutional judges and all the other officials, now proposed by the President of the Republic and endorsed by the National Assembly, effectively annulled. If you applied this logic, you should change the whole system and actually take away a lot of jurisdiction from the President of the Republic. Why? Because you don't like it because you don't like it, or what Mr Ertle has done - we've heard it today, too, and it seems to me that it's not at the level of some kind of professional debate. Mr. Gorenak, you're looking at me strangely, I wasn't aiming at you, but at your colleague's debate. I call on colleagues and colleagues to continue to try to focus on what is crucial and to break into the next article, because this is a good law, which is a law that finally responds to many expectations, including the initiatives and suggestions that we have received from the opposition when it wanted to beat the right and want to spread partial solutions. Now we have this comprehensive law that we've been waiting for, which we've also heard criticism several times, which we've been hearing about, to keep the coalition from thinking seriously about this law. We have him here today, and we have a lot of amendments. We have stopped at this, which is highly ideologically coloured, again, and this does not contribute to the sobriety of the debate. That's why I hope to get to the next article as soon as possible. On this point, I cannot support the SDS proposal, I will remain with Article 9, which is foreseen by the bill or the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I did not intend to make another call under this Article 9 and the amendment that we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, but I decided that there was something else to say after I had listened to Mr Kumr's debate. Mr Kumer said several times in his debate that, above all, on this side of the Chamber, some defamation should also be made at the expense of the institution of the President of the State and that, as a member of the National Assembly, I have spoken ill of the institution of the President of the State. I just can't agree to this on my own. I didn't say anything bad about the institution of the President of the State. I respect the institution of the President of the State. But there's a problem somewhere else. I have merely said that the President of the State, who indeed is, also represents the institution of the President of the State in person, a politically defined person and as such cannot, in my opinion, appoint or be a decisive factor in who will be the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission or who will be the Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, in particular if we are to step on the fingers of those engaged in corruption and clientelism in this country. Unfortunately, this is not possible. I don't understand what I'm supposed to say about the institution or the President of the country on my own. In my debate alone, I have said that both Mr Drnovšek and Mr Kučan have never been such a openly intense cheerleader to a particular party or political option in their careers as president of the country. But this, I'm sorry, is no slander, nor is there any foul talk. I just said what my opinion was like as a member of the National Assembly. So, we all knew how the presidents, the former presidents, were defined, but when they needed to be held back, they abstained. So they acted politically, wisely, and wisely. This President of the country, however, defined himself at a time when he should not have been identified, particularly in the case of the Golobic affair. That is why I say that we will have great problems here, given that the President of the State has such power in the composition of this commission or in the appointment of either the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission or the Vice-Presidents. And once again, I repeat, no one will convince me that such a president of the country, when appointing someone, will appoint him on the basis of expertise and appropriateness and not on the basis of political affiliation or definition. And then I seriously wonder how these people are going to prosecute corruption in those people who are close to the circle of the president of the country or the left political options. That's the problem. Otherwise, I personally respect the institution of the President of the State, but I have highlighted certain dilemmas, because as a member of the National Assembly, I can also think critically about the President of the State. I know he's been elected, but that doesn't give him the right, even if he's been elected with such a percentage that after his election he's clearly party-defined. And that's the problem with the president of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, she's not here by any chance. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support the law and the amendment of the coalition to this article. By the way - a nice greeting to the Minister - I didn't see it in the back. In general, I want to say that the law, however, is ready for my taste in order to resolve the issue it wants to cover with this. This article also refers to the appointment of a President and a Deputy Commission. And I have no objection to the fact that the President of the State, who is precisely the last to be denied by some, would say, the legitimacy of his conduct, would very rightly propose to the Constitutional Judges and so on, all those candidates who, after his office, propose to the National Assembly for admission. There's no problem with that. As for the assessment that the President was supposed to define himself as a party, I did not notice any such thing. The fact that he was attacked even by a constitutional charge solely because of one medal which, under all the rules of the President of the State, he could, by his decision, be given by the President of the State, is not enough for such severe assessments and for such a serious attempt to degrade the institution that the current President of the Republic is on constitutional charges solely because of the fact that the other perceptions were not practical and in fact. And the attitude that was discussed to the institutes proved to be when you remained firm on the ground, in the seats when he arrived at the hall at the time. This was the attitude towards the institution because the President of the Republic came to the hall. That attitude of yours, it was substantive, but then it was up to you to make a constitutional accusation. So this is a difference that you have understood and presented to the public in your own way. In short, I cannot support an amendment that changes the proposaler's intention that the President of the Republic here is the one who will propose, of course, through an appropriate procedure, I also believe in the preliminary consultation for this choice, as he did in all other cases. I think that this solution is good, better than the existing ways of appointing the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, and that the President of the Republic will also justify this action when the law is in force and when it is necessary to bring it to an end. However, I will support the amendments prepared by the coalition, because they are improving, in particular, the nominally poorly prepared law, but here goes the main responsibility of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because I do not know that there would be significant changes from the previous authorities forward, which means that the old team for the new government has drawn up such a bad law that then our legislative and legal service has practically destroyed it in the nomotechic sense and has prepared appropriate proposals for amendments. So here I have no bad conscience and would not accuse the Minister of ill-prepared marriage. The government has its own filter, if it does not work, is the responsibility of the Government, which has not replaced or driven anyone home there because it is working badly, and has put people who would thoroughly review the law before the government sends it into parliamentary procedure. Then our legislative and legal service could only have what could possibly be overlooked, repaired or complemented, but not that it had to do all the work on a new and from the beginning, and not to say, the last detail that can be seen from the plane, which has now happened in this law. Here, of course, the problem is that we have courageously retained all the previous people, even where they are not doing well and where they are guessing that we could always launch the obvious, that this power is deplorable, but in fact it has been tolerant of people who have remained in individual positions, and now this. Thank you very much. I will oppose this amendment of the SDS and support the other amendments of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposed amendment. But I will uphold the law. And I will only support him for one reason because he is good because the Ministry of Irma Pavlinič Krebs has prepared a good proposal for the law. And when you ask yourself where is the right of the President of the Republic to define certain things, it is the least you can tell him to define himself for the Golobic affair. For this was not the affair of Golobič because of the innocuousness of Minister Golobič; but it was an affair, because you had wronged him for the affair, because it took him six months to attend as an investigator the commission of inquiry, which investigates him, to answer questions and accusations, which took six months to fall after each other. In addition to Article 9, the anti-corruption clause is an important novelty of this law. The government itself explains it very precisely, so it is best that I quote. "As the public sector manages and disposes of public funds and public property, it is expected that a high level of due diligence is required in such conduct and that the applicant is convinced that the public property in question must be protected in particular in the conclusion of transactions which affect the level and usefulness of the use of the funds mentioned above. Therefore, in this Article, the law provides for an obligation, a mandatory corresponding inclusion of the anti-corruption clause and a sanction for the nullity of the contract under the following conditions. Where a contract concluded in the first paragraph of this Article is a method, i.e. that a contract in respect of which, on behalf and at the expense of another Contracting Party, a representative or an intermediary of a public sector body or organisation has promised, has offered or has given any benefit to the conclusion of a business, or that it would have been concluded under more favourable conditions or for the omission of the obligation to control the performance of a contractual obligation or for other conduct, or for the suspension that certain consequences have occurred in the same paragraph, so that property damage has been caused to the public sector body or to the organisation of the public sector, the other Contracting Party and its associated persons have benefited from it. In the event of the exercise of the facts described in the same paragraph, in so doing, that the damage occurred and that the unlawful and unlawful abuse of the laws involved allows the parties to include in the contract also other provisions for the prevention of corruption or other business which would be contrary to moral or public policy, not only restricting the law to domestic suppliers and sellers of goods and services and the contractor of works, but also to foreign parties acting as other contracting parties in the above mentioned, the characteristics of the seller, seller, contractor and the like." In this article, and also in 9, things are precisely defined and the explanation given by the Ministry of Public Administration is the reason why I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u169	Mr. Campus, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u170	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the background document. I will also support the amendments of the coalition, not Article 9 of the SDS. It is true, however, that my personal opinion is that, of course, this law is a step forward or an upgrade to the work of the Commission which I consider to be good, even better. The law also responds to new social captures, conditions and ensures greater transparency of public authorities and probably also contributes to greater prevention of corruption in Slovenia. If you all had a lot to say about our President, it is also one of those who proposes, I must say that I am disappointed at how you all say in one voice how deeply you respect the President, of course, on the basis of what he proposes and you do not trust him. I'm surprised. That kind of theory with me, of course, doesn't work together. It is good that the President of the Commission is actually appointed President of the State. The oversight function continues to be exercised by the National Assembly, which I am particularly pleased to be on this committee. The law on the prevention of corruption and, of course, when and when do we not know if we are going in which direction, so that these things will also be clearer. It is excellent that the tasks of the Commission, the powers of the Commission, the way it operates are also clearly defined. It is true, however, that certain tasks, such as issuing principled opinions, are preserved. I am particularly surprised at this, i.e. the news, that the draft has been sent to a person or organisation, that the introduction of the anti-corruption clause is also needed in contracts. This also leads to the fact that we should no longer be dealing with the discovery of lies to prosecute the hens of thieves, but I still expect that this is or that major crimes are hidden behind corruption. Even major crimes such as, for example, if the anti-corruption clause in the Patria Treaty were to be the same as would be necessary, then this matter would probably be at an end. [[The ad in the hall.]] Yes, fellows, there is something you need to understand that something is true: it is undeniably found that the commission money in the Patria affair has been paid. Unquestionably, it has been found that the money has been paid. Of course, but it has not yet been proven or investigated as to who got it. And even if I estimate that one of the complaints will soon come, which will be launched, as usual, against an unknown perpetrator. It is also true that, on the other hand, today I feel things that I have listened to mainly by the SDS - I must say for the first time today - that all these things go hand in hand, that everything is preordained, that everything is arranged. I don't know if it was possible in the previous government. At this point, I believe that everyone will be named, as the law says, that the principles will be respected, that things will go in the way we all want, and that they will also be taken out of this, not just blah blah blah blah. To get him out of this, everyone wants to. So, not just us in Parliament, but mainly citizens and citizens. I am particularly happy about what also comes out as news, which is the introduction of standards or the protection of a notifier, which has not been established so far. Then the matter goes on, it is mandatory to draw up an integrity plan. For the first time, we are dealing with the regulation of lobbying or lobbyists, which is also a step forward. And I am particularly pleased that we have been unanimous for the first time, which is not insignificant - so I am pleased that the State Council has finally given a positive opinion, so I hope that today this basic document will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Check-ins are on the move. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the amendment we have proposed, which concerns the appointment of the Commission, is correct. It is made in accordance with all legal standards and brings about a significant change in this area. I think that the President of the Republic is an institution, but above all we should strive for this to be a truly representative institution. I do not think there is any need for the President of the Republic to become part of the executive power in more and more cases. It is said that he assumes certain executive tasks, proposes more and more persons to different functions and so on. I think that the President of the Republic should be faced with such attempts, especially because it is an individual function, and because it is also usually a highly defined person for the Presidents of the Republic, also a politically defined person, to protect ourselves from this. I think it is a much better solution for officials to be appointed by the actual body, which is also politically composed, and this is the National Assembly. I think it is particularly important, because in this case, the anti-corruption commission also acts as a judicial branch of authorities, arbitrates as to whether something has actually happened in some proceedings, and in this case, it also judges. That is to say, expressed some principled opinion, position or anything, and thus, in fact, also in some way defines its decision on certain specific cases. We are also talking about procedures against individuals in this case. And from this point of view, it also seems very important to me that those appointed to this commission and acting on one, I will say, a similar analogous way to the arbitrators, such as a judicial branch of authorities with which they interfere in these matters, in some individual activity, that these persons will also swear to act in their function by respecting the Constitution, the law, in order to respect the interests of the common good before private interests. It seems very important to me in such functions, as it does to the Ombudsman or to the judges and so on. In short, I also place a great deal of emphasis on this work, which concerns making a public oath to act accordingly. In fact, with the President of the Republic, who is an individual function, we are never quite clear when he is dealing with some sort of first-class conduct and when it comes to some secondary conduct and position in these procedures. We already have practice here, so in two, three years, we have encountered many cases where there have been assessments of the position of first-class and second-classness. These were defined as first-class matters and some, in our view, even more difficult than second-class ones. And I wouldn't really leave it that way. We also have relatively many problems with various human resources paradigms in practice so far, with different human resources principles, even in specific cases of the Government. The President of the Government has repeatedly said that these new staff appointments will take place through Kasov, that this will not take place and will not take place without difficulties and that it will take time to do so, but that much time has passed, and that procedures still run in some inappropriate way, still passing, still so as to be subjective, not collective choice, that the Kassi are more or less in many cases also to some institutions that serve only the verification of certain personal decisions at other levels. As for this law on integrity, however, I also find a major dilemma in the fact that the public is informed more quickly and better than the National Assembly, which is supposed to be a supervisory institution over the work of this commission or which this commission is supposed to report once a year. The public shall inform the Commission by means of the publication of its principles, opinions, opinions and decisions on the meetings and their minutes, and at such meetings shall invite representatives and so on, while in the following article this Commission shall report to the National Assembly. What, though, is the report? It shall report without giving any information on the content and volume of work, then report on its conclusions and so on. In short, I note that this reporting to the National Assembly, which is supposed to have a supervisory function in this part, is very poor and has been entirely different in its current cases. We now have the possibility that the work-monitoring committee, the anti-corruption commission, can deal with the work of this commission at least once a month, get to know these things. After this new law, however, it is only once a year an obligation for the Commission to draw up a report by 31 May for the current year. In short, after five months, it's the deadline for notices. I do not think that this is appropriate if we really want to work on doing or wanting to do something important in the area of corruption - once a year until May next year. In this case, even in the current case, when we had and with the help of the coalition, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission, which oversees the work of the Kosovo Commission, was also required to report to the National Assembly Commission. But even though the President of the existing Kosovo Commission has been defeated before the Constitutional Court twice, he does not wish to do so. How, for example, will he deal with this report once a year at the National Assembly? In what way? In fact, I believe that transparency, transparency in this area are also the responsibility of those we will deal with and that it is crucial if we are to seriously engage in some systemic work in the prevention of corruption, clientism and similar matters. I don't think there's a proper transition between the old and the new law. In fact, there's no record of what's going to happen to the things that are now under way, and that's not what it says. For the new Commission may decide to stop the proceedings, for example in the case of Jankovic, in the case of other matters which are now in the process. And perhaps there is a reason for this change in this area too - that certain matters with the new commission, with the new law, would be closed and terminated in a harmless manner. I think this is also one of the reasons why it is so urgent and regulated in this area. And when that can happen, I'm talking about this potential option, then the state-level committee, which is supervisory, and the National Assembly, as an institution over this commission, which needs to be reported to it, will not actually be able to ask any questions about specific matters, as it says, as far as reporting to the National Assembly is concerned. Nothing at all. Article 20 of this Law, which you have submitted, is quite clear. There is no possibility of specific matters, as you cannot request information that would allow the identification of the natural or legal persons concerned. This is explicitly stated in Article 20 of this Law. And I don't think it's an accident. For the transition with the reorganisation of the Commission, with the new form of work of the Commission, with new powers, will also lead to an assessment of these procedures, which are already on this committee. And a lot of what's problematic about the current coalition, and we know that a lot of these things, already from these reports, are going to be able to be re-judged, decided and issued, completed, and the stories will be over. In view of how these things are taking place in the present tense, this is probably a very likely scenario. And all those who work and who follow and decide to amend legislation, to regulate individual areas also on these matters should keep very good accounts. And such combinations, which are recorded in this new law, make it possible for those who read it to think in this way. And the basis is actually exactly in the individual solutions of the law. However, when we link this series of articles to each other, we try to put a matter together, for example, to be mounted in Article 1 and to see how it can be concluded in the end and what it can be about, as a Member, as someone who is also responsible for policy-making in specific areas, you ask, then you see that these stories can no longer be brought into the National Assembly. Not after formal salary through the Commission's report, but in any other way, to ask in any way or perhaps to request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to address policy in a particular area. When we requested this in the current term several times, it happened every time that these key topics were blocked, that extraordinary meetings were not convened, and we were unable to do so, these matters, which burden the coalition that burden individuals, could not even be opened. The President of the National Assembly concluded the story here, irrespective of all the provisions of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and other sectoral laws. In short, I propose to the coalition, which today will also decide on these amendments to be cautious about what or which amendments it will not support. The fact that some of our amendments will not be supported will also define the conduct of the Commission, including policy planning in this area. Nor will it be possible to ask why someone who has done a lot of pork is not in the process, but someone who may have forgotten to pay a bill will be in a serious misdemeanor and you will not be able to do anything about it, nor will you do anything about it. But someone who is involved in millions or a hundred million things will be formally closed, and this case is not possible and will not even be debated. I am very interested when we consider the report, Madam Minister, what we will be able to adopt in this report - positions, proposals, instructions for the conduct of the competent authorities, etc. In short, we do not have any serious provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to deal with this report. In the case of the Ombudsman, we have some issues when we consider this report, obviously only a general conclusion, the National Assembly has come to a knowledge of some principled story and stop. None of this will be possible to ask and no binding matters will be possible to propose, not to the Government or to anyone else. And I think that this law would actually have to be rejected and complemented with these and many other concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. There are only two explanations to Mr. Tank. Article 84 responds to your fear of what will happen to the proceedings. It is very clear that procedures initiated under the Anti-Corruption Act are concluded in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act. Which means that, as usual, for reasons of predictability, it is, of course, processed according to the old rules. The issue of the powers given by this law to the Commission to prevent corruption. We wanted to be very precise in this regulation, because it is also an intervention in the position of officials, we were extremely interested in strengthening the preventive task and preventive functions of this commission to prevent corruption. Therefore, in Article 13, which has so far greatly affected many officials, since, if anything, Kosovo's anti-corruption commission has been independent in this mandate, so that, in fact, no authority likes it, the officials of all kinds of authorities were, in the public opinion, more than not, given the trust it enjoys. So the problem is also that the National Assembly is 90 supervised. The government is 18 supervised. And the question when considering the report, that these same supervisors should also direct what this independent body should continue to do in order to exercise less control, is also assessed by the standards of international acts ratified and guided by us, an unrecommended practice. Any body that is supervised should be excluded from this as much as possible. In fact, this law, which calls for the self-limitation of all kinds of authority, namely, legislative, enforcement and judicial, is in the process of executing this mandate entrusted to us by the electorate. And we're all the same, you'd say, vulnerable to temptations of power that functions that we're either elected or appointed to carry by ourselves. Therefore, it does not matter which organ it is and which type of official is who. And because of this, even because of the sensitivity of these positions, we are, according to the practice that was, Article 13 - this is the Commission's principle opinion, which, by the way, was also now, Mr Tanko, without the personal data of the body that was being investigated or the individual official. For someone to identify himself, it could have been incontrovertible because it was a matter of individual conduct, who anonymously reported to the Kosovo Commission, also sent this to the media, and it was not difficult then with the principle opinion, which was, without personal data, of course, to make a cross-comparison and also to reach the official who had been treated or the body whose practice had been verified. This standard of secrecy remains the same now, the added value is that the examiner, authority or official, may respond to the draft opinion before it becomes public. Thus, a public opinion of principle has been published by the Anti-Corruption Commission and the investigator has been made known at the same time as the public. This has been assessed without personal data, but it is now possible for the examiner to respond to some kind of response to the report, also to say what he will do or agree to do, similar to that of the Court of Auditors. Here we also wanted to protect the integrity of investigators at a point where there could be a conflict. And only after this deadline has expired when someone has the right and that or does not give his response report can the Commission present this opinion to the public on a certain course of action without identification data. However, the public is, of course, an important element affecting the integrity of public authorities, it is undeniable. And to the Commission important and, you could say, the only ally in relation to all kinds of public authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. I must say that the little barbecue I had at my disposal in this debate was taken from me by the Minister, who has now interpreted certain arguments so calmly and rigorously. So I'm going to try to be pretty reasoned, too. But I cannot help but admit that today I have heard so much nonsense in this debate that man is simply very difficult to digest, but I will still try to do my best to say what I do not agree with in this debate at this time. Of course, I cannot support this amendment of the SDS to Article 9, because it is totally unacceptable to me. The argument that has also been cited here in favour of this amendment is, of course, a kind of achievement on how to present things completely wrong and how to mislead the public, who may be following us if they may not have completely given up. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with what my colleague, Franco Žnidaršič, said earlier that it is unacceptable to report to this bill that he is now accompanied by this procedure with so many amendments. Why? Because I shouldn't have come so nomotechically ill-prepared in Parliament at all. And I have often wondered in other laws how it is possible for governments to come with such bad texts of laws. Isn't there, however, a government service for legislation that should prevent such bad bills from coming to Parliament? Who is responsible for such bad laws coming to Parliament? And if we take a closer look at this situation, we see that this is still the same job that was already in the previous government, at least the forehead, the top of this job is the same. I also very often wonder what they are actually doing in the National Assembly when they usually come to meetings of working bodies and say, we fully agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and we have nothing to add to that. Very interesting. Where have they been so far? What have they been doing so far? But that's not the question I'm supposed to be dealing with. This is probably the question, the governments themselves and those who say that even if they do bad things, but because they are not ours, we must not touch them and let them rest there in peace until the next elections. That's one thing. Second thing. We know that we are signatories to various conventions concerning the organisation of the fight against corruption in the country. We have specifically ratified the United Nations Convention, such as the Council of Europe Convention, of course. The essence of both conventions is that the body concerned with combating corruption and preventing corruption in a country must be independent, in particular politically independent, independent and professional. And of course, if we have taken this matter seriously when we have ratified these conventions, then we must also, when we draft this law, come from these assumptions, how to reach a commission that will actually be politically impartial, which will also be provided by the state with sufficient expertise and resources to enable it to be able to be professionally qualified. And from this point of view and in view of the experience so far, I would say that I see it right to appoint or propose to appoint the main players of these Commission members, in particular the President of the Commission, the President of the State. Some have now objected here from the opposition, although it is true that our President of the Republic received very high support in the last elections when he was elected President of the Republic, but we already know who he is. And since we know who he is, he's not the one who would appoint the chairman of the commission. It's a very interesting thing. Of course, let's say that I am forgiven, the Attorney-General was the Minister of Justice in a former Bajuk government, she has run for office in the SDS list, she has run for president of the state with the support of the SDS. All this is fine, all this is legitimate, and all this is fine. And because of who you can tell her whose it is. No, we don't know whose it is. But look at him, Mr Klemenčič was not a member of the LDS, but it is known that he has been working for the LDS for 10 years and therefore knows who he is, and it is known that he will run for President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. I don't know, it's good, but I believe there's a lot of people not yet. But some people here always know who's going to run for office, and more. They know who's going to be appointed to that function. But it's the privilege of those who know everything, and that's where I don't personally judge, far from it. The statement was: "It is finally intended to become a representative function of the President." Yes, hello?Oh, my God! What kind of function is that? It is clear from our Constitution that the presidency of the Republic is primarily representative. It is so very representative that, when we were writing the Constitution in 1991, Demos' government was working hard, realizing that Mr Kučan, the next first President of the Republic, would not actually have anything to say. But they all agreed that the ficus was supposed to have a secretary, which is more of a question. This is also the case with the Constitution. And now to report to this President, who, according to the same stop, is the President of the Republic, that he is carrying out some executive, political activities that he is not doing, seems to me to be simply a really screwed-up thing. But what do we offer in return, what does the SDS Amendment offer in return? The Commission of the National Assembly for Election Affairs is supposed to be the one with scissors and canvas in hand to reach this anti-corruption commission. And a special role should be played by the anti-corruption commission. Of course, we know that this committee of the National Council against Corruption is composed of the majority of the opposition. We also know that a new anti-corruption commission will be appointed during this mandate. But it doesn't matter. That we have there - let me be forgiven again, please - someone who is the chairman of this commission, who does not pay the bills he spoke of - I guess I don't know, argue anything - Mr Tanko just now, and who also doesn't understand that if he wants to pass the German language, he has to pass the exam himself. The wrong world, someone could say on the basis of all this. All these arguments in this debate in the National Assembly are accompanied by the words, czech, President of the Anti-Corruption Commission or the Commission itself is in fact a judicial body of some kind, and this President should swear in a similar manner as the sworn judge or the Ombudsman, in fact it is a comparable role with the judge and the Ombudsman. For God's sake, whoever says that and is a Member of the National Assembly shows that it really doesn't matter what constitutional arrangements we actually have in Slovenia. But it doesn't matter what's true, what's not true, what's holding, what's not holding. It is important to keep repeating some things and some topics about first-class, second-class activities and themes and to keep on associating with something that people will understand and will already realize that what the coalition is proposing is bad, but what we are saying is the only saving and only good. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it's appropriate for us to talk in this way in the National Assembly, because in my opinion we take time and money to all, even God. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The word is Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course I will vote against the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There has already been a debate on the Committee, which has also been held today in this House, but some have been more zealous today and have had more to say about the President of the Republic than on the Committee itself. I do not agree to this amendment because of the argument that was given today, as already mentioned by my colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler, "because we know whose president he is because we know whose option he belongs to because we know how to decide, because we know how he was elected, with the support of which parties, because we know that he is politically defined." That's not an argument for me. Since the proposal submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this proposal is to forward the proposal to the National Assembly for a decision by the State Election Commission of the National Assembly. This one is politically undecided. President Dušan Kumer, inside we are Members of the coalition, who have a majority, and we are all politically undecided. That would be a politically undecided decision and a choice. I agree, your argument is more than correct. Another time. This President of the Republic introduced one practice called "consultation with parliamentary groups". And I know that this President of the Republic is doing this practice, as far as I know, which he is consistently carrying out. And at these consultations, I am sure that all the Members' groups, including the SDS Group, are invited. And I believe that, if possible, the President shall consult representatives of the parliamentary groups. And I must say that, as a member of the Mandate-Election Commission, I have not noticed any bitter opposition to the proposals coming from the President of the Republic to this Parliament. I do not know now, perhaps the President is making good reasoned proposals or the opposition has no arguments against this proposal. As far as his definitions are concerned, it was said that his problem was that the President of the Republic had been identified when he should not have been identified. I am sorry, but there is no Member of Parliament in this House and there is no Member who would allow or allow the President of the Republic when the President of the Republic could be defined to any subject. And he was told, it was obvious to him that he favored this authority, this government. I am very closely following the statements made by the President of the Republic, and I must say that I have repeatedly observed that he also has a critical argument at the expense of this government. You probably overheard it, missed it, deliberately forgot some of it, probably. And that, too. Names. I have already heard from the opposition on the Committee on Internal Policy who will be the new President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. That's already known. After all, then, all the debates today are entirely over, because the opposition already knows, and I doubt that, given all the accusations and all the arguments you have put on the table, there will be some crazy demand that a large number of people want to be president of the anti-corruption commission in Slovenia. I really doubt it. After all that has already been said in public about this commission and in most cases unjustly, I doubt that people would be in exactly the right position to be presidents or presidents of the anti-corruption commission. Otherwise, the same opposition has been claiming for years that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is in anyway. It has been said that some toothless tiger is a paper tiger, that he is a mailbox, all of this has been heard in the discussions of the last year. What, then, is such a concern as to who will be president, if the Commission is anyway, if it writes some opinions that someone respects or does not. Clearly, then, you too find that the Commission has some difficulty in preventing corruption in this country, that its opinions do not make such a difference. You better be late than you never knew. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it is said, will not be supported by me because you did not convince me by any argument, because it is not an argument to me that the President is not yours, but that he is ours. This is the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you. A while ago, one of the respected fellow Members of the ruling SD raised a rhetorical question about how to stress trust at the same time, the importance of an institution and, on the other hand, criticise concrete actions. Now, let me answer him one simple way. Trust in institutions is an important component of any political system. Without at least minimal trust in institutions, it is in fact impossible to effectively manage the optimal development of any country in the long term. Therefore, trust in institutions is particularly important and is therefore also highlighted in the SDS. Secondly, when it comes to concrete actions, because politics, we firmly believe so, must be assessed by concrete actions. And the concrete actions of public officials, political officials, politicians of any kind already perform any function are certainly something that we can assess, which can also be the subject of criticism. If I am specific, let us look at three cases when it comes to raising the issue of confidence in the institution of the President of the country. Because politics must always be based on values. That's what we all say, it even says in the textbooks of political science. Politics must always be based on values and then be evaluated. The first time the question was before the Huda Cave, if the President of the country visited this crime scene, the answer was about such that it was not possible to exploit second-rate topics for such and different purposes. Later, however, this turned on the press to misinterpret the statement, even though it was fully broadcast on television. Now let's look at this from a value angle. Wherever in Europe and if it wants to, both the Council of Europe and the European Parliament say so, crime is condemned as a crime, whoever has committed it, and respect for victims is always expressed. It is not true that Srebrenica is the largest post-war cemetery since World War II on European soil, as is heard 200 times a year in our media. The largest graves are the Huda Cave, Celje, the Maribor anti-tank ditch, the Kočevski Horn, etc. These are the biggest post-war European cemeteries. And even our penal code says that it is necessary to have proper respect, a positive attitude towards the victims, and that there is no way to magnify the totalitarian regime in any of its works. This is said, when it comes to European values, this action was clearly contrary to European values. Another case, the honor of the chiefs of the Udba. All Europe has celebrated the fall of totalitarianism, two important declarations have been adopted, one in the European Parliament - and we are an integral part of the European Union, the other in the Council of Europe, which have expressed European values - that is, condemning totalitarianism and condemning the key elements of this system, among which the political police are explicitly cited as key elements of the totalitarian regime, as the most condemned, the most valuable rejection. It's a European value. In Slovenia - the act of honouring the chief of Udba, the secret political police of the totalitarian regime. It's the opposite. It's a third case. The European value is by example, it is respect for the principles of honesty. In Slovenia - when it is revealed that one of the ministers did not speak the public truth, that he has hidden, that he has a share abroad, which follows, I do not know, leading by example that capital should be escaped or transferred abroad, perhaps also to avoid paying taxes. Is this a message to the public we're giving?Oh, my God! Where is the value of patriotism, a positive attitude toward the country?Oh, my God! The president's actions, the president says it was just a mistake to understand who could. Here is the difference between respect for the institution, between the desire for everyone to trust this institution and concrete actions that undermine precisely this respect and trust in the institution. That's why I'm also stressing them because they're not good because they're not right. The president's problem is that some of you said it was an argument. He didn't even want to hear the opposition's arguments on the issue of impeachment. I would remind you that he entered the House of Parliament only after the SDS President had completed his opening address. And in politics, it is also important to listen to important values. After all, politics should always be about people, for the sake of others, not about themselves, so it is important to listen. Next, and allow some very short answers. Before that, it was said that it was an old marriage. This is not true, of course, it is not the law that the previous government would have drawn up, but even if such a draft were lying in stock, the people of God, or if no one has ever noticed that it has passed for a year and a half, from what is new power and even if it goes on, it is not that it is an old law, it is only a question of what you have done for a year and a half. And what excuse is that? This can no longer be a legitimate excuse. Then, it was rather comical to hear concerns about the National Assembly committee, with a special exposure by the SD MP to be led by SD Dušan Kumer, that you obviously don't trust Dušan Kumru in the SD or your colleague Dušan Kumru completely, you probably know why, but I must say that I am surprised. When we talk about the achievements that some of you have mentioned, the Commission's work so far, and you have highlighted the same treatment among them. You know, let me give you an example that shows this in a rather strange light. In fact, I would remind you that right at the beginning of the current term of office, at the hearings of ministers and ministers, we have had the opinion of the Kosovo Commission, as we tell her in person that Mrs Maja Shirca, the Minister of Culture, had violated the Anti-Corruption Act in the past period because she had decided on a role, a matter involving her partner, but it was money. And it's a violation of the Anti-Corruption Act. And when we pointed out that, within 24 hours, the same commission made public the view that this could not be interpreted as a corrupt act, because the Commission did not specifically decide whether this was a corrupt act. Yeah, which marriage was broken? Was the horseman’s law broken or what?Oh, my God! It read: The Anti-Corruption Act was violated. And of course such a reversal of facts, such adaptation to the person concerned, does not give any credibility to such a body. This is what we wanted to avoid, and therefore we are proposing amendments such as that this story should not be repeated in order to achieve at least the principle equality before the law, because this is what we desperately miss in this mandate. Not only about this commission, but also about the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior and what else I could count. And just for the end. The government's law enforcement department was mentioned, if it doesn't work out well. Perhaps in any case, I don't know, I find it difficult to judge, but I do recall a recent case when we drew attention to the opinion of the Government's legislative service that there is a case that the government has sent to Parliament, however, is inadequate, illegal and could even be unconstitutional. And then you all overheard it, which means it's probably not a problem in the government law department, but in those who don't want to hear it. For all these reasons, of course, the proposal that we have proposed is to transfer the appointment to where, according to the Constitution, the primary place for both the position and the opposition is present, all political forces and therefore procedures are so much more transparent, the only appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss both amendments to Article 9? Is there still interest in the debate? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on this Article and the amendments to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendments of SD, DeSUS, Zares and LDS. Does anyone want to discuss these amendments to Article 14? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u182	We are now right in front of an article that I have already warned about at the beginning. With a slightly different use of words and phrases as they were in the draft, the core of the story is still the same and equally problematic. This law provides for a specific role for a particular part of civil society or, if I am specific, non-profit private sector organisations in the field of anti-corruption. Not only is cooperation with the organisations I mentioned envisaged, but they even play a special role in the appointment of a commission, which then decides on the suitability of all other candidates. And what happens? This same commission is present under the same law for the control of corruption and also for lobbying. And so we have a situation where, after this same law, the same group of civil society will be financed by taxpayers' money and at the same time suppressed by the role of the pianists of this same commission and, of course, by the policies of the ruling coalition, which, in its design, is due to the mechanism that we have talked about today, is a perfect ideological and real monopoly. This is literally a degradation of the work of civil society, which is an inappropriate solution, but I am firmly convinced that there is still a legal dispute. This is not about these people deciding or deciding on just some substantive matters, perhaps good practices such as a rather stretching formulation here. On the contrary, they will be financed from this source and will co-ordinate themselves with those who will then be controlled, and with regard to this source, as well as with regard to corruption, as well as with regard to lobbying, which will, of course, be an essential component of such a role as provided for in this Act. A enchanted circle or, if you like, pure systemic corruption. In order to avoid this, we are presenting a clear and simple solution that this Article, which provides for the financing of these organisations by the Commission, with taxpayers' money, is completely deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Minister Irma Pavlovich Krebs has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Grims, your words in the introductory part have been even more cruel, so I must explain the fundamental misunderstanding of the concepts in this provision. You have defined that the actual ruling elite corrupts non-governmental organisations, institutionalising corruption, you have now again explained in better words. What are NGOs, what are public sector unions, we are talking about Article 17, what is civil society? And what is more important for limiting power than for NGOs to remain non-governmental, but of course to cooperate with independent state authorities in the area that they are pursuing, covering, lobbying in the interest of civil society itself that this area is well regulated. In Slovenia we also have a non-governmental organisation, which is the voice of civil society, not the government, the government has been criticised by this non-governmental organisation because it has demanded explicit arrangements for the protection of victims of anti-corruption practices, because so far the legislation has not protected people who have detected corruption and they have not been able to report them for fear of sanctions against public authorities when they report them in their unfair conduct. The second paragraph, which you wish to delete, does not refer to the financing of these NGOs, but is very clear and follows the objectives that all democratic countries are pursuing. And I very much agree with you what you said: not words, actions are essential. And the actions are to give NGOs, even when we give them work, if you want them in the field of their conduct, which is desirable, which is important, which is also financed, but not by the Government, the anti-corruption commission. This article, which you want to delete, says, "The Commission can," so there is a possibility. There are well-known practices abroad that commissions, non-governmental, otherwise independent of government, cooperate with international organisations, with civil society, with NGOs in this area of anti-corruption and often because they want to reach out to civil society. And if anyone, the representatives of civil society are the ones who are her sidekick. And the Commission may, in the framework of its financial plan, Mr Grims, finance non-profit organisations or NGOs in the field of anti-corruption. Only those who have the same task as the Commission in carrying out tasks in the field of training, public information, awareness-raising and the transfer of good practices to the field of implementation of the purposes of this Act. We appoint an assistant to the Commission, a civil society that fights corruption just as it is a fundamental task given by this law to the anti-corruption commission. Of course, you confused lobbying when you said at the same time, yes, first they would finance NGOs, but at the same time this same commission would oversee these same NGOs when they were exposed to public authorities, that is the definition of lobbying and influence and express their interests. In this part, this commission will not fund anyone. In this part, i.e. in Article 17, it finances only one type of non-governmental organisation, which is one which has the same mission as the Commission itself. And so, when the lobbying that we are going to discuss next, because this chapter you proposed to delete, there is no way that this organisation will register its activities as lobbyist. Why? Because the purpose of the action of NGOs in the field of anti-corruption is public action, and this is not lobbying. If the voice of this civil society is not heard, then it will fail to achieve its purpose, because it is a messenger of civil society in relation to the public authorities of Members, Ministers, Judges, i.e. those who are entrusted with important power in the decision-making and spending of public funds. And if it's not loud, it's not heard. Therefore, it will certainly not be registered as a lobbyist organisation because its type of operation is already laid down in this Article in the second paragraph. It's about anti-corruption organisations, not about anyone else. Let us therefore allow the Commission to act like the Commission in foreign countries, to take civil society organised in the form of non-governmental organisations and, of course, within the framework of its financial plan as its implementing assistants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Someone else besides the mags wants it. Grimes, discuss? If not, I'm filing a report. I don't think so far. Mag. Branko Grimes, he has your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u186	Look, what's the definition of corruption, just to get back by questioning. One of them, as a source, sets out the concept of conflict of interest. In all European declarations, resolutions, acts, if you want to debate, you will see that conflict of interest is one of the fundamental elements for assessing corruption. It is therefore European to consistently avoid conflicts of interest. In this case, the law even institutionalises a conflict of interest. Why? Because the same organisations that will pursue a specific policy to carry out a certain activity, if you want, in disseminating good practice or whatever is already listed here, will be directly financed by this Commission and at the same time co-ordinate even in its design, which is in itself a conflict of interest. But that the path to hell is pressed with good intentions, let's play a little bit of how this will work in practice. With money, we all know things get sensitive. It is quite clear that money is decided by the one who has a tentacles in his hands. This will, in the present case, be the commission, in which the current ruling elite will have a perfect monopoly, we have already lost this before. And then what happens? The moment when one of the civil society organisations, which will now be financed and will be financially dependent, will be in conflict of interest, if you want, with this committee to adopt a different view of the public, God forbid any criticism on the Commission's account, it is clear in advance what will be the result. The pussy's gonna close. Therefore, it is also clear in advance what will be the proceeds, what the final effect of such a law will be. To be organised, let's go, some lobby, if you want, or whatever you call it, one group of civil society organisations that we will call a non-profit organisation of the private sector in the field of anti-corruption, because this is how it sets out a law that will be wrapped in exactly the same horn as the president of this commission will say. And if any of this goes away, if not immediately, but surely next year, the tentacles will be held and then closed, and then the deprived can only repent of his actions. Therefore, because of such a role, because of the conflict of interest in which this law pushes them, these organisations will actually be degraded to the role of some form of informal but public pianists of the ruling elite. And that's really what this law is about: buying some public support, some additional, covert, if you want a pyari, which will be public, but it will run through some organizations that will go in the same direction as the ruling elite will want. That's unacceptable. This is purely systematic corruption and the purchase of some additional levers to satisfy the inadequacy of the authorities. That is why this has nothing to look for in this law, because it is the same law and even the same entities in this law, which, on the one hand, determine what the Commission will do, determine the policy of this commission, if you want, decide on the money and, on the other hand, is directly linked to it by this commission. By the way, the one who may not be a political scientist. Do you know that one of the definitions of NGOs is that they are not directly financed by public funds? One of these definitions makes this very clear, and you probably know everyone who studied this very well. Now you're putting them in a position where they're financed by public funds. Formally through the Commission, but this Commission will receive budgetary resources and will therefore be directly linked to the budget. And then the question is whether that's what it is. Not in terms of the definition I'm talking about. And with that, this circle is closed. That is why such a solution is inappropriate. It is inconceivable, legal and inadequate in terms of preventing corruption, which will not prevent it, but, on the contrary, institutionalise it. And the law on institutionalised corruption of civil society works certainly does not need Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u188	Mr. Grimes, he just doesn't hold. This is not about direct funding. It's a delusion. We read the same thing, I hope so. If, within the framework of its financial plan, the Commission is able to seek the assistance of a non-governmental organisation in the field of anti-corruption, for example, to inform the public of its own power, i.e. the fight against corruption, to extend its power through a civil organisation to reach people, what will it do? She'll have to respect it because she's committed to doing business under the Public Finance Act. It will not be able to directly share these funds with NGOs. It's a public invitation, a public invitation. To select and implement a specific programme for a certain amount of public funds. The Commission will not team itself up, but with the help of the non-governmental sector, it will carry out only one and the same activity. Of course we have a problem here. We already have a problem here on the basis of a political party representing individual views on the functioning of the authorities, public authorities. If the interest of the current coalition is to involve as many people as possible in decision-making processes, to enable as many people as possible to make their interests known to civil society, your view of the formation of public authorities and the concentration of political power in the government is completely different here and so on. That's right. And from day one, we hear that NGOs are subjects, employees of current power. Mr Grimes, you know exactly that's not true. That the third sector is extremely critical to the current area. Trade unions are the third sector. Non-governmental organisations from all possible areas, where they advocate the interests of environmental protection and so on, are an exceptional criticism of the current authorities. And so by referring to the current authority, which is more self-restraintful than you are, and by allowing this space to be organised by civil society, also in the form of NGOs, voluntary organisations, to be able to speak and allow it to do so. Also by adopting appropriate regulations, hereinafter referred to as the Voluntary Act. In all laws and actions, in fact, we are looking for a market niche to expand and integrate as many target companies as possible into decision-making processes, so that the policies will be as balanced as possible as we can accept them. This is very difficult, it is much better to be an authority that does not listen to civil society. That's indisputable. We would be more comfortable, too, but it's less democratic. And it's not right. This part is just very good. And we are jeopardising the current authority because the Commission's voice to prevent corruption will be heard significantly more through civil society. But we think that's just fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Please, it's mag. Branko Grimes. Anybody else want to discuss this?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you. Just a warning. Please, Madam Minister, don't mix apples with pears! You are talking about the decision-making process and the involvement of civil society in the decision-making process. I am very supportive of this, but we are talking about funding here. And all you did was throw it in the same basket when you were talking about any eyewitnesses. Not all of this is true, but this part of which this law speaks of, you are pushing this law into a role in which they will objectively come into the role of conflict of interest themselves. And on top of all this it will not only be a problem for these organisations, the problem arises systematically with the commission itself. The same Commission is now placed in the role of those who will share in the framework of its financial plan, and it is also responsible for the control of corruption. Who's in control of the supervisors? And that's the old question of democracy that there's no answer to here. In that part relating to this committee, the National Assembly is in fact limited only to the supervision that there is no acceptance of gifts and similar matters in the members of the Commission themselves. From there there there is no possibility to demand anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 17? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to Article 21. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SD, Zares and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 31 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. In the debate on Article 34 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 46 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss both amendments to Article 46? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to paragraph 56. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 56 is in substance linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 66, 67, 69, 70 and 71, 73 and 74, we will discuss these Articles and amendments together. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the following substantively related articles and amendments. Anybody want to talk? Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much. This is the last chapter, the lobbying for which the applicants propose to delete as an entire chapter from this law. Lobby is a desirable activity in current democratic countries. We want lobbying, expressing the interests of the public authorities to be public in particular. That is why we, the current government, have opened up the field and guaranteed the procedural guarantee to civil society that there is room and time to publicly express its interests in the policy-making process. The resolution on normative activities and the adopted Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the information support for this e-democracy process, allows or obliges the Government to have every regulation from 30 to 60 days in public debate, which means an open space for transparent public lobbying, expressing the interests of various stakeholders. The process standard is therefore ensured. After the completion of the procedure, public blasts must respond in an reasoned manner whether the comments made by the target companies given on the proposal for a regulation have taken into account or argued why not. This process standard therefore encourages open public lobbying and transparent decision-making at the state level in the policy-making process, in the government's process of action. This is one de: transparency, openness. It's already legal. However, the second part, which is not regulated and extremely neat and is also different, but somewhere completely unregulated, is lobbying as a private contact, the non-disclosure of stakeholders in relation to public decision makers at national and local level, not those who decide in administrative procedures, not those who decide on individual rights, but those who decide on the adoption of policies at national and local level. And this indiscretion with public authorities, ministers and their officials, high government officials, Members, municipal officials, municipal mayors, municipal councillors, we want to arrange in the manner regulated by the European Commission, as recommended by the OECD guidelines, not excessive interference with the private sector. We have tried to do this in a way and, above all, to order the public authorities to behave towards these private interests, which will not be made public, but are legitimate, and they must not be such that this private interest is sold in a way that this private interest includes benefits for a particular public official. And that's settled in this chapter. We are late, Mr Grims, in 1999, the proposal for a lobbying law was put into the legislative process, after which no authority wanted to settle this issue, not that one and not yours. In fact, we're late here, and problems are screaming out of order. And the arrangements, as we suggest, are appropriate. Practice will certainly show what's not best, and then we'll complement it. However, we wanted to take these practices into account, this contact of private interest with the public to be prescribed in a way that will not be too bureaucratic, but it will be ensured and it will be known which private interests have come before the public authorities, because these contacts will have to be kept in writing because this lobbyist will have to register and will have to report on these contacts once a year. Here we think it's very appropriate, we've been drinking it to the last, we've been trying to make it so it doesn't get too complicated, not too complicated. It will certainly guide the improvement of this regime as well as any other proposed regime. But for now, it seems to me that it would be appropriate for him to remain in this marriage. The conduct of public authorities should be fair, therefore fair conduct, is the integrity and attitude of the public authorities towards the private interest, which is expressed in secret, is an appropriate regulation that is part of this law. We need to arrange this contact. If they are in conflict with the law, they can cause a lot of damage. Transparency of these contacts will also lead to traceability in this area. At the same time, we encourage these organisations, where individuals who will express the interests of these organisations to register, because only then will they have to see the area for which they are registered to send proposals for rules to be dealt with so that they can be made public in order to make them known in a public way, also to the documents in this area. When it is also a positive stimulus to register expressions of interest. Once again, honest open lobbying is desirable because it breaks opinions on a particular solution to a particular political issue. And we explicitly support that in this regulation, we stimulate it. Inadmissible practices related to offering benefits to the public in order for some private interest to win over the public are unacceptable and, of course, are being pursued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to apply for a debate. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u194	I guess we all remember the fantastic ones. We could say the legendary commercials, the good fairies. You all know what happened when someone asked for good fairies. And somehow I have to say that I have the impression that the one who designed this in the final text also wanted good fairies. And then he confused with those villas buying into this law exactly everything that seemed to be for piravian reasons to the current coalition productively to appear to be the one actively persecuting corruption. However, this does not excuse the incomplete solutions contained in this law. When it comes to lobbying, the very definition here is very narrow. The question of lobbying, if you compare this to some of the solutions they know in the United States and in some other countries, is much more complex. This is a problem facing the developing world increasingly, and Slovenia is certainly an integral part of it. That is why I would no doubt deserve to be a member of a special law, because now because of the contradiction in the same law we will deal with very stretching formulations. Look at what individual articles of this work and other parts of it can do. And then, of course, everything will be left to the arbitral decision of that commission, which will be able to do wonderfully and honestly, but it will be able to very much abuse this option of arbitrary decision-making. However, ladies and gentlemen, the material consequences that may affect an individual under this law are extremely severe. In certain cases, I say that they are also excessive. This is a problem of this law, because, for pianistic reasons, to hear it well, there are some penalties, the material consequences, therefore, that can hit an individual already because there is some possibility somewhere and so on that I do not list all the ambiguous formulations in the law, very severe. And the matter will then sooner or later break down on individuals, even in the private sector, which is referred to in a rather careless way by this law, even though the private sector and private property are a constitutional category. On the other hand, the formulations are such that they are likely to result in long-term judicial proceedings that will be repaid by taxpayers. As a result, these things need to be weighed considerably more and not rushed just to impress on us how something is done. In this case, it is a real case that deserves all the attention, but also the right solutions. The detection and prevention of corruption cannot in any case justify ambiguous formulations which, at the end of the day, may also lead to serious human rights violations. We therefore propose that this part be deleted and that an appropriate law be drawn up in cooperation with the public, in accordance with the legislation which provides for its inclusion in the process of drafting an individual law. Otherwise, you know it well. The question is that you have adopted the resolution on your own, unfortunately you do not respect it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u196	Having considered our law, which regulated a detailed area, I had already said, as far as lobbying is concerned, we are not late, but we are currently ahead of Slovenia in view of the development of this system, and given the practices in which we live and in view of the circumstances and standards in force in this country, it is still far from being able to regulate this area in this way. A while ago, the media reported on an invitation to tender at Dars, i think about €9 million, where the State Audit Commission has eliminated the provider, who is related to the chief of the Prime Minister's office. The media reported that, after this nomination had taken place, the prime minister had received a coffee at a restaurant, and that the president of the Dars administration, who had not denied it, had also received it in the process of deciding whether and how a competing bidder would obtain it. It was therefore a private contact, an indiscreet contact with those who do not make direct decisions, but are the political authorities, the Presidents of the Government, ministers, that is how you said just before. This law will make only this difference so that instead of this particular tenderer, a registered lobbyist will make these contacts on his behalf. We're not ready for this point yet, so to think about it, remove this part of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The word is from Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u198	Dear Mr. Blackach! The public will absolutely disagree with you. The maturity of political authorities, government representatives, ministers, Members to self-limit themselves seems to them to be at the point and at the moment they take over these functions. If we recognize that as public authorities, we are immature to limit our contacts and transparently open them to the public when they are legitimately expressed by interested groups. Groups have the right to have interests that benefit only one group. However, we who decide on these interests cannot and must not succumb to individual interests if they are detrimental to the common and public interests. And people have the right to know who is meeting with whom, who is expressing interest and who is holding that European countries do not have and do not have a uniform practice in this area. Here. However, there is a European Commission that is increasingly aware. The Green Paper was adopted in 2007 and the European Commission has itself arranged in a very similar way as we do in seven basic rules for representatives of interests in relation to decision makers in the European institutions. And that's exactly the way we handle it. Contact. Lobirans will be publicly registered. It will be known which organisation advocates what area. That's normal. And it will be known that this will actually address when we are preparing individual regulations, government representatives, employees and Members. And we'll write that down. However, if this organisation offers a mark for a decision that will only be in its favour, and if a public servant or official were to take that step, it would, of course, be a crime. But the clues to who you're talking to must be transparent. The European Commission was mature. They have a voluntary lobbyist registration, and now they're going to make it mandatory. Same way. Those who register shall send them the documents of the European Commission for consideration while at the same time registering their conduct. America has that legal. Members must have a very clear, even constitutionally regulated lobbying, from, I think, 1945 forward. It is very clear and these lobbyist contacts are controlled, registered with very clear rules. In fact, we are following the maturity and abilities of our space, but the guidelines of these countries are included, which have found that this practice of controlling these private contacts is extremely important. But we can't mix with each other. This is not about private contact in processes where these contacts must not be at all. In procurement procedures, in decision-making procedures on legal proceedings, in the decision-making procedures of the stakeholder group of someone who is on the one hand, against public interest or against a party on the other, there cannot be. We don't fix that either. We only regulate the representation of the interests of individual organisations in relation to public authorities. But it's about private contacts. And we define that they can influence the decision-making process. There they have the right and the duty to influence. Like I said. We have opened up the system space, we have limited the Government to the procedural standard of public participation in the regulatory process, and we are now aiming at private contacts between decision makers and individual stakeholders. And transparency, in our view, will be just the right thing for people to feel that these procedures are systematically regulated. However, it is very difficult when almost half of the politicians you decide on this regulation say that as politicians we are not mature enough to do this at all, which I fear will show how we will implement this regulation, because this requires one self-discipline. American congressmen have had it for a long time, so they've put it into practice, and we're gonna have to start this self-restraint exercise as soon as possible. People expect that from us. And maturity will be measured by whether or not we follow this law. I think it is right that, under this law, in fact, all those who have been entrusted to us have done so honestly, as proposed. It would be good to accept it with a large majority of politicians. But I'm afraid there's almost no agreement on self-restraint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Anyone else besides Mr. Black and Mag. Grims' word? First Mr. Zvonko Černač, who came forward earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u200	I'm afraid you're going to have to start with this self-restraint action right in front of the Prime Minister. If contacts with someone in the audit process are not good and recommended by senior political officials, then this exercise will have to start with him first. That's enough for the first part, Your Honor. In the regulatory process and in the decision-making process, influence, lobbying, if we can say so, is in the public interest. But I don't want the other part to come to law again on the basis of some lobbyist law, let's say, some of the stories that happened to us years ago when needless car stickers were legalized at the time of registration of vehicles that were not intended for anything other than the fact that citizens had to pay over a billion former tolerans annually to a private company for an unnecessary cost. There was no public benefit in that, either. And that would be called lobbying by the new things you're legislating.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u202	The arguments put forward by the Minister are in favour of deleting this work. The part that she says does not specifically regulate is actually the one that is most problematic when we look at some of the current developments that we have already discussed in Parliament. An example of the sudden rise of a medium for 50 cities on the invitation of Minister Shirce to the media, and then it turns out that one of the members of the coalition has such or other interests along with it, is certainly something that would fall within the broader context of lobbying and questionable procedures, including transparency, if you would like, the functioning of the Government. But that, I agree, is regulated by some other laws. They'll have to be respected. Another such case, perhaps even more up-to-date in some way, is the question of a high-level government official proposing to replace someone else, because he was negotiating with a third party, a holder of a public function, but for a matter of public interest, but he replaced it. Then he declared himself twice, once on television, once in an interview yesterday, that he was actually trading his own voices and that he was very bad at these things. If at the government level, when it comes to contacts between public officials, these things are not regulated, there are clearly double criteria for following the system, because you know what is allowed to someone else, how it will only be when it comes to issues of private action and the private sector. We therefore point out that these things need to be carefully thought out and carefully weighed, perhaps in cooperation with some of the Department of Criminal Law and other disciplines. This would therefore require a broader debate because the problem is much broader than it seems only from this text that you have incorporated into this law. It sounds good to me that it's done by lobbying, but it's not done by any means where it's most problematic, and it's not completely regulated. Above all, be aware that this is also a matter of common human values if you want, even the same criteria for all and for the protection of human rights. As this thing is now written, it does not make it possible to respect either one or the other. Therefore, it is not legally appropriate and must be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The delay you have been reading has also been due to the fact that the law has been in public debate for a long time, that the chapter, which also regulated lobbying, has been extensively explained by the lobbying groups and that we have listened to them very carefully. And if you look at the first draft of the law, we have tried to balance interests between private and public. And according to my assessment, this arrangement, which is now proposed, is indeed significantly improved. But I agree, no one can be perfect if you first prescribe it. Let us carry out what is now, all of us who are the stakeholders who are the addressees, and we will continue to improve this. One or the other power. I hope they didn't cancel again. And Mr Cernač, interest groups never lobby in the public interest. They always lobby in the interest of the group they represent. Let them be environmentalists, architects, public servants and others. All of us, when we urge the public authorities to make a smart decision, are pursuing our interests. It is therefore right that these interests are heard through public procedure and at the same time we have the right to monitor also how these interest groups are in private contact with the public authorities. America has this as a practice, the European Commission tries, Germany does this, Poland has only opened up transparency of regulatory procedures and makes regulations available there, and we have made one complete, systemically very appropriate circle, where, in my opinion, we will once again regulate the public authorities here properly supervised and we will act transparently. This is the basic objective of this law. It's self-restricting, but it's mature to accept it, because the trust of people in public authority has to rise. I hope that by implementing this regulation we will gradually achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment to Article 56 and the Articles and Amendments relating to the substance. [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 90 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will continue by vote at 7.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u206	Ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to break the 12th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for the School Diet Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 21 and 33. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 21 and 33 are irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, Minister Luksic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. On the basis of Article 178(1) of the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of the fact that preparatory procedures are to be carried out after school, it is necessary to speed up the adoption of the law, I propose that a third hearing be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. The proposal will not be adopted if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members and Members present. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 21. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 20.5.2010 after the vote has been completed. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Youth Councils Act, under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, within the framework of the regular procedure. The amendments to the amended draft law were not tabled. However, since the draft law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 3 which you received on the bench. I give the floor to a representative of the Government about the harmonisation amendment if he wishes to explain it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you, President. In view of the fact that you have accepted the proposal on the table and it is clear that it is in fact one small harmonisation, it is said that the'associations of societies' are added to another article, I do not think there is a need for a detailed explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? Please, Mr. Dejan Levanic. Excuse me? You now have the floor of a Member and Members in the debate on the harmonisation amendment. I note that there is no desire to discuss the harmonisation amendment and I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We decide on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dejan Levanič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on public interest in the youth sector. With the proposed law after almost two decades, we finally win the youth sector in the Slovenian legal order, define the public interest in it, and return the concept of the law mainly to a direction where we allow young people to participate in political decisions, which is very important. By law, we allow the local community to enable young people to participate actively in their activities, to have no excuses, to have no legal basis, to establish different committees and commissions and, of course, to involve young people in decision-making processes. The Council of the Government for Youth Issues has already been established, and this law specifically defines this world. In the past, we have only had a Council of Government for Student Affairs, now we have a Council of Government for Youth Issues, which means that all young people who work in any way in the youth field will be involved and will be able to decide on matters of particular importance to young people. The key area covered by the law is, of course, the national Youth Programme to be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, which will mean that all action content that will take place in the field of youth will be recorded in the national programme with concrete measures presented in the National Assembly. The National Assembly will also have the opportunity to debate them and, above all, to check how implementation is. It seems very important to me that we have come to this law and that we have once taken this step, which some countries have known for some time. It will be even more important, however, when we are specifically discussing the national programme in the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will be happy to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 22. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 22 will become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under point 2 will become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Indeed, DeSUS and LDS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 23. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u213	Respectable. We will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment in the SDS Group, because we want to prevent the wrong decision, followed by a proposal for a law whereby non-profit organisations will be pushed into the role in which they will actually face conflicts of interest. In fact, as the law is now written down, it means that non-governmental organisations will actually be demolished as an additional pianist, in the first instance of the commission financed by taxpayers' money, and in the second part of the entire ruling coalition, if you want, the ruling elite, as the entire appointment process is set to have a total monopoly on the present ruling elite. Thus, an additional pear of the ruling coalition is being enacted under the cover of civil society at the expense of taxpayers. If we name things with the right name, this law institutionalises systemic corruption within the civil society. It is no wonder, then, that Dr. Lovro Sturm, a professor of constitutional law, has for some time warned us that we are living in a period of systemic kleptocracy. The only way to prevent the degradation of civil society in the part to which this law applies is to delete that part. In fact, we will be in a position to make the same decisions on the allocation of funds, therefore, on the money of taxpayers, to exercise the same control over it, to decide what corruption is and what is not, and thus, in fact, everyone covered by this law within civil society will be plunged into the role of some kind of lobbyist. And since this law includes lobbying in its second part, it is possible that the one who controls it itself causes a situation that it controls, and the circle is concluded. For this reason, of course, we will not support the law, which should be called the law establishing systemic corruption in the civil sector, in the SDS unless this amendment is voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u214	May I have your attention in the hall? Please, Minister. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 27. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 26. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 31. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 34. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 44. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 45. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 22. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 46. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under point 2 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 46. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 23. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 56. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 66, 67, 69, 70, 71, 73 and 74. If this amendment is not adopted, these substantive amendments will become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u215	Respectable. In the SDS Group, we will vote in favour of deleting that part of this law relating to lobbying and to duly regulate it in a specific law. The present part, which is included in this law, and obviously quite forcefully, since certain provisions are highly contradictory in relation to the rest of the law, is obviously only involved because of the appearance that actually led the entire law. To make it look like corruption is being pursued, but the problem is not going where it is. For the old proverb says that fish always stinks at the head, and this law does not touch the head when it touches the lobbying. It does not touch on cases which, according to the applicant's words, should already be properly regulated. When we witnessed and were also documented in this Chamber, when, for example, on the call for media funds suddenly within the call for proposals some flew up 50 and more places, it turned out that there was a particular interest in any of the members of the coalition. It does not touch on cases where there was on the one hand an initiative to resolve and on the other hand a claim as to how this was achieved when it came to buying votes and other benefits that an individual official may provide to another official. So it does not touch everything that currently weighs most, and it also actually weighs, today and today in the Slovenian political arena. On the other hand, the law is too narrow, since some aspects of this sensitive issue, namely lobbying, do not cover at all. On the other hand, the law, as it was written, is full of very stretching formulations. And for this reason, in some parts, it is also obviously unconstitutional. Formulations referring to options or, as the original proposal was, even merely to appearance and then to extreme material consequences, may also have irreparable material consequences for an individual who may be affected by different interpretations of each of these provisions, of course, imply that all these solutions will be reconsidered, discussed in the professional and general public and drafted a law that will be European and globally comparable. Now he wants to beat himself to the left, but this can also cause serious violations of human values and even systematic violations of human rights. We therefore propose that this part be completely deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 27 to 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 90. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u217	Your Honor! We propose a normal deadline for the implementation of the law, as originally proposed in the end. This, however, is the time limit that is usually set when it comes to more difficult changes in the law, and this law is entirely written on a new one. You have now proposed in the text that the law shall enter into force the following day following its publication. This makes it impossible for everyone concerned by this law to normally prepare themselves to the requirements that this law will put before them, which is clearly fundamentally, irresistible against the resolution on normative activities adopted by the National Assembly on your proposal and on our notice that you are acting differently in practice. You are now acting in disharmony, in clear contradiction with your own resolution. Why? Because you want to hunt hands that you missed for a number of reasons. And in the resolution on normative activities, among the reasons why such a procedure would be justified, for example, if there were some special circumstances, a natural disaster - unless this government is a natural disaster - you would find no government schism among these reasons. And here also excuses that the procedure lasted in Parliament for a time proposal are faded. Indeed, the law has been known to be prepared for a long time, this government has existed for a year and a half, and, on the other hand, there are mechanisms within the procedure in the National Assembly from the pooling of various proposals and, of course, to the various procedures of extraordinary meetings and so on, which could be used if this were actually in the interest of the ruling coalition. Now he wants to be horrified in order not to see what the sad core of this law really is. Instead of effectively persecuting corruption, this law foresees only the satisfaction of government negligence, it will result in systemic corruption, and it will contribute to greater legal disorder and legal danger in the country of Slovenia. We therefore propose that at least the expiry date should be extended so that all those who are committed by this law can be properly prepared for its implementation. At least that much can be afforded to everyone concerned by this law, and at least so much can be respected by your own words and your own resolutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 28 to 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. We're moving to third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u219	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Your Honor! In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, as business conditions have been met, I propose that the National Assembly hold a third hearing at this meeting of the National Assembly. At the same time, on this occasion, we would politely ask Members and members of the opposition not to support the proposal of the law so that they do not oppose this procedural proposal with a single majority. As a proposal for austerity measures, the government proposed a reduction in the number of officials from five to three. The appointment procedures are actually in progress so that, in the event of this procedural obstacle, it would mean that the third hearing would only take place in June, which would mean that new officials would be embarrassed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the draft law proposes that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 26. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Yelinčič Plemenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the President of the Republic of Greece on the question of the victory of Jelinčič Plemnit in connection with financial assistance. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Zvonk Černač's question on the statement by the President of the Government on the issue of Polemik. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u221	We will support the debate in the SDS Group. Yesterday, the Prime Minister, in response to questions about whether, and under what circumstances, the President of the Croatian Government promised him a territorial contact between Slovenia and the high seas, which the public had persuaded last week at the meeting in Polymika, revealed that there was no such assurance. The diameter is always talking about contact, never about territorial contact or the direct territorial connection of ours to the open sea, which is a major difference. The Arbitration Agreement does not give us direct access to the open sea. Even if the arbitrators wished to assess this under the provisions of the arbitration agreement, they could not do so. The internal bay, which will be trapped between Croatian and Italian waters, cannot be considered a sea, in fact for a natural swimming pool. In the first part of the response, the prime minister said first that this had happened in the Trakoscans, which was last summer, regarding the promise made by the Croatian Prime Minister. In the second part of the reply, the Prime Minister has already changed his position and said that Croatia's promise of access to the open sea arrived in Ljubljana on 11 September last year. We recall the walk with Prime Minister Kosarjevo after Ljubljana, although the Prime Minister did not say whether this happened with the coffee that he and the Croatian Prime Minister had had together, certainly Slovenia did not receive any formal assurances in Ljubljana on Croatia's consent to maintain our direct access to international waters on 11 September last year. The arbitration agreement, as we know, was signed later, and there is no way in which Slovenia will maintain or, as the Prime Minister says, get territorial contact with international waters. Moreover, the Croatian Foreign Ministry, in the last demantia where it reiterated that the Croatian Prime Minister had never promised Slovenia territorial contact with the open sea, stressed - and this our Ministry did not deny - that Prime Minister Borut Pahor had previously been informed of Croatia's statement that nothing in the agreement could be considered as the landing of Croatia on the territorial contact of Slovenia with the open sea. Moreover, by publishing such a statement, Croatia even agreed. It was therefore clear to the President of the Government, at the time of the signing of the arbitration agreement, that Croatia does not recognise territorial contact with the high seas, yet such an arbitration agreement was signed. Moreover, he has been deceiving the Slovenian public all the time that this agreement allows us to do so. It is therefore necessary to clarify the motives and reasons why the President of the Government did so. For this reason, we will support the debate on this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Do we vote in explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[...]] Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? He won't, in his own name, Dr. Luke Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you very much. In explanation of vote, I would like to explain why I am against and the explanation is very simple and is based on some basic physical principles. In fact, contact may be contact or lack of contact, there is no poletic. Phone contact can be good or it's not there, only communication can be bad. So when we talk about a particular territory of a particular country in contact with another territory or territory, we find that it is in contact, otherwise there is no contact. We've learned that in elementary school physics. That is why I will vote against it, because there is no difference between contact between the two areas and territorial contacts between the two areas. It's like they say it's some black or black color. It's the same. So, because contact can only be a contact and nothing but a contact, whether it's in the Piran Bay or in the Styczna Bay, I'm going to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Since wishes are for further explanation, please apply. In the meantime, I would like to warn you that I will only allow explanations of voices and not controversy, so pay attention. Explanation of the voice, in his name Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This is a very crucial question on which we received the President of the Government in this Chamber or on television on the lie and deception of the Slovenian people. The Prime Minister made it clear in the Polemika broadcast that he had agreed with Prime Minister Kosarje on the territorial contact of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia. Later he was denied by the Croatian Foreign Ministry, he was denied by the Croatian Foreign Ministry on the same day, and then here in this Chamber he also withdrew this claim and that the Croatian Prime Minister had promised him this. If that were true, let us be sure that the President of the Government would offer written and other evidence that Croatia and Croatian diplomacy have agreed on such a solution to the border dispute and a solution in the Gulf of Piran, which will actually enable Slovenia to contact international waters. In doing so, we will learn, with all the short contact with the President of the Government, that he was burned to the ground, and he obviously signed an agreement with Croatia in short contact. We have Slovenians, or foreigners, so much more importantly, that we can express what is a short contact and what happens when we make short contact. We are really glad that Mr Yuri has explained this to us so clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I would ask you, when you explain your voice, both of you remain so that you do not continue this electrotechnical debate. Please. A voice explanation, Mr Franz Pukšič, which I think is engineering for technique. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u227	I am, so I'm not going to talk about short contact, but this government has, the whole government has, not only in the international field, but also in all other areas. But let's go to the point. Why should this be discussed? In fact, you know, the difference is whether this contact with Slovenian territorial waters is with international waters or, of course, it will be through the service path. Because if the Slovenian territorial waters are in contact with international waters, then, of course, these Slovenian territorial waters cannot be entered by Croatian police and, of course, none other than the authorities of the Slovenian state. But if this is a service route that runs through Croatian territorial waters and leads us into international waters, then, of course, the owners of this service route will also be on this service route, and these are Croatian and Croatian authorities. This is of course a significant difference and here is actually a disaster, which will happen both with the Slovenian sea and with the Slovenian economy, through Luke and so on. And one more thing. All of this will begin to be discussed or this agreement will begin to be discussed only after the signing of Croatia's accession treaty into the European Union, to which no one would later have any influence, or these policies, to the government policy that today provides for this agreement when the arbitration agreement is thus resolved, then the politicians will be mostly – even those of today's younger ones, already at peace. So thank God in this country I don't believe this agreement. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u228	Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Branko Grimes and I'd like to have your attention in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u229	Dearly beloved, I think the matter is far too serious to be dealt with in this way or like that government pierre, by which the fire between Pahor and Kosor will never be extinguished; only that the entire sea will not evaporate in this fire; and it will forever. Look, the problem is of a constitutional nature. Many lawyers point to this. First of all, the term "junction", the contact you translate, in English legal language really means connection. What would guarantee us access, direct contact with the open sea, as you misinterpret, would be the term "territorial access to the high sea". This is also what our negotiators know, because this correct expression has been tried to establish in these negotiations, but they have kneeled under calls from abroad. And that's why there's an expression in there that guarantees us nothing and makes this treaty a disproportionate risk to Slovenia. Moreover, Professor Peter Jambrek, the authority of constitutional law, points out that, as the agreement is now written down, in fact prevents us from being determined by direct territorial contact with the open sea because it mechanically separates the matter. First, the arbitrators have to set a limit, a lateral limit, and then look for a link to the open sea. From which it is crystal clear that there can be no direct link in this initial determination and may not even be. That is why, and because it is a matter that can have irreparable consequences for the development of Slovenia, it is not good to deal with it in this way, but should focus on the appropriate debate in the National Assembly. We also owe this to the general public.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you. Since there are still requests for explanations of vote, please apply. But you don't have to follow my requests, of course. Voice explanation, Melita Župevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against the proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly, due to the simple fact that the next debate or next meeting of the National Assembly is on 14 June and the referendum is on 6 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Janja Klasinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u233	Dear Mr. President! Of course, I will also vote, not only for this reason, as stated by Župevchev's colleague, who is only logical, but also for other reasons. We discussed these "junctions" ten times in the National Assembly. You know, if ten times you can't understand that "junk" is an expression in international law for territorial contact, which has been repeatedly used in decisions of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, then you won't understand it for the 11th time, not the 12th time, not the 13th time. You just don't understand. "Territorial access" is access, but here is the service path and, of course, I cannot hear any discussions about whether or not it will be, and deception in all the powerlessness because you have no arguments to deceive the Slovenian public. And that is why I repeat, I vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Dejan Levanic, explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against this debate in the National Assembly, because it seems to me that its purpose is merely to mislead the public, to scare at what Slovenia is supposed to lose, but none of this is true. Several times this has been rejected with concrete arguments, but by the end of this campaign we will be separated for a few days, so of course we will probably be witnessing any more of the Flossules that will be made public. I will not vote in favour of this debate either, because it seems to me that everything that we have requested in Slovenian politics and what the Prime Minister has agreed, is today written down in the arbitration agreement everything that Slovenian policy has demanded in the history of its efforts to resolve the border issue is enshrined in the arbitration agreement. Everything that we somehow wanted the arbitral tribunal to decide will also be decided. More specifically, it is often feared that Slovenia will not have contact with the open sea. This is not true, many more international lawyers have warned about this than otherwise. It is also important to say, of course, that if an arbitral tribunal decides on anything other than its task, then we do not need to take into account its judgment under the Vienna Convention, which speaks of the functioning and functioning of arbitral tribunals which have the task of doing exactly what the arbitration agreement states. However, the arbitration agreement nicely states that it is necessary to establish a maritime and land border, to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, and what else Slovenia is, as a territory, that is, contact with the open sea, and of course the regime. In doing so, some have pointed out that only international law will apply, but that is not true, the principle of fairness, vital interests, historical, relevant circumstances and everything else that is important for Slovenia will also apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Vote explanation Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u237	I will also vote in favour of the debate, because we will discuss the circumstances that have arisen after the National Assembly has decided on the call for a referendum. On 10 and 17 May, we learned something that is very important and what is essential about the fact that the Prime Minister has signed an agreement with a clear attitude and awareness that it does not allow us territorial access to open waters. Under the arbitration agreement, the border at sea is established under international law, according to many international lawyers, this provision does not allow a border to be established so that Slovenia has territorial access to international waters, which is why we have in this point 3b defined the so-called "junction" which some of you interpret as a contact. It says "Slovenias Junction to the high sea". In one interview on Television Slovenia, the Prime Minister himself was also told that Slovenia had requested "territorial contact" and had not received it. This statement was also confirmed by Croatian Prime Minister Kosorov in the Croatian Parliament when this agreement was ratified. So it is clear that it was a loss of territorial access to the open sea. This is what Prime Minister Borut Pahor himself says. Don't fool the Slovenian public! Slovenian access to the open sea is something completely different from Slovenia's territorial access to the open sea. And because these circumstances are very important, including with regard to the arbitration agreement itself and its formal validity, it is necessary to discuss this in the National Assembly, and in particular it is necessary to find out what led the Prime Minister to sign something that he knew did not allow us this "territorial contact" or territorial access of Slovenia, Slovenian waters to the open sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thank you very much. An explanation of Dar's voice, Lovtišar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, let me start with what I heard the last time. What the Prime Minister has signed is what has been confirmed several times by the Foreign Policy Committee, which has ratified the National Assembly, and he has signed what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has said is not contrary to the Constitution. That's all he signed. That's the first time. Another time. Please, it is unfair for the public to keep repeating some of the winged which you probably hope will become the truth, but I tell you - they will not become truth, they cannot become truth! Because, what you're talking about, there's no basis in international law of the sea and, of course, there's no basis in ratified [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u240	No controversy, colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u241	arbitration agreement [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u242	No doubt about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u243	The arbitration agreement specified the tasks assigned to the arbitration tribunal. And the rumors that we'll be by the sea - please, yes, where did you get off!? It'll be the sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u244	A colleague of Darje Bebler's, no controversy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u245	And the sea will be [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u246	Please, don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u247	And it will be ours, as always. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u248	No argument, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u249	And saying something "junction" is what "junction" isn't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u250	Colleague [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u251	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u252	Beblerova [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u253	I'm sure. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u254	Don't argue with me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u255	that no one here is qualified to respond adequately to the question of "junction" under international maritime law. [[...]] So stop deceiving the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u256	Colleague [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u257	And, of course, it's a lot of stupidity, and it's a lot of stupidity to ask for a debate on this point of the agenda after people say what they think about this arbitration agreement. And this is again a plan to steal time and money from all of us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u258	I have to stop you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] You still want to explain your voice? [[...]] Please. Voice explanation, Franco Yuri. But I repeat, no controversy!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u259	I will vote against this debate because the proposal is based on unfounded arguments. These unfounded claims are constantly emerging and it should therefore be clarified to the public that in international practice, in particular in decisions of the Interstate Court, the word "junction", a contact that has always been used in the proper sense of the word. This means that it expresses and describes direct physical contact between two or more different territorial units. This is clearly clear to the international legal expert. Therefore, there is no point in continuing with such speculations as to cloud the essence of the problem. There are no service routes in the agreement. The service path is ensured today, with a scheme of so-called separate voyages. Free navigation is provided on the basis of UNCLOS, that is, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea; that is what everyone, I hope, obviously knows, but they do not want to say. So, without worry, there is no loss of the sea or service routes, but there is a possibility and provision that ensures contact. However, contact has been recorded several times and also realized in the decisions of the Interstate Court in The Hague. Even in this case, we operate without the Statute of the Hague Court, but this is precisely why we can afford greater flexibility and greater guarantees of contact.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Matevz Frangež, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u261	There is already a lot of debate on this point in these days, and this debate will continue to increase in the coming weeks by the referendum week. That is why I think that, above all, public space is an opportunity to clear up all questions about the arbitration agreement and try to convince the public that it is worth supporting in the referendum. I do not understand the arbitral tribunal itself as an object of hatred by Slovenia, but as a balanced body trying to find the best common denominator and interests of both countries, Slovenia and Croatia, following what is essential in this arbitration agreement and fulfilling its task as set out in point 3b of this Agreement: establishing the contact of Slovenia with international waters. This is what provides Slovenia more than what we have today. This is what ensures a just solution to the border in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I do not expect the arbitral tribunal to commit any new historical injustice that would once again impoverish Slovenian possibilities in history. And in this respect, as a country with a less favourable geographical position, I am sure that in the arbitration agreement we see that light that can improve this situation. It's time to solve our problems. This can be seen in the order of areas we deal with. And the arbitration agreement is our tool to solve the problem that has been in the shadows for too long, which has been a target and a field of power for many internal political interests. And you obviously do not want to solve this issue in order to be able to continue to feed on this undoubtedly rich populist area of deep national feelings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u262	Thank you very much. You didn't tell me how you're going to vote. We assume you're against it. An explanation for Ivan Grill's voice. Please. Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The Honourable President of the National Assembly! I would kindly ask you to be up to all those who debate in this National Assembly, in which case explain their voice as to how they will vote that you are the same, to measure with the same vats. Comrade Lavtizar Beblereva has been warned five times not to argue with the MP and you did not take her word. You let her talk to the end. While, on the other hand, in the moment, in the first, second warning, when you say it, you take the word. Not to us, but that's what's been going on. I would like to ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure and that you do not have any other contact with members of the coalition than with members of the opposition to maintain this formal return on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, so that it will be the same to all, that the conduct will not appear so clearly in cases where there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Coalition, and so, I will say that the conduct will be harshly suppressed and sanctioned in cases where it happens to anyone from the opposition. Be principled in your conduct, be sure to apply the rules of procedure as you said you would, because the application of the Rules of Procedure is for the conduct of the National Assembly and for the preservation of democracy in the National Assembly and, consequently, also in other matters, in fact, the primary issue. And if you don't respect that, if you don't take your own words into account, then it's probably difficult for Members of the National Assembly, especially members of the opposition, to say, to do something different than to respond to these challenges that you are giving. However, I ask you to be tolerant of the other side until the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I have to say no to your obviouss. I understand they're biased, because you're the leader of the parliamentary group and notice, if I may say so, mistakes on the other hand, but not on your own. The purpose is to monitor and warn both parties, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when I decide and to the extent that I have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We continue to explain our voice. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u265	I will, of course, support this proposal for a decision, because it is right that we are really discussing in the National Assembly the non-truths which the Prime Minister has repeatedly made public. Even if this debate were after the referendum, which I believe voters will vote against the arbitration agreement, it is only right that all of the shortcomings that Pahor has repeatedly said be revealed. The more he advocates this arbitration agreement, the more he hunts himself on the ground. If everything that now advocates has been agreed with the Croatian Prime Minister, then we do not need this arbitration agreement. Then let's just write some identification act where we'll put all these things in! However, as you know and the Prime Minister knows that this does not hold that these decisions will only expire after Croatia is in the European Union, but this is where the public is constantly trying to deceive. In this way, we will needlessly lose a lot of money if there is an arbitration agreement, but I am sure that the voters will not support it. And given the many observations made by the coalition that we do not understand international law, that we do not understand the word "junction" or that your former fellow Member Dr. Marko Pavliha, an internationally recognized lawyer, does not understand them, Dr. France Bučar, does not understand them, Dr. Rajko Pirnat, does not understand them, Dr. Miro Cerar, does not understand them, Dr. Hribar. I think I have counted them more than enough, and I hope that all these statements will convince our voters and voters to vote against it, because Slovenian national interests must be a priority for us, that we have open access to the international sea and that, of course, we will remain a maritime country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u266	Voice explanation, mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Well, I must say that I will not support these initiatives for the debate, it is pointless, because on 3 June the electorate and the electorate will decide on this. It is already the success of this government and its mandate-holder that, after twenty years of disputes and disagreements, Slovenia and Slovenia will be given the opportunity to decide. Whatever they decide, it is right that I would like, above all, to keep Slovenia and Slovenia united after the referendum and, of course, that the outcome, whatever it may be, will not serve the following years of different accounting and division. However, I am convinced that we can get a lot of what we do not have at this time: good neighbourly relations, good economic cooperation, the majority in the Gulf of Piranha and contact with international waters that we do not currently have. It is certainly a difficult legal story, and the agreement itself means that if two people agree after twenty years that it is definitely something good and positive. That's why I'm going to support this solution myself. Legal experts, of course, are extremely different in these opinions, but I am concerned that those who have negative thinking about predominant thinking already know in advance that the outcome for Slovenia will be negative and bad. But I don't view this as good and positive. I am concerned that everyone who has five minutes of time explains what and how this legal story is, but especially is an interesting practice, say, in Gorenjska or Upper Gorenjska, where this difficult, complicated story is also explained by those who have confirmed that they are legally wrong. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I will not repeat what has already been said a thousand times, but I will say this: look at the fact that we have a referendum on June 6th and not June 3rd, as was said a little earlier, and the debate on this question a little later, it is clever, good and argumentative that we have it - regardless of the outcome of the referendum. In fact, why? For a fundamental reason, because everyone is responsible for his actions, including the President of the Government, always, even in five years he will be responsible, because he himself says that in fact, as we know, the arbitrators will decide many years later when the likely duration of this government will expire. Then he will also be responsible - why not be responsible on June 13th? That's one thing. Another thing that seems very important to me, but it's the next. In the history of Slovenia, it has never been possible to decide on such important issues as the State border or the question of independence and so on, as we now decide. If, in the 1990s, or in the case of independence and events, Slovenia's entire and independent actions were to do as we now do, one group of Members would say yes, the other would vote against it, probably never come to that. It is true that some of them have hidden themselves, that some have said that we are going to eat grass, and they are today the most advocates, of course, of this arbitration agreement, which also applies later when we enter NATO, at the time of our entry into the EU. Politics has united; today it has not united. Today, the Prime Minister takes this as his own project, this is a project of his political future, so at least I understand him. But I also wrote on my website that I don't understand it anymore and I really don't understand it anymore. As for the debate a little earlier, Mr President of the National Assembly, I am, indeed, when you interrupted the House, but in the last second, you had already hoped that you had improved and you did not convince me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u270	Well, I didn't want to convince you of anything, but I'd like to ask you how you're going to vote on the motion for a decision. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] Is there still a desire to discuss it or to explain it? I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour of the debate on the response of the President of the Government to the sent question, because, like some others, I believe that Slovenia has the most favourable position in this part of Europe, is at the crossroads of the fifth and tenth corridors and has a free path to open waters on the Adriatic Sea. Given the kind of agreement we have before us, I am sure that our maritime route, our maritime window and, as a result, the fifth corridor are at risk. Some changes in the area of the fifth corridor are already being adopted. I will also vote in favour because I would like to clarify exactly what kind of contact we have. If we had territorial contact, that is to say that we would have gone across our land to the open sea, then we could have declared our own maritime belts. Since we have no such contact, it means that someone else will have to declare this and these bands and determine someone else. Each sovereign country shall freely determine the maritime zones, free of charge, in cases where it has its territorial sea and territorial contact with the high seas. They will be Croatia, Italy, we would have them if we had such contact, but we do not have such contact so that we can get to the rough sea, to the sea window, and that we can declare the sea belts there ourselves. Because that is not the case and because all the shadows of doubt, as our Prime Minister often says, must be clarified, then such a debate must be supported in order to clarify these doubts. That is why I will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to advertise, but still, in the Slovenian People's Party we've been fighting for the border since 25. 6. 1991 and demand that the Croats return from our territory back to where they were until 25. 6. 1991. You didn't support it, you didn't listen, you mocked our efforts. You didn't even listen to the two-thirds majority decide on an arbitration agreement here in the National Assembly. You left this to the citizens because you do not want to be guilty if Slovenia is no longer a maritime state. That is why I will vote in favour of the debate if we also talk after the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote against this proposal as I will vote in the referendum on the arbitration agreement. Otherwise, I will vote against this proposal because these explanations that I have listened to so far have spoken about everything else, just not about what it was. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u276	Colleague Pecan [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u277	No, I'm not. I'm talking about it. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u278	It is not possible to comment, to discuss other explanations. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u279	I'm not commenting on the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u280	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u281	but I am talking about the debate being held on the government's response to Mr. Cernač's question. [[...]] But we've heard all about the arbitration agreement. I don't think it makes sense to talk about the government's response to the question of what he was talking to Mrs Jadranka Kosor when she was here on a visit to Ljubljana. That doesn't make any sense. And that's why I'm going against it. That is why I will also be against this because I think that those who want to have these discussions will be very disappointed because, after a successful referendum, which will confirm the arbitration agreement with a large majority, they will, of course, have to look at the ground and hide under the bench here in the National Assembly in case they vote on this debate. That is why I will vote against them because I would like to help them not to be ashamed of the failed referendum against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I won't let you hide under the bench in the National Assembly. Voice explanation, Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! It is really interesting to listen in particular to all those who today are talking about things that they have wanted to resolve for quite some time to talk about voting against the agreement. Those who live on the border with the Republic of Croatia, in the immediate vicinity, we probably do not imagine this - regardless of customer affiliation or non-participating, as I am alone. I believe that this kind of discussion of colleagues, especially those who may be in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u284	Colleague of Brunskole [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u285	I'm sorry. Discussions of all those [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u286	It would be good if we heard from Mrs. Bredo Pecan earlier, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u287	Those who think about it are representatives of local communities, and they think about voting against the area they have chosen - I don't think so. [[...]] I have not appointed any gentleman, no fellow Member or Member of Parliament, but even if she lives along the Schengen border as I do. I think it's incorrect. I will vote in favour of an arbitration agreement and absolutely against such a proposal. I hope I didn't upset any of my colleagues. I didn't mean to, obviously, have a bad conscience. I live alone in the White Land, where people say to me, "Well, give people who think otherwise to put on the real ground!" And I think this arbitration agreement is going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Bojan Konticz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against the debate on the response of the President of the Government to the SDS's question at the next meeting - something has already been said: for the first time, because the meeting following the referendum on the arbitration agreement will be held, and because I am sure that this will not mean the continuation of the pre-referendum campaign, it would be good that these discussions in the National Assembly would not be there and that the opposition colleagues would not be able to comment on this meeting in this debate, in this debate, to refer to how in the arbitration agreement, what is stated does not mean determining the territorial contact of the Slovenian sea with the open sea, and thus to help the neighbours to argue what they consider in the arbitration agreement. It's about Slovenia. Second of all, why don't I support this debate. The reason is that this debate has already been held in explanation of vote today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u290	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 in attendance, 22 in favour, 39 in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Rudolph Petan, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to Rudolf Petan's question on the arbitration agreement. We're voting. There are 62 in attendance, 22 in favour, 40 in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Petr Verlič, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question by Dr Petr Verlič on the amendment of the international agreement on the construction of the railway section between Koper and Divac. We're voting. There are 61 in attendance, 22 in favour, 39 in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ziherl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to the question of Mr Milenk a Ziherl on the new situation in relations in the Balkans. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Aleksandr Zorn, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Culture Majda Širc to the question by Alexander Zorn concerning the preservation and protection of cultural heritage in Kobilna Lipica and the development of Slovenian tourism in Lipica. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the engagement in the rental of premises in Dimičeva, Ljubljana. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Three figures were probably accepted in public. I believe that all the coalition Members could have remembered them, so I wouldn't repeat them. At the interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, we have explicitly found out, and I think that this is already clear to everyone about the rental of the building on Dimičeva. I've repeated these numbers today, too, so I'm not going to repeat them. However, it is necessary to repeat or inform the Slovenian public and to request Members to support this proposal for a decision on the basis of a fundamental reason, since, after interpretation, it has been shown that the Minister of the Interior does not carry out her duties, but does not carry out her duties during work or at the time of service, but does so with her and her co-workers as a real estate agent for renting various buildings, and in particular for renting a building in Dimičeva, Ljubljana. What happened last year in April? Prosecutors have informed the prosecution that the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office from the Slovenian village of Dimičeva Street. Prosecutors were a little surprised, they looked hard, they thought they were not well informed, or they thought that criminals had misinformation. But it turned out to be true. On 16 July last year, the Minister of the Interior or her co-workers called the prosecution. And she wanted to see the premises in Slovenia, Madam Minister, as if she were a judicial and not an internal minister. There they were amazed and told to turn to the U.S. Attorney's Office. That is also what happened, on her behalf, that is where Minister Zalar and Mr Škrlec spoke as Secretary of State. Prosecutors have been told that they have too many spaces and that it is imperative to move to Dimič. Even the pictures showed them how beautiful the building was on Dimich. This means that, since the prosecutors refused to do so, only then did the Minister begin to rent the same building for the purposes of the National Investigation Office. This points to a coordinated action by both LDS ministers, Minister and Minister Zalar to provide premises in Dimitzeva. I believe the result of the interpolation was pretty sour, but mostly for those who supported the interpolation. That is why I am taking up the debate that I hope you will support, as a way of saving, in particular, those who have supported it, which, of course, does not apply to Really, but to SD in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-18-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Now, as others will vote on the decision, we don't know, but you will vote in favour or not, you said. Thank you so much for explaining your voice. Please, we're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
