ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Andreja Richter, Renata Brunskole, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Dr. Peter Verlic, mag. Branko Grimes, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Stefan Tisel, Janko Weber, Marijan Pojbič, Franc Jurša and Matjaž Zanoškar. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY – ON THE FIFTH OF THE YEAR REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2009. On the 15th regular year, the report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenki Cebašek Travnik, to further explain the report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Ministers, Ministers, Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! I thank you for inviting us to this session, and especially for the opportunity to speak together about the findings of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia as an institution established by our Constitution, as well as my assessment of the level of respect for human rights in 2009 in Slovenia. I would also like to thank the National Assembly that preparations for this meeting have been made in such an up-to-date and qualitative manner this year. The government’s response report also plays an important role in preparing today’s presentation. Its added importance is the fact that Slovenia presented this year a universal periodic report to the Human Rights Council of the United Nations and identified itself to these recommendations, 97 of which were received from other countries. It is a pity that these recommendations have not been heard or read enough in the public record so far, as they help us to see Slovenia in a different perspective. The Ombudsman will closely monitor the implementation of these recommendations and report on his findings. The Ombudsman's annual report to the National Assembly comes with a delay, which in fact relativises some of our findings and recommendations, especially those already made in the meantime. On the other hand, this time shift allows us to discuss some of the problems more and less emotionally. I am sure that you have received our annual report in both printed and electronic form and that you have been able to make an impression on it and have gone into those chapters that you are particularly interested in. For today's opening presentation of the annual report, I have selected a few points or conclusions with my colleagues. First, a few words about cooperation with national authorities and local authorities. In a number of areas, cooperation with the Government has been correct and, with most of the ministers and ministers we have invited, we have held working meetings at which we have also agreed to resolve individual initiatives or problems. It is right that I appoint some of those with which cooperation takes place in a very good way, such as the police and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. However, I am concerned that some ministers and ministries do not provide answers to our inquiries, nor do we get answers from the E.R. Of course I know you want to hear who it is. As far as cooperation is concerned as a basic tool for the Ombudsman's action, the situation is most acute in the Ministry of Environment and Space. In doing so, I must point out that, during my term of office, the Ombudsman has been replaced by three ministers and two governments, and I have met with all three ministers at least once, but none of the meetings has brought significant changes for the better. I also brought the issue to the attention of the President of the Government. Why is this cooperation so important and urgent for our work? Let me explain with the case. Instigators often complain that the authorities of the Ministry of Environment and Space do not provide them with answers and do not solve their cases. Since these same authorities have a similar strategy to the Ombudsman's inquiries, the initiators note and comment. Keeping away from the guardian's demands means obstructing the guardian's work. I think it is clear here that the Ombudsman's authority is failing, which is by no means in line with the 10th recommendation following the universal periodic report, which says that the State should strengthen the position of the Ombudsman. Slovenia is also implementing this recommendation at the principle level of acceptance and in the opinion of the Government, but our experience cannot at present confirm it. The second, equally important issue is the issue of control. For years now, the Ombudsman has warned that inspection services, as well as other forms of surveillance, do not work in such a way as to help people who expect to intervene. The answers from both governments, previous and current, are similar to the fact that they do not have enough staff in the inspection services to limit employment to increase the volume of work and so on. Such answers and excuses do not convince me, so we continue to stress the need to ensure the effective functioning of the inspection services and the implementation of their decisions. I am convinced that with better organisation of work and supervision of the work of inspections, there could be significant changes. I am also convinced that a mere linear reduction in resources and the number of employees without previous analyses will not result in savings or more efficient work. The actual situation in the area of inspection procedures raises the question whether the State wants to have effective inspection controls. Well, and because we do not exercise control ourselves, the supervisory institutions abroad, for example the Court of Justice of the European Union, which served on the day 12 of Slovenia. Ten. 2010 and shall be final from the date of service. The next topic to be discussed is legislative procedures. We have critically assessed the way in which laws and their amendments are adopted, and this government has also taken an important step forward and has at least formally tried to regulate this area, but we still see that some proposals and procedures are underthinking. As an example, I refer to the Law on Mental Health, which the Government in the response report claims is good and has also taken into account most of the Ombudsman's comments, but it is obvious that we will have to write about this law again in the annual report; also on the findings of a special working group dealing with the analysis of many comments, not only of the guardians that have been submitted months ago. We also continue to note that the public is also under-involved through various NGOs in the adoption of regulations both in the country and even more in the municipalities. The next important thing is concern for the disabled and the handicapped. Regardless of the type of disability or disease, regardless of age, whether they are children, adults or elderly, it is estimated that they have not been sufficiently affected. We are also reminded of this task by the fourth recommendation of the universal periodic report. Of course, we are aware that laws are being drawn up to resolve most of the shortcomings that we are alerting to, but the adoption of these laws takes time to propose, and this waiting is particularly embarrassing for those who actually promise the realization of some of their rights. At this point, I would also like to point out that the country's housing policy is not adequate for today's situation and is causing many social distress itself. We expect effective changes mainly for young families looking for opportunities for their first home, as well as solutions for all those who, due to low incomes, cannot actually pay the costs for the dwellings they live in. The municipalities must be obliged to provide sufficient housing units for those who do not have other options for obtaining housing. Labour relations are also a major area of inefficient protection of human rights. This is a problem that the Ombudsman has been alerting for years, both to non-payment of contributions from employers and to other violations of working relationships, such as torture and bullying in the workplace, and to black work. Unfortunately, we can conclude that these warnings have not been taken seriously enough, interestingly, by all governments since 2003, when the Ombudsman made this very clear and wrote, and the prosecution has found no signs of crimes as we could have read days ago, even though they are listed in the legislation. We pay particular attention to the rights of foreign workers, as the issue is being internationalised and at least partially summarised in the first recommendation of the universal periodic report. The Ombudsman's warnings and recommendations, regardless of who runs this institution and the period during which governments are responsible, are intended to solve the problems identified; problems closely linked to the protection or enjoyment of human rights. If the authorities do not follow these warnings and recommendations, problems will appear to us in a few years, much worse. And that's exactly what happened now. Similarly, some laws relating to the rights of persons with disabilities are applied to those whose disability is still assessed according to the 1983 list. To date, no government in Slovenia has shown genuine will to adopt more modern legislation in this area. Of course, I know that legislation is being drawn up, but I am afraid that some of the findings and recommendations will have to be repeated again, as we repeat the requests made by the material victims of World War II, the tenants of denationalised and domestic housing, the applicants for free legal assistance and more; and as it would be necessary to provide a uniform information service at the level of the municipalities so that people will not continue to be sent from door to door. In particular, we draw attention to the under-thinking reduction in resources and employees where the average citizen is most likely to face bureaucracy, such as administrative units, employment offices, social work centres. I would like to conclude with a brief reflection on communication. In dealing with the health problem, we have noticed a number of communication problems, so we have done a little research and asked all schools training for higher and higher or university levels of health to tell us how their students are teaching communication. It is encouraging that we have received answers from all of us, and it is less encouraging that it has become obvious that there is no uniform doctrine in this area, that each school therefore includes its contents and that, if all schools include all of these, it would be just right, according to our assessment. Part of the misunderstanding, at least in the field of health, could be addressed by better education of health workers on communication. I note that similar communication problems also occur in other areas and that we, the Ombudsman, as well as others, are preventing ourselves from working together to solve a particular problem or problem. Maybe some more information from our work. You may have already seen it in the report, however: the visibility and effectiveness of children's rights defenders is increasing. There is growing concern for environmental protection in the public and also in our work. Last but not least, we have witnessed the successful international conference we have prepared. The Ombudsman has an open door every month for NGOs and civil society, so that we can get direct information from them on human rights violations. We have a renewed website and as far as international cooperation is concerned, our operation or our model of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman or degrading penalties or behaviour has become internationally recognized and we hold seminars for many other ombudsmen or state preventive mechanisms where these are not ombudsmen. And last but not least, I think it's important for my cooperation with the mayors to do business outside the seat. This is about 10 a year and we also go to small municipalities where we first meet with the mayors, talk to the mayor/martials, these are rarer; talk about the current issues and then have a conversation with the initiators. Allow me to introduce my deputies. There are three of them with me today: mag. Cornelia Frost, Jernej Rovšek and Tone Dolčič. Fourth Deputy Ivan Shelih is abroad on a business trip that he could not move. Here, however, the present will help me to draw up answers that may need to be prepared at the time of the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President, to present the Commission's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. The Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities shall be held at the 17th session of 1. Ten. 2010 discussed the 15th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. The representative of the proponent, Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, presented to the report a supplementary explanation highlighting several problems: the failure of the public authorities to answer to citizens and the Ombudsman, the inefficiency of inspection services, which the Ombudsman has been alerting for years, insufficient care for disabled persons and handicapped persons, regardless of their type of disability or disease, and regardless of their age, the inadvertent adoption of laws and their changes, the inadequate housing policy of the State and so on. She is then president of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth mags. Majda Potat presented the written opinion of this Committee, which considered the report to be an interested working body. According to the opinion of the National Council of the Commission for State Regulations and the Commission for Social Protection, work, health care and disabled persons, the report is supported by the Commission. The Commission is proposed to the Ombudsman to examine the emergence of an in-depth distribution of the population in the future and to systematically monitor developments in economic and non-economic companies and to point out irregularities in their operations. The representative of the Government, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, said that the Government is aware of the reality of the problem which the report draws attention to and is aware of its responsibilities. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Damjan Lah, initially expressed satisfaction and pride at the Ombudsman's finding that cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ombudsman is quite high. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, State Secretary, Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak, initially said that at the Ministry of the Ombudsman's report they always study in detail and take his warnings seriously. The representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Chief Inspector of the Environment and Space Inspectorate, Mrs Aleksandra Velkkov, highlighted the following themes: the lack of staff inspectors according to the case. The highest incidence of cases is related to illegal construction and construction permits, a large amount of late work causing them to be held accountable for the course of proceedings by a number of authorities, non-execution of decisions and so on. Director of the Office for Equal Opportunities of Magi. Tanja Salecl said that gender discrimination in the report is not particularly exposed, which, according to her, means that recognition of discrimination is still poor. Advocate of the principle of equality, Mr Boštjan Vernik Šetinc, said that the advocate of the principle of equality did not have the necessary independence in order to be an effective mechanism to protect or prevent discrimination, and welcomed the appointment of a government working group that is now dealing with the study of this area. The discussion followed, of course, of the members and members of the committee, where a number of these have been exposed, and we will probably continue to talk about them. In particular, it was a problem of ineffective inspection of the inspection services due to the lack of staff, and concern for disabled and disabled persons, uncoordinated legal proposals in sensitive areas, non-payment of contributions to workers, inefficient environmental protection, social and legal issues, infringements of workers' labour rights, backlogs and so on. As working material, members and members of the Commission received a draft proposal for a recommendation containing a proposal for a recommendation and explanations. In the discussion, the Commission then included in the draft proposal recommendations further recommendations in the sections Discrimination, Protection of the Rights of the Child, as proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, and then chapters Restricting Personal Freedom, Justice, Environment and Space and Labour Relations. The Commission has proposed these recommendations as its own.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u6	Mr Vice-President, the Honourable Guardian and Deputys, the Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This year, with the presence of the Ombudsman, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia re-examined the Ombudsman's report with observations of irregularities, as presented in the report which is the subject of today's hearing. Not only are we aware that every year it is necessary to study very carefully and as far as possible to take action and address the shortcomings that the Ombudsman perceives in the implementation of policies that he is designing, proposes a single government and adopts the National Assembly, but there is a need to respond quickly in an area where people perceive a great gap between what the objectives of each policy were and on the other hand by implementing it. We are aware of the shortcomings of our own actions in the government. The extensive response report we have submitted shows that in 2009, we have eliminated some of the significant shortcomings detected by our activities in 2008, some at systemic level, and we need to deepen substantially the part that will be what is stated in the regulation or what we are charged with overseeing the individual regulation, also effectively enforced, as it is written, effectively and thus will not violate the human rights and expectations of our citizens. We have, of course, taken the Ombudsman's warnings very seriously in 2009 to address the problems of the most vulnerable groups in our society. As a result of the crisis, this rapid and effective action was most necessary in securing social security rights for the situation of unemployed, social exclusion and the integration of those who, due to long-term unemployment, are losing confidence in the rule of law and the social state. Furthermore, in the part where we had to resolve the issue of payment non-discipline, we have found in many areas that the recommendations of the National Assembly are no longer repeated when dealing with the Ombudsman's reports, which is good; it is good because the administration has managed to address the shortcomings. The swift response to what is before us every year is the task that is underlined in the future before every public authority by red – at least before the current government – and the awareness of all of us who are here today and we are available for answers as to how we will detect the shortcomings that the guardian has detected in the new one, that the next year will no longer be in the report, there is much. The commitment to respect for the rule of law is also demonstrated by the intensive elimination of the anti-constitutional situation in the way in which we implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court; accelerated, significantly more effective than the practice in the past. In the area of inspection services in one of the few areas, we have allowed the number of employees not to decrease, but to occupy all the systemised jobs. In short, the Government commits itself to doing everything at each time's report to make the gap between the expectations of our citizens and citizens regarding the enforcement of human rights increasingly diminish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u8	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers, respectable Ombudsman, Secretary of State! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the report of the Ombudsman for 2009. At the hearing of the Ombudsman's report in the DeSUS Group, of course, we come from the belief that the Ombudsman must defend human rights and fundamental freedoms in the course of his work and offer his hand to all who are violated or disabled, especially to the most vulnerable groups of the population. The Institute of the Ombudsman is therefore established to control the work of the State by reminding of the shortcomings of the legal rules and the functioning of the State authorities, when the question arises as to the provision of the foundations of the rule of law and the social state as declared in the Constitution by the Republic of Slovenia. In 2008, at the hearing of the 14th report of the Ombudsman, we adopted the recommendations of the National Assembly for the first time, so that we can also consider information on the implementation of these recommendations at the same time as this report. It is very important to draw the thread of what was found in the previous report with data on the implementation of the proposed. Of course, it is clear that in general things are going in a positive direction. However, the conclusion would still be that there will be a need to continue and to make constant efforts to ensure that the situation is satisfactory and appropriate. We are aware that many changes take time and that they cannot be accepted and enforced overnight. It is necessary to draw on the analysis of the situation and to adopt measures that will effectively address all weaknesses and irregularities that deny the foundations of socialism, justice and respect for law. The report is extensive. Let me highlight some of the areas that we see as particularly problematic in the DeSUS Group, otherwise permanent, especially at a time when the area of social affairs is particularly sensitive. This is particularly important for all the most vulnerable groups of people, such as people with disabilities, children, the elderly, who do not have a non-governmental organisation apparatus to implement programmes and projects to achieve their objectives in a just manner. Older people are often unjustifiably excluded from social developments and from the preparation and formulation of strategies directly affecting them. According to our assessment, the special care given to an ageing society should apply to older people who turn to their guardians much less than other categories of the population. In our view, preventive programmes should continue to be developed to ensure the quality of life for the elderly and to preserve their inclusion in the social environment and beyond. In doing so, we must not forget the commitment set out in the coalition agreement to set up an office for the elderly during the current term of office. I repeat: we will establish an office for the elderly during the current term of office. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the area of creating an integrated issue of the older population is particularly important for a society that is rapidly ageing. More than one-fifth of the population over 60 years of age is aware of the need for active engagement of the Slovenian political and social environment to address the integrated problem of ageing society and consequently of longevity. In the spirit of awareness of the complexity and global importance of issues relating to the third life period, it is therefore necessary to set up an organisation at government level that would deal comprehensively and in an integrated manner with issues relevant to older people and as a government institution ensure cooperation with non-governmental senior organisations in the identification of problems and in the preparation of legislation, policymaking and monitoring, implementation and effectiveness of their actions. The Ombudsman also highlights in this year's report areas that are still problematic for the population of the elderly. In the first place, it is a problem of poverty faced by older people, making them increasingly dependent on their relatives. On the other hand, let me also point out that in the economic crisis, the resulting unemployment has caused a situation where pensioners are increasingly those who are financially helping their children and grandchildren. The institutional protection issue remains open on the one hand, lack of spatial home capacity, long waiting periods, although the Ombudsman has not received any initiative on the subject, and on the other hand the prices of services and care for the situation of our pensioners and their relatives are virtually unattainable. Thus, after our conclusion, more and more elderly and disabled people remain at home. The guardian also warns that the cost of care must be such that it is available to most of the elderly. However, it is necessary to plan standard services in institutional protection also by providing home providers with a sufficient level of privacy so that they will not be subject to superstandard prices. In other words, encouraging information that the target of 5 % of the inclusion of older than 65 years of age in institutional protection has been achieved should be further pursued in order to increase this share. The Ombudsman warned that in Slovenia there is a more systematic monitoring concern for older people living alone. More and more are people who want to stay at home as long as possible in the home environment. We agree that it is therefore necessary to establish conditions that will allow this to happen. Therefore, let the law on long-term care be a priority. It will also be necessary to implement measures that will allow and encourage the field work of volunteers, professional services of social work centres and unemployed persons through inclusion in public works and other forms. For the latter, the proposed social entrepreneurship could make a very positive contribution to improving the current situation. Concern for dementia is also an area that is quite malnourished in our society. Once again, the general problem of poverty and the increase in social dispersion, the poor material situation of many families and individuals, which are reflected in the increasing number of social threats of the weakest members of our society, are not only repeated annually, but poverty has been a constant in our space for quite some time. And regardless of the impact of the economic crisis and the high unemployment rate, which, of course, has worsened, families with schooling children, single unemployed persons and older persons stand out in particular. More and more individuals and families are in such a social and economic situation when they are hampered and even denied access to all the goods that the social state is supposed to provide to all. Health care, education, housing policy and justice are particularly exposed. The right to education and consequently the free choice of profession is becoming increasingly conditioned by the amount of material resources of the family. The same is true of accessibility to health services. The Ombudsman is facing an increasing number of people who, despite taking advantage of all available forms of cash and other assistance, are unable to pay the bills for the apartment and the related other costs. Many facts prove that the real picture of poverty is worse than what the State perceives. The Ombudsman points out that it is essential to obtain data on the real level of poverty in Slovenia and to develop a national strategy for the eradication of poverty and its emerging forms. In the DeSUS Group, we have purposely dedicated all the time to social issues, with the wish and appeal of the State that this is a topic which must not remain marginal. Otherwise, as mentioned in the introduction, the report is only very extensive, correct and well prepared as it has always been. There are also large-scale recommendations that are prepared for each content area individually. In the parliamentary group, we are very positive about the Ombudsman's work and we assess the report as the integrity of the presentation, findings and opinions on the state of human rights in our country. It means a good starting point and a direction to the Government, ministers and other state authorities to make the best possible effort to realize the human rights of every citizen and citizen, as well as of all other citizens in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u10	Your Honor, Mr Vice-President, the Honourable Ombudsman, the Honourable Minister and the Ministers! As part of our consideration of the Ombudsman's annual report, we would like to draw the attention of the Slovenian National Party's Group in particular to the current, in our opinion, most acute human rights violations. Despite the fact that last year's issue is covered in the report, there are areas where major problems still exist, which means that it has not been sufficiently addressed in this area. Above all, I would like to touch on the problems of workers. The right to personal income and the social and health rights resulting from this are undoubtedly the basis for the dignity of the survival of people and their family members. This is a dangerous situation, as many people are already asking the logical question whether Slovenia is even a social state. Recent examples give us the opportunity to know that some supervisory institutions have completely failed in this area. More and more individuals are being hampered or even denied access to the goods that the social state is supposed to provide to all. More and more, we all see capitalism trampling on human rights. I have no reason not to believe everything you have written, for surely you have written down what is an integral part of today's life. While it is difficult to describe the feelings of people who are deceived and exploited by dignity and honor when they have been taken as a basic one, as enshrined in the Constitution, especially the right to work, because they are cheated and not paid for by contributions and work and left in uncertainty, so those who, as we would like to say, enjoy before the law the fruits that come out of fraud and deception and nothing happens to them. When I compare the 2008 report with the current one, there are no major differences, as they cannot be in the final phase, as the situation is not improving, but there are more and more irregularities present for the Ombudsman, and as trends go on, the Ombudsman's work will not run out. It is clear that the report for the following year will become thicker, because when we monitor the media, the messages and knowledge of human rights violations are frightening, which should identify all society and not only the Ombudsman. Obviously, the Ombudsman has no influence, for otherwise certain violations would not be repeated. It is certainly one thing that law enforcement authorities do not do their work there as necessary, but they discipline themselves and punish those who have no opportunity to defend themselves and see the way out only in humility and wait for a better tomorrow. All of this comes from companies that have recently shared large profits and rewards – that there will be no misunderstanding, only owners and business authorities, and the worker has always been forgotten. The imaginary elite, who practically cares only for the "own asses" and its minions, usurped the country, and neither the spirit nor the hearing of prosperity for its own citizens, where there should be a fair, trustworthy rule where diligence, reciprocity, intergenerational co-existence and solidarity would be appreciated. As a result, the Ombudsman notes in his report that the level of material resources is increasingly affecting the availability of health services, that those on the social side of dental care are virtually unattainable due to long waiting lines, and not least where and how children will be educated. It starts with pre-school care, continues with differences in school success and primary school activities, the choice of secondary school and the decision to study. In spite of the increasing unemployment, however, it will be necessary to redefine the real limits of poverty. Low wages also make it impossible for families whose families still have jobs to survive and, on the other hand, for individuals who, despite taking advantage of all available forms of money and other assistance, still cannot pay monthly bills. A terrible situation, described in the annual report, is that relatives take older people out of their homes for the elderly because they felt good and had all the care because they simply no longer have money to pay or pay for such services. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that this is not the direction of development that we would like for our country and for which we have fought. In Slovenia we have long had serious problems with the non-responsibility of the authorities responsible for action. While the Ombudsman points only to the non-responsibility of the authorities to which she refers, we can all imagine what opportunities an individual has if the failure of the authorities is even present with the Ombudsman, who is given the right to receive information by law. Such a trend in the development of our country already lays the foundations of constitutional regulation, universally guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the rule of law. Because it means recognizing the inherent human dignity of all members of human society and their equal and inalienable rights as the foundation of freedom and justice, because denial and the trampling of human rights have led to the barbaric acts offensive to human conscience, because the creation of a world in which we would not live in fear and lack is known for the greatest efforts of mankind and because it is imperative that human rights be protected by the power of law, that man be not forced to resort to rebellion in extreme force, and because our country has decided to support social progress and the creation of better living conditions, and also because we have committed ourselves to promoting general and genuine respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in the Slovenian Group of National Parties, we strongly and firmly appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take all measures that are within its competences to ensure that every human rights are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Respected Ombudsman with co-workers, Madam Minister with representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague, welcome! We have before us, as every year, the report of the Ombudsman, both the report and the recommendations of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. First of all, we find that the same recommendations appear year after year. This time, the difference is that the government's cooperation has been exposed, as there have been several working meetings with representatives of individual ministries, where it has been trying to find and agree on a solution to initiatives and problems across areas. Not with everyone, as the Ombudsman has warned, but we believe that this practice will improve and continue in the future. On the Commission for Petitions, the Ombudsman explained the report and drew attention to the main problems faced by the Office in its work, namely: the irresponsibility and slow response of public authorities to citizens and citizens as well as to the Ombudsman; the inefficiency of inspection services, which has been alerted for several years; the issue of adequate care for people with disabilities and disabilities; the issue of national minorities, both national minorities, which are specifically defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as in the constitution of unnamed national communities; the inadequate housing policy of the State, which causes many social hardships, especially to young families and people with low income; violations of labour law to domestic and foreign workers; the protection of personal data and the intervention of employers; discriminatory treatment in the field of labour law; the multi-annual warning of the Ombudsman on the non-payment of workers's contributions; the protection of personal data from the field of public procurement and the rule of law; the rule of law governing the law of law; and the law of law governing of the law; the law of the law of the law of the law; the Ombudsman's in question; the Ombudsman's in question of petition. In general, representatives of the Government have explained that they are aware of the reality of the problem which the report recalls and that they are fully aware of their part of the responsibility, especially during the period of crisis, as social issues have become more sensitive, sensitive and visible. Therefore, the Government has already adopted a series of measures, which are listed in the government’s response to the report. Also due to the financial and economic crisis facing Slovenia, when individual issues of social issues became even more acute and visible, the government adopted a number of measures. Let me only point out some of the measures taken and envisaged by the Government or ministries in view of the current nature of the problem and the repeated warnings in this and in the previous report of the Ombudsman. A number of measures and laws have already been adopted at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In the area of family policy, the issue will be addressed within the framework of the family code, which is already in the legal process. A number of laws have been adopted in the area of the social situation of citizens. Let me mention, as an example, the full-time subsidy law and the Act on a Special Supplement for the Socially Intended, which have both brought about the objectives and effects set in terms of mitigation during the worst economic crisis. The disability problem is addressed by the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted at third reading. A law on long-term care and a law on personal assistance will soon be transmitted in the legislative process. The lack of staff in inspection services will also be addressed by law on prevention of work and on black employment. They also joined in monitoring social agreements with the former republics of the country of Yugoslavia. The new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which ended its first hearing this week, addresses the current issue of non-payment of social contributions by the employer. The Ministry of Public Administration said that it was already working with NGOs on the issue of volunteering. The recommendation draws attention to the necessity of drafting and adopting a law on volunteering. By the way, the law has already been published on the Ministry's website. The Ministry of the Interior stressed that they had moved forward in the field of international protection towards improving standards for applicants and persons with recognised international protection. Let me also mention that NGOs have been involved and taken into account in the drafting of the amendment to the Law on International Protection. In addition, the implementation of NGO programmes financed by the European Refugee Fund improves and improves the quality of housing and international protection standards for applicants with the aim of integrating into Slovenian society. The planned education and training of police officers and criminals in the field of domestic violence has further improved. They were particularly pleased with the Ombudsman's assessment of the Ministry's work in the field of human rights. Finally, special attention has been given to this area and a number of measures have been taken. The Ministry of Education and Sport commended good cooperation with the Ombudsman and drew attention to the need for research on the role of the Ombudsman in the system of power-sharing. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we find this thought meaningful, especially in the light of monitoring the realization of human rights, both the work and the tasks of the Ombudsman and the question of where this institution is going and the role it should play in our political system. As the first problem arising year after year, the representative of the Ministry of Justice highlighted the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions, although the Ombudsman did not find any serious violations of the rights of prisoners in the sense of inappropriate conduct. The station is still a prison situation, primarily with regard to spatial problems and too few guards. Some measures have already been taken, some are still working, for example, on free legal aid, which, as the representative says, is unfortunately linked to large budgetary resources. They will therefore try to find a solution to bring about a positive outcome through the use of legal remedies. Finally, let me mention the key messages by the representative of the Ministry of Health. At the Ministry, they focus on improving the quality and safety of medical treatment and agree with the Ombudsman that communication is crucial. Regarding the regulation of mental health – the law has proved difficult in practice and does not produce the desired results, so a working group has been set up to try to find the right solutions. The Ombudsman's annual report is as extensive as ever, and this time it seems even more extensive than it has been in the past. In all the areas covered by the report, from constitutional rights problems to the protection of children's rights, which are given special care and attention by the current Ombudsman, the real problems facing individuals every day are described very thoroughly; findings, opinions and proposals are provided. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will support the report, as we are pleased with both the report and the government's response opinion. A number of progress has been made, more has been made in certain areas, in certain areas little less, but we would still appeal to both the Ombudsman and the Government and other state authorities to take on greater commitment and more effective treatment of the human rights issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Laszlo Göncz has the floor on behalf of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Lady of Human Rights with colleagues, distinguished representatives and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, on the basis of the content of the activities of the Ombudsman, which is well-transparent in the annual report, it is possible to conclude that this institution has an increasingly important role to play in a democratic society as well. Our view is that the quality of the work of the Ombudsman is good. And since we are also recording positive movements from the point of view of indigenous national communities, we will support the 2009 report. Only the 2009 report, in its work on national and ethnic groups, points out that in the field of institutional cooperation between national communities and the establishment of the Ombudsman, movement towards the right direction is detected. This conclusion in our Group of Members, as I have already pointed out, is fully confirmed, but I would add that the Ombudsman, as well as her co-workers, has been particularly committed in the past year and ready for this kind of cooperation. In the past year, due to bilateral engagement, several activities have been devoted to ensuring greater visibility of the activities of the Ombudsman among members of indigenous national communities. Both within the framework of the Commission for the National Communities of the National Assembly and in the field, we have dealt with this important content. I do not argue that the situation in terms of the intervention of possible infringements of the rights of members of the national communities to the Office is already entirely satisfactory, as further efforts will be needed in this regard, but the initial successes are undoubtedly visible. Over the past year, members of indigenous national communities and the national institution have warned the Ombudsman of certain inconsistencies and alleged violations that have already continued to occur in the national mixed area. Among these, the report specifically mentions problems in the exercise of the rights of national communities in the use of mother tongues in national authorities, for example, the lack of translation of regulations and bilingual forms, further in the economy, as well as in such an important area as education. The Ombudsman in the report rightly raises the issue of the lack of so-called observable bilinguality and not always appropriate social climate or situations that are not always favoured by minorities. I can point out that, unfortunately, even in the current year, the situation is similar to that of more and more negative phenomena, both in terms of difficulties in paying a bilingual supplement in the context of RTV, and inconsistencies in the recognition of diplomas. In other areas, too, national communities face continuous inefficiency or systemic inadequacy and, in many cases, lack of control mechanisms. In this context, I will also mention the problems of the national communities of a collective character, which was regularly highlighted in discussions with the Ombudsman. Among others, this is a gap between the legal standards on the protection of national communities and the implementation of these standards in everyday life, the lack of functioning or non-action of evaluation mechanisms and the comprehensive control of the implementation of legal standards for the protection of indigenous national communities, and would specifically mention the non-compliance with these standards, so that the failure to respect these standards is most evident in the public and official use of the language of indigenous national communities in national mixed areas. According to our assessment, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and legislation in addition to certain economic entities are sometimes violated by the State, municipalities and other public institutions, not only in the field of the public and official use of the language of the national communities, but also in other cases, such as inconsistent compliance with Article 15 of the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities. We also assess, on the basis of the Ombudsman's report, that there is a need to increase awareness of the role and situation of indigenous national communities in the educational system, in the media, in the cultural field and in science and research, in the sense that this represents the actual added value of that area and indirectly of Slovenian countries. Finally, I should like to point out that the report's conclusion that Slovenia's position on the institutional level has actually been well regulated is true. However, in practice, unfortunately, we record irregularities and violations that the guardian or guardian does not even know about. And all of this encourages us to cooperate even more fully with the Ombudsman, and above all, it justifies our repeated need for the systematic upgrading of national law, with the general law on the exercise of the rights of the national communities constituting an essential step in the right direction, primarily in terms of the consistency of the implementation of de jure in fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respected Head of Human Rights, Deputy and Deputy, Members and Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Article 3 of the Law on the Ombudsman states that the Ombudsman shall, in his work, comply with the provisions of the Constitution and international legal acts on human rights and fundamental freedoms. It can also refer to the principles of fairness and good governance in its interventions. It is precisely from the point of view of article 3 of the Law on the Ombudsman of the Group of Social Democrats that we also assess the 15th Regular Report of the Ombudsman for 2009. The submission of the regular annual report to the President of the National Assembly by July allows the National Assembly to hold a debate on the report and respond to it at a time of business, that is, in the autumn session. Equally important is the government’s response report to each report. We therefore pay equal attention to both documents in the Group of Social Democrats. It is therefore necessary to add 141 pages to the 385 pages of this year's annual report covering the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly on the 14th Annual Report 2008 and to the Government's opinion on the 15th Annual Report. Since the 15th report also retains a recast regime which at the end of each chapter sets out a summary of proposals and recommendations, it is possible to compare the number of recommendations quickly. We are aware that such a procedure is of limited importance because there is a lack of substantive analysis, but it points to a trend that has been observed all the years now: for the first time that the number of recommendations is increasing, and for the second time that some recommendations are being repeated, but with tangible improved cooperation with the Government and individual ministries, some have been particularly pointed out in the additional report. For some of the recommendations to be repeated, it is also noted in the 15th, although for more than a decade the long-standing warning on the irregular situation erased by the adoption of the law in the future, at least as regards the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, will be withdrawn. The fifteenth annual report contains 152 proposals and recommendations, 72 of which are repeated from the 14th. That the report has mirrored social relations and that the consequences of the economic and financial crisis are already apparent, the fact is that the most recommendations are also reiterated in the chapter of Social Affairs and Unemployment: 23 and 10, so there are 33 of them, and more than half of them are unfulfilled recommendations relating to constitutional rights, discrimination, administrative matters, the environment and space, housing matters, public services, all three of them, and the protection of children's rights. This review does not, of course, take into account what has been achieved this year and what the government's response report points out. Of course, we cannot go beyond the fact that only the executive branch of government at national level can take responsibility for all proposals and recommendations. In particular, a number of things are addressed to local authorities this year, and it is not possible to say that everything is only in law. All too often, it is not possible to establish that infringements are a result of poor or defective legislation. It is all too often a matter of failure to comply with the rules adopted and abandoning the duty of officials who should enforce them in order to avoid infringements of rights. But a particular problem is the occurrence of, for example, peer-to-peer violence, domestic violence, all too much hidden violence against the elderly, hate speech, interference with the media with privacy and other phenomena resulting from individual behavior, its position or the lack of ethical and moral imperative. In the Social Democrats' Group, we attach to the Ombudsman that the Family Code proposal, whose main purpose is to improve the situation of children in family relations, either before and after the court proceedings, is of paramount importance. It is therefore very important that the Ombudsman also gave him support, although some of the provisions of the Family Code are strongly opposed by some of the public. In the Group of Members, we believe that the proposal for the final application of what the Ombudsman has been working on for years. This is a ban on corporal punishment of children, the enforcement of the child's rights and the prevention of discrimination. The public is not equally sensitive to all problems, so a number of warnings and recommendations from the Ombudsman’s reports are ignored or forgotten. Particularly common are the reports that he is too busy dealing with minority problems, not the problems of the majority. In order to illustrate the discussion under the RTV Slovenia Act, concerning the mention of members of the national communities of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, of course citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Their designation has been accompanied by expressions that have completely missed the purpose of the applicants, and even worse, we have witnessed the exaggeration that this will bring RTV to the new regulation and thus a great cost, which will result in the programme being cut short, not to mention the announcement of five new Members, representatives of these communities in the National Assembly and more. It is no wonder, then, that in one of the journals it was possible to read that they had received a member in the world — under the current law and after the previous programming world — which, of course, does not correspond to the truth. How many efforts, just to compare, it was necessary to submit that RTV management complied with sensory disability requirements. There was also an excuse for the costs to escape. And this raises the question of responsibility and the task of the public service. As the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats will complement the debates of Members and Members, I will not particularly touch on individual chapters and cases of the Ombudsman's report. Let me add the following. For the Group of Social Democrats, the annual report is an essential document for the assessment of the state of human rights in Slovenia, although we do not deny the importance of other reports, particularly those accompanying the realization of human rights at international level. This is the case with reports within the United Nations, which are nine such different reports, the Council of Europe, which are, say, four, and I am not talking about annual reports, but this is just a series of reports, such as the European Commission's report against racism and discrimination, as well as the European Parliament. Of course, it is impossible to draw a straight line from one to the other because of the different reporting methodology. I would now like to touch on three more things: in the Ombudsman's report, gender-based discrimination is not particularly mentioned, although, for example, in the development report, it can be seen that in 2009 it is possible to establish that Slovenia is ranked 29th in the human development index, but that the criterion of power distribution per sex is 34th in the world. So there's a slight gender balance. However, even though this is not specifically mentioned, I should stop in the event of some phenomenon, to which the Ombudsman also warns – this is the insufficient institutional independence of the advocate of the principle of equality. On this issue, we in our parliamentary group, as well as in the coalition agreement, have pointed out that steps must be taken towards achieving this independence. In doing so, we have also witnessed an attempt at a different organisation of the Institute, drawing attention to the dispersion of the treatment of the principle of equality, drawing attention to the five different existing offices, which each at their own level or within their respective competences touch on the principles of equal treatment or the principle of equality, and we have also heard a call for the establishment of an additional office. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that the establishment of each new office is always accompanied on the one hand by concerns about higher costs and staffing needs. However, it is not possible to go beyond the fact that European legislation is also a commitment to the implementation of these recommendations by the advocate of the principle of equality. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect what will show the functioning of the Interdepartmental Working Group to prepare a comprehensive institutional regime for ensuring equality and protection against discrimination. The other thing I intend to touch is the initiatives, so to speak, of specialised guardians. Almost every report reveals an initiative to establish a new guardian institution, a guardian of professional interests or some other group. And here, in the Group of Members, we join the opinion and reflection of the Ombudsman that such initiatives should include the relationship of competence between individual institutions. Finally, let me give at least one compliment to the Ombudsman when he mentioned good cooperation with the working bodies of the National Assembly. Therefore, if I conclude, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a recommendation to the 15th Regular Report of the Ombudsman for 2009 and on behalf of the Group of Members, I express my recognition and gratitude to the Ombudsman for his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you so much again for saying that. Respectable Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the fifteenth periodic report of the Ombudsman for 2009. Certainly, as has been the case all these years, it is a considerable amount of material that offers us some insight into the situation of human rights protection, of course respect for human rights, as well as the sanctioning of human rights violations. As a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and also as President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I can say that this year's report is, in my opinion, the most transparent ever made. It accurately defines the problems of individuals and groups who are or are still addressing the Ombudsman. As we can see, all those who have held the report in hand and read it or flown it are significantly thicker, it has several pages, which may also indicate that the hardships and problems of people in Slovenia have increased. This is not even so unusual if it comes from the situation currently in the country: on the one hand, we have considerable unemployment, which continues to increase; we know the problem of exploiting workers, not paying workers for their work, working in extremely difficult situations without stopping, for example, if we look at the case of the construction of the Stožice. We are in an extremely serious and difficult economic situation that is exacerbated, despite the Prime Minister's high-flying words about how we will get out of the crisis stronger and better. In view of the extremely slow action taken by the Government, I fear that this will not be the case. Hence, we have tribulations for individuals who do not even have the basic means of survival in these critical times. Let's just look at the situation in Koroška where a real social bomb occurred, which then exploded at all levels in the event of the bankruptcy of Prevent because of irresponsible owners who came to this property in extremely strange circumstances. It is absurd that the country, the Red Cross and Karitas eventually help the unemployed, who are in extremely great social distress, while irresponsible owners still live in infinite wealth. Thus, a large number of families have landed at the social bottom, without income, without work, and thus have been deprived of a certain right under the Constitution to a life of dignity and dignity. Of course, we have a completely different picture on the other side. We have a wealth of individuals at the expense of the State, which the Government makes available to them uncompromisingly and obviously also openly supports them in these actions. In particular, in this last week, I have been monitoring the debates on the web forums, but I will not talk about the fact that there is a lot of hate speech there, which should have already been legally sanctioned on these portals, but in recent times the responses of people who have been very constructive have not only attacked a certain person on the first ball, for example, mentioned on the web portal. I must say that I understand the anger and anger of people who have been directly appalled by the actions of individuals coming from the narrowest circle of the Prime Minister. Of course, people are rightly asking themselves, in view of the situation in which individuals find themselves, when they do not have a decent, the most basic survival, how is it possible for someone to receive 350 000 euros of credit for the renovation of the house, even though after all the calculations made by some of the media on the basis of the facts, that person’s income does not withstand such a financial burden. Not to mention that the workers of Vegrad would then even rebuild this house during the working hours when they were to work on the construction site of the Celov Castles. And more! These same workers are supposed to be restoring this house with the construction material of Celovské dvory, which, after reporting to the media that asked these workers not to be mistaken, they are driving daily to the construction site of the person who is currently sitting closest to the Prime Minister of the Government. Only the Ombudsman's report shows that the Ombudsman's institution is certainly already sufficiently recognised in this area, which, of course, gives it additional weight and power to lead human rights matters in the right direction. In this report, we can read what has been done in the field of human rights protection, in which cases things have improved, we can see which matters have remained open, where the legislative branch of government and the executive branch of government should do much more where things have deteriorated. In short, this is an extremely important record and a cross-section of the state in all areas of operation of the State and also in individual cases dealt with by the Ombudsman and his co-workers. However, it is interesting to see what attitude the Government has shown to the Ombudsman or to the 2009 report that we are now considering here. We received the government's response report only on the day of the meeting, just before the beginning, so that the members and members could not read it at all before the meeting, nor could they fly over. They were delivered to my office 15 minutes earlier, and, of course, we took them to the Commission's meeting on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities. The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšič, upgraded the relationship between the Government and the Ombudsman with his debate at the same commission meeting, where he said that since the Ombudsman would soon mark the twentieth anniversary of his establishment, it would be necessary, in his view, to carry out a study on the role of the Ombudsman institution in the system of division of power, or on the extent to which the Ombudsman's institution still deals with human rights, and how much it already assumes other roles, which also fall within the field of the executive and legislative branches of authority. It is also interesting that Dr Lukšič felt that the National Assembly was no longer a place to discuss the purpose and powers of the Ombudsman's institution. It is interesting to see a representative of the political option, which is known as a great defender of human rights and also of the Ombudsman's institutions, at least in the previous term it was, and none of the members or members of the coalition on this committee have responded to this debate for petitions. The report we have before us certainly sets a mirror for all of us in politics, especially the current ruling coalition. It's just the way it always is. Those who are in power are still under additional scrutiny, both the opposition and, of course, I hope, also the Ombudsman. I think that this report is also clear. The current state of the country, which is in great economic and social distress, is certainly the responsibility of the current government, and it is absolutely not in its hands that the guardian within the report warns that most of last year's recommendations are repeated, because the Government simply does not implement them and does not follow the Ombudsman's instructions to improve the situation in the field of human rights. The only progress made in last year has been made in the area of deleted, but now from the country, it seems, will receive compensation because they did not respond, because of speculation, at the time to the country's calls to regulate their status. This is the only matter that the Government has dealt with very rapidly in the field of human rights protection in the previous year. In the introductory part of the report, the Ombudsman also raises two important questions in my opinion, including the moment in which we are and where this country is located. The Ombudsman wonders for the first time whether Slovenia is still a rule of law, and for the second time whether Slovenia is still a social state. Very important, essential questions that are also raised by those who are watching us today, or by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let us take a closer look at these two questions, which are still in place at this point. The Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has also been very much concerned with the question of whether we are a social state, so I convened a meeting a while ago, which caused some excitement by coalition Members, but at this meeting we did not talk about anything other than whether workers and workers in Slovenia still have such labour and social rights as to guarantee them a certain right to personal dignity and security through the Constitution. We have come exclusively from current starting points that show a devastating situation in the area of social rights in relation to workers, especially those who come from Bosnia and want only to pay for what they have done, so that they can simply survive themselves and their families. Also, a number of Slovenian working families, unfortunately, are not lagging behind them, and these are serious and real problems of this country, and the Ombudsman also draws attention to them in her report. It is also interesting that Prime Minister Borut Pahor told us at the press conference that more than 3,000 companies do not pay contributions to workers, but it is even more interesting that the Prime Minister did not report this to the law enforcement authorities, even though it is a crime. That's a serious problem. However, in this country, for example, we are obviously doing more to enable people from the former republics of the common country to have programming content related to their environment, rather than to deal with ensuring a person a decent life. Most of all, we are still dealing with the same-sex, deleted, Roma, while we have been forgetting the problems of individuals who have been waiting years to solve their problems. The question of whether Slovenia is still a rule of law and which is raised in the report by the Ombudsman is undoubtedly on the ground. The Ombudsman points to judicial backlogs; despite Lukend's project, which was carried out in the previous term, the backlogs are still here and we should certainly do more in this area. The Ombudsman also draws attention to dissatisfaction with the work of judicial experts, points out the dissatisfaction of people with the work of lawyers, points out the inequalities that take place within the country. And in this case it is not possible to overlook or simply cannot pass through the Baricevic affair, where, in the event of the return of dangerous dogs, the owner was first cancelled by the rule of law and then cancelled by the rule of law for the second time in the case of Mr Meglic, who has not received any compensation for the attack on dogs today, which almost cost him his life. In this second case, when the legal state was played, the legal mills are grinding extremely slowly. In the event of the return of dogs to the owner, where they have been proven to be dangerous and not to be returned to the owner, however, due to connections, friendly, political – in short, we have already processed all of this at the time of the Minister of Home Affairs’ interpretation – everything has simply been arranged very quickly, almost overnight. Whether we are still a legal country, it is certainly also due to the rise in economic crime that the Ombudsman asks in her report. Let's just give you some examples. Vegrad, where the exploitation of workers occurred, is not paying the workers. Not to mention that Vegrad's workers were raising money for people, and then the board got them that money. The case of Pahor’s closest associate, where there was or was supposed to be an abuse of position. Talum, this is a conflict of interest. The state company was working for its own company; we also know who is in charge in the Talum. Mercury, Pivovarna Laško, Istrabenz, a questionable business of the sons of the Ljubljana mayor, where land trade took place, we also know this story. And banks that approve loans without insurance, of course, only those dedicated, top-ranking – elites – could say more precisely. Given that we are talking about the concept of the rule of law, which has also been highlighted by the respected Ombudsman, it seems to me that there is nothing wrong with looking at things in the direction that I have now pointed. Let's see what the participants said about economic crime by addressing the Parties to responding to economic crime. This was a consultation prepared by the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana 2. 6. 2010 And if, for starters, I just take away some of their findings, which are extremely important for this place we're in. Firstly, Slovenia has covered economic crime limitation. Secondly, in the pursuit of economic crime, he shut down the whole system. Thirdly, the involvement of the police, the prosecution and other supervisory institutions is poor. And fourthly, the problem is political interference. These are the four key things that have been brought together by people at this seminar, which are certainly competent to talk about the current situation of the country in the area of economic crime and, of course, the rule of law issue raised by the Ombudsman in her report. The former Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Goran Klemenčič, and now the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, stressed, inter alia, that in the pursuit of economic crime, there is a key mutual trust between people in the leading positions of all supervisory institutions. Of course, it is personal, and perhaps all of you agree, but we need to be careful. It is necessary to know that there must be people there who are not set on friendly lines and connections. If this is the way it is done, then Baricevic’s affairs are happening to us, national investigation offices are happening to us, and now the affairs in the government’s cabinet, the already mentioned Talum and so on. In all these cases, the circle is concluded through such or other political friendships. And it is obvious to Pahor's coalition of pertinent comments that we all know each other in Slovenia anyway, but unfortunately in my opinion it is impossible to hold back. There is no problem that we all know each other in Slovenia. It's really small, but it can quickly be a circle. The problem is that through the function of power and friendship, it is possible for individuals to become rich at the expense of the state and thus to play law. That's the problem. It's not a problem if we know each other. The problem is that we let someone else do this because we're in a position to know each other. The problem is also that we are obviously being pursued by more serious thefts, and real economic crime is still going on somehow smoothly. According to the results, so far the judiciary has not had or dealt with a specific case in the field of economic crime and has not stepped on it. However, if it is feared, even in recent times, that journalists are writing about the controversial affairs of the political elite and their people, and then nothing happens to anyone, then I am not surprised that we are practically not getting to the bottom of this area of economic crime. More. As I think it is possible for us to meet with the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr Zoran Jankovic, who is suspected of various crimes, in a banana republic. This is a very interesting and really question why this is happening. However, this is also not unusual and strange in this country, as even the Minister herself is also in the investigation process, but is still in her position. Also, in the opinion of Mr Klemenčič, who is now the leader of the anti-corruption commission, we do not need major legislative changes, but we need someone in this area who can take responsibility for the situation. And at this point, you know who's the highest in the executive branch of power. Above all, what is very important is, in my opinion, that people should start to trust politics and the country again, which unfortunately is not. But of course, this is not even so strange, given that people can find out daily through affairs and events that some are obviously allowed completely everything, even past the laws, but nothing happens to them. Others, on the other hand, are significantly less or more like in some democratic society, where there are rules and where there is legislation to respect it. Dr Matjaž Jager, director of the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, found that we do have less classical wealth crime than in other countries of the European Union, but said that corruption is quite widespread. It is very interesting, because in an interview for the Croatian weekly, Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic presented the opposite position. In his opinion, there is no corruption in Slovenia at all. That's an interesting observation, Mr. Mayor! But it's usually the way that someone who yells receives a thief, usually a thief — at least that's what they say. Therefore, Mr Jankovic obviously does not notice the clientistically controversial way in which the call was made to exactly one tenderer, for example, Golobič's Ultra was chosen to do the Urban Card in the Municipality of Ljubljana. Since there is no corruption by Jankovic in Slovenia, of course it cannot know how it is possible that the land of Electa has suddenly become wally and thus, of course, has greatly increased its price on the market. I also very deeply agree with Mr Klemenčič, President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, who stressed in the evening interview that so-called donations to the investor have crossed every reasonable limit. And it is clear from this context that the conduct of Mayor Jankovic is certainly also meant under this type of corruption. These are all facts that indicate that Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, in her introduction to this report that we now have before us, raised the question very well: Are we in fact still a rule of law? And: Are we in fact still a social state, according to everything written down? But that's not all. The director of the criminal police, Mr Aleksander Jevšek, also said at this same round table that the police are also having major problems with political interference, and I quote what he said, "As much as the involvement of politics in the work of the criminal police in the last three years, I do not remember." This was said by the Director of the Criminal Police, Mr Aleksander Jevšek, and it was also pointed out at the outset that the problem of economic crime is also that politics interferes in such or other ways. The above expert advice, which I have now analysed a little more precisely, is very clear to all of us who are sitting here today in the hall, and also to others, especially politicians, of course, the mirror and shows us where Slovenia came from on its 20th anniversary. These are certainly questions worthy of professional and political discourse in this Chamber as well, says Parliament. I therefore appeal to all the competent supervisory institutions and law enforcement authorities to initiate, on an official basis, all necessary procedures regarding economic crime offences. Of course, I also call for a policy that is in power to enable them to work smoothly with their clear political will. If ever, then surely today is the time to face some reality that has led us to do so, I will also say, perhaps putting our heads in the sand, unfortunately also at the request of the former Prime Minister of the Government, I think it was Anton Rop, when the President of the then anti-corruption commission told Mr Penk not to take too much part in his work. We could hear this on the recent edition of the Views of Slovenia. It is also interesting that if we look, say, only at the neighbouring country of Croatia, at our closest neighbours, with whom both the President of the State and the Government have quite interesting relations. In this area of economic crime, persecution has already overtaken us and taken matters into their own hands. As read in the newspapers, the Croatian opposition demanded a vote on the non-trust of the Prime Minister because it did not want to be responsible for the poor situation in the country. He says that the opposition that the Croatian government has disgraced Croatia and that the country is in economic, political and moral agony. This, of course, is happening in Croatia and not in us; for us, who have been a member of the European Union for six years, we have been acting as if everything is okay, nothing concrete has been done in this case, except in the case of Happy Friend. The Ombudsman said in a report last year that doing an analysis of the human rights situation is a very difficult and responsible task. Of course, we fully agree with this, because this means that the Ombudsman must deal with a particular issue very impartially, must have a strong sense of justice, must also objectively evaluate things, and above all, it is important that the Ombudsman does not adapt his position to any current political situation and also to the problems of individuals or groups who turn to the Ombudsman of Human Rights, cannot and must not be politically defined in any way. Of course, the Ombudsman is the first person in the country to care for respect for human rights to act on the basis of the Constitution, the declaration and so on. I can say that this year's report follows exactly all the intentions that I have just listed. The report also draws the attention of the Ombudsman to the problem of torture and bullying in the workplace. That's actually the problem. We, too, on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, receive several petitions dealing with this problem as well. People call us in the office and tell us what's going on with them. As a result, we had quite a few meetings on the subject of bullying or mobbing. However, I can say that today, after the adoption of the Penal Code in the previous term, when torture or mobileity has become a crime under Article 197 and is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years, I think that today people or employers have a slightly different view of certain matters because they are aware that their arrests can also be criminally sanctioned. We are actually fighting for this, after all, within the National Assembly. Article 6 of the Labour Relations Act also prohibits sexual and other harassment and torture in the workplace. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also specifies that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security, which means that state authorities and all individuals must respect the right to personal dignity and security. It should also be said that the consequences of the mobile, which can also be reflected in health, and in the long term, are well aware of the European Union, which warns that one third of all working days are lost due to the disease and absence caused by the mobile phone. The costs resulting from this shortfall go to thousands of billions of euros. In short, this is a sufficiently eloquent information that indicates that we need to do more in this area and take mobile or bullying as a serious phenomenon within the working environment. The next topic the Ombudsman has been exposing for quite some time is the right to a healthy environment. I have already mentioned this to the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities when we have discussed the report, but I think it is good that I also stress some things here. The Society for Nature and Environment, Eco Circle, has for years in various ways, both state authorities and the public in vain, warned of a violation of the constitutional right to a healthy living environment in Zasavje by the Lafarge Cement cement plant. What's important here is that that society will release as much as 12 kilograms of carcinogen per day into the air. Also this summer, which is not so far back, the Rippers have been targeting extremely high concentrations of particulate matter, but it is interesting that when locals strongly protested this and all the analyses showed this, Arso reported from the state agency that all the data was wrong, that the device had deteriorated. Thus, the device has simply deteriorated and, more interestingly, since then, Arso, the real agency dealing with this is not publishing any more data on pollution with hard particles in the Rippers. But I'm not just gonna stay in the Bellies. There is a similar case in Ljubljana. In Ljubljana, only in the first months of this year, the amount of hazardous particulate matter in the air was 44 times exceeded, the limit allowed is 50 milligrams per cubic metre and last year more than 100 times. So it's all been shown that there's something wrong in the air. According to European legislation, the number of contaminated days is allowed 35. However, the mayor is not in his mandate - we will see, maybe surprise us and he will do so in the new mandate - but he will implement no measures or strategies to reduce emissions of particulate matter in the air. Let me say that this device was standing in the vicinity of the National Assembly, in front of the Figovec inn for a while, but then, just before the elections, when it was found that it showed too much hard particles in the air, they simply shut it down, they removed it, it's not there anymore; you can go see it, it's gone. Otherwise, I will not be criminal, the government prepared a report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 at the end of July, which also envisaged measures to improve air quality. Regrettably, however, she did not write down the time frame within which she intended to do so. Why I devote so much attention to this subject, as well as to the Ombudsman in the previous report, and also when she took up her mandate, she said that she would devote a lot of time to a healthy living environment, and, of course, we must also be aware of this, if not for us, but at least for our craftsmen. What's interesting? For example, in London, there were 36 times the limit value of these hard particles in the air in some area. Interestingly, when civil initiatives took place there, they took a strong stand against local authorities, but they responded quickly. So they didn't move that meter anywhere else, but they responded. They're not under the carpet sweep of this fact, but they've faced the problem and they've reacted. It is probably important to note here that the European Commission has also brought an action against Slovenia on account of the inaction of the Slovenian authorities. We'll see what the result is. It is said that a capital punishment is foreseen for such ignorance to the health of the people, which will ultimately be paid by citizens and taxpayers. In short, I think it would be good to do more in this area. We must all face this environmental problem. Finally, the right to a healthy living environment is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 72, which is why there is still a need to follow. In her report, the Ombudsman also deals with negative environmental impacts on noise and smell and related control and monitoring issues, thus identifying environmental damage. I myself, as President of the Commission, have met several times in the field with representatives of people who have major problems in this area, especially with regard to the smell, especially where it comes from the smell of turkey farms. It's such a serious problem because they make normal life impossible for people. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the problem of sensational media reporting within the report. She had also warned about this a year earlier, but apparently nothing had changed. It is unacceptable that the identity of children is revealed in the media. Of course, it is the most alarming information, which is rewritten in this year's report, that such violations continue to occur and even take place in spite of warnings. We all know that children, people with disabilities, and so on are one of the most vulnerable social groups, and we need to take special care of them, protect them. It is, of course, commendable that a law on the prevention of domestic violence has already been passed in the previous term, but more needs to be done in this area. The Ombudsman is also very well aware of the need to achieve zero tolerance for domestic violence, but this means that we must not close our eyes to violence in any form. Even when it comes to cases of violence, he's been hoping for journalists we've been witnessing to lately. Already in my statement to the public at the time, as President of the Commission, I drew attention to unacceptable events in connection with threats, the death of a journalist from Finance Officer. In the past, there have also been quite a number of resounding cases of concrete acts of verbal and physical violence, to which the highest authorities have also publicly identified themselves, different petitions have been signed, which have stood in line with the fact that they have been able to sign and condemn the brutal attacks, which is, of course, correct and absolutely necessary to do so, but in this case, because of the political-capital interests and the links to the involved, more difficulties when it is necessary to condemn such an act. At that time, I also pointed out that more and more such expressions of violence point to a particular situation in Slovenian society, when individuals may indirectly or directly abuse their political power for petty acts, for intimidation, for pressures on weaker and otherwise thinking and even those who report and investigate certain controversial transactions, whose specificity is that they are linked to the great financial exploitation of individuals. I know that my colleagues will say more further in the debate itself, and I will probably add something more from the bench myself. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Ombudsman's report for 2009. We will also support the recommendations made by the Ombudsman at the end of her report, as well as all the additional recommendations discussed by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me, in contrast to the predecessor, on behalf of my Group of Members, to make my statement on the 2009 report of the Ombudsman, which is the subject of the agenda. I promise not to use the hate speech as we could have heard it just before about the same-sex and deleted. However, I can see in this that the hate speech is a constant of the Ombudsman's reports and, in view of the experience we have had before, unfortunately this will also remain in the report for the following year. What we agree with the predecessor is that today we are discussing the 15th regular report of the Ombudsman for 2009 and that the Ombudsman is focusing on the issue of whether Slovenia is still a social and legal state. This emphasis on whether it is a social state is logical during the period of economic crisis. The problems in this area are exacerbated: there are many problems in the area of social protection, insufficient care for the disabled, inadequate housing policy of the country, social distress of young families, low-income people, violations of labour law for domestic and foreign workers, which the Ombudsman has been alerting for many years, of course, regarding non-payments. In the Zares Group – a new policy, we note that in recent years the competent Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has put in place a number of measures, such as the full-time subsidy law, the partial compensation for working time, the labour market regulation law, the special allowance for socially disadvantaged persons, and the social security benefits. In the procedure we have the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Family Code, this week we have considered, say, the Law on Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities. It is time, of course, to take this area, the areas of disabled persons, at different points of origin, on the assumption of the unadaptability and inaccessibility of the environment, which is the reason for placing disabled persons in an unequal position rather than the unadaptability of the disabled to the environment, which will require the adoption of a law on personal assistance, which I hope will soon be in the process. The legal solutions envisaged by the pension reform or the new law on pension and disability insurance also address the issue of non-payment of social contributions by the employer, so it is clear that payments are part of the employee's salary, which is inseparable and is the non-payment of the country's contributions. These acts of regulation by certain employers are, of course, shameful and call for swift and appropriate responses. At least after the Ministry of Justice has interpreted it, the prosecution could have acted more decisively here by now, and unfortunately it has not. I'm sure the Attorney General knows why. Finally, at this meeting of the National Assembly, at the initiative of our parliamentary group, we have regulated and improved the status of family assistants. So that some of the things that we can do as a legislative branch of government have been done, we have done in this area of social security. Whether implementation is always true is not just a matter for us who co-create laws. The special area I would like to highlight in the area of social policy is the housing situation. The Ombudsman points out that complex changes are needed in this area. The engagement of the State has so far been minimal both in terms of social objectives and in terms of addressing market disturbances and optimal functioning of the housing market. With measures in the residential area, we need to make it easier for all, especially young people, to enter a housing market where there are not enough different types of housing providers. This is shown mainly in the absence of renting apartments. Experts estimate that our country needs at least 30% of the rental apartments to allow young people to enter the housing market without distraction and, as a result, arrange their own lives. There are also several offers of specific organisational forms of housing services such as cooperatives, non-profit private landlords and the like. It should therefore not surprise us that Slovenia is one of the three European countries with the highest percentage of young people living with parents. The higher percentages are only in Malta and Italy. Young Slovenians stay at home with their parents by the age of 35, which is 10% in Sweden. One of the important factors affecting this is certainly the size of the rental housing fund. On the other hand, young people are also hampered by access to credit for entering the housing market. Credit is often a dream because there is no means of own participation and there is no guarantee of permanent employment. Of course, there may be later more acute cases, which the Office of the Ombudsman also deals with in the final stage. We therefore welcome the Ombudsman's warnings in this area and call on the competent ministry to take these issues extremely seriously in the new housing policy programme. The competent ministry, i.e. the environment, is also the one on which more complaints will fly and more complaints will fly quickly over the years, comments will be made and more recommendations will be made by the Ombudsman, as awareness of the right to a healthy environment is increasingly present, and unfortunately this awareness is not yet followed. The next question the Ombudsman raised is, Is Slovenia still a state of law? The stations are recommendations concerning the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and also the public administration, and the government's response report gives us some hope that things are changing in this area. Of course, a large part of both the responsibilities and the responsibilities of the judiciary in this regard are also borne by the judicial branch of power, so it is not our legislative branch, so it would probably be difficult to assess and answer for irregularities in this area only from our point of view. The fact is, things change faster in theory than they do in practice, but I believe things change. Certain confidence in the Slovenian legal system also offers recent facts that before the law we are all the same, as the case of our fellow Member, who has been convicted by law, one other fellow Member is awaiting an indictment, the immunity of his colleagues for the things they have committed or allegedly committed, we do not grant, and the matter of the judicial system is that these things are being processed. What's interesting about all this is that both the one who was convicted and the one who's facing the prosecution's proposal are colleagues who are the first to be among those who say, "Get the thief!" I would also like to touch on the areas already mentioned by the speakers concerning children's rights, and the Ombudsman reiterates the media exposure and sensational reporting of family tragedies affecting children in particular. In one of its recommendations, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth proposed to the Ministry of Culture to ensure greater protection of the child in the media law against the dissemination of content that would harm their physical, mental and moral development. The draft media law, which was under public scrutiny, adequately addresses this issue. Of course, it is also necessary to appeal to professionalism and the ethical code of journalists, which should be respected, but unfortunately not in practice; and if you want, this is again a new, so-called fourth branch of government. The area of children's rights is also painfully highlighted in this year's health report in a few cases. We have cases of mothers with children, nursing mothers who have contact with a child who, in his early youth, is already in medical care, is limiting, making it difficult, and it must be acknowledged that our new pediatric clinic, as much as we are all happy to have it, is not regulated in all areas as it could be. All I know is that in the neonatal surgery department, where mothers who were born with a C-section come in with newborn babies, or an old week, or ten days, so that they don't have to worry about their accommodation there as though it was a reconvale, it's a moral. It is not a case that psychologists claim that children do not perceive as others for up to six months, but as part of themselves, and I think that should be taken into account in all of the treatments of such young children in the healthcare system, and I think that we also had one case in the justice system when breast-feeding a mother who had to go to prison did not allow contact with a child. I think it's unacceptable, regardless of the fact that it's a convict. At this point, I would like to conclude that I will also leave some time for my colleagues. I would say that in the Group of Representatives, we would like to express our thanks and appreciation to the Ombudsman for this transparent and consistent report, and we will do our best to make as many recommendations as possible from this report as we can, which we will confirm, in practice, apply ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I'll allow myself to be rectified so there won't be any misunderstandings later. The colleague you spoke of, Mr Rozjej, has not yet been legally convicted. That's it. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected guardian with coworkers, a respected colleague, a respected colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are very concerned about the conclusion of the Ombudsman, as we have already said in our request that the report be considered at the October meeting of the National Assembly. The Ombudsman's report in the Slovenian People's Party is assessed as a reflection of the actual situation in society. More than just the report is a worrying response to current policies in many areas. It is most worrying that the report contains many concrete warnings and proposals to improve the situation that no one is dealing with. Therefore, let me say that we are pleased in the Slovenian People's Party that the President of the National Assembly has listened to our initiative and has placed the report in the October session despite the large number of those awaiting consideration. We are asked about the review of the report whether Slovenia is a social state. The report shows that it is not, as it is becoming more and more up - to - date, that the amount of material resources in the family affects where children will be educated. In the field of health, the picture is similar, as quality health services are available only to the rich. For example, socially weaker dental services are actually unattainable. Similar findings can be drawn if we ask whether Slovenia is a state of law. Once again, it is not, since the rule of law is more favourable to citizens with money that can afford too expensive lawyers; that we are not talking about legal failures at all; and that some legislation is written on the skin of individuals. Employers are increasingly aware of this as existing legislation does not provide effective protection for employees, and on this basis employers are applying different pressures to employees without more sanctions. And that's not true for everyone. There are also bright exceptions. This problem could also be solved by more flexible legislation and the country should become a partner, not otherwise. Poverty and social distress are also on the rise as a result of the extremely poor economic situation. As a result, domestic violence is increasing. In the protection of children's rights, the number of initiatives related to domestic violence has increased significantly. In modern Slovenian globalisation society there is a visible crisis of values; fraud and lies, both personal and business, have become universally acceptable and this is bad for our country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party we fear that greed for money will undermine all values. We therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take the report very seriously and to act very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report and the draft report. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I don't have much time. I'll be brief. I think it is very important to stress the importance of the social state and also the question of whether we still have a social state, with all that is happening, surrounds us and what we can witness today. The rights of workers who have been systematically violated, not only in this mandate, in previous mandates, but now they are becoming dramatic when we look at what is happening in Vegrad, what is happening in Nova glass. As of today, the news is that the administrative court has pleased those who do not pay contributions who do not want to pay contributions. So the rule of law is also essentially defined by essentially legitimising new and new forms of rebellion, protest. In two weeks' time, we will receive in the National Assembly a delegation of workers from Cazin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, those workers who had to come from Slovenia, without finally getting rid of all that this country should be able to do. In short, at a time when we are all in the worst economic crisis of the last decades, we must not forget that the Government is responsible and that the country is the only one responsible for finally respecting and respecting these human rights, which have been systematically violated. With new legislation, with intervention legislation. This needs to be resolved immediately. People are there, they are waiting and they are poor, they are not receiving contributions, and these are actually serious questions for the Ombudsman and the whole society. We expect, of course, that this report will be an additional incentive for the competent ministries to regulate this at legislative level. I believe it is already too late for us to offer clear answers to all these workers, especially those who have been cheated in a legal way. And that's what's most surprising, is that we can legally cheat workers today. We will therefore also launch some initiatives. As far as we are concerned, we know that sometimes with the right interpretation of the law there is a need to challenge certain decisions that today give precisely to those who cheat. I wouldn't add anything else to what my fellow Rogers said. These are the most pressing issues at this time, and I hope that the Government will follow the clues that come from this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u26	Your Honor! The year obviously turns quickly and given that the 2008 report has been dealt with relatively late in relation to the long procedure, however, it can be found mainly in the response of the Government or in the information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly, that in a wide range of areas things are improving, some are being resolved. And I am pleased that what has been seen today is that this government and this Parliament should be dealing mainly with some groups of people who are privileged not to deal with others. It is my pleasure that after 20 years we can say that we have managed to resolve the issue of the deleted, and I am not afraid of further threats after any compensation or anything else, because, as I know, this will not be the case. But this has been repeated, repeated, and this has been discussed today at the time of this report’s consideration. Not to mention the issue of the rights of same-sex, Roma and similar. So what does this subterfuge mean if you say that the government, this country, cares too much for some groups, too little for others? I firmly believe that the country must deal with matters equally within the framework of the rights and duties it has. In order for some marginalised groups to earn even more support, even more of the things that the state would consider more delicately is better and right, in my firm belief, because these are groups that are lagging behind some things that others can do more easily. Given that time is limited and that I agree with both the recommendations and the Government's information regarding the implementation of some of the recommendations, I would focus on only one segment which, in my opinion, is not sufficiently or inadequately addressed in this report, and thus from the findings and also from the recommendations, cannot understand what the state is supposed to do here, what the other should do, and this is a question of children in sport. I believe that it is a matter of some things, as it says here, that the situation is mainly in sports societies where parents bring children and want them to make stars, world champions and the like, in their image or in their expectations in sports society. I'm not sure here that the state and the state can interfere with autonomy. You're saying there's too much autonomy within society. I'm not sure. For also societies must work according to the law, and according to the regulations, which are few. Some even admit that no country has the sport law that we have, and there are other things that prescribe certain things. On the other hand, they also control the implementation of this. I would simply believe here that some debate will be necessary, and I believe that we will get it as soon as possible to separate what is at school. I am concerned if the real information is that an extremely large number of children are, in fact, justified by physical education for a variety of reasons. On the other hand, we find that there is too much obesity, and I do not know what else is going on in children, and that we should do a lot more. What the school could do, I believe it does, by the rules it has, to make it easy at school to suffer, to force it to overtrain and so on it cannot come and that it rarely comes. And the second is, in the part where we talk, and here in the same line, we write both schools and sports societies. There's a big difference here. I am firmly convinced of this, because entering a sports society is only desirable, on recommendation, completely autonomous, and many times parents bring it there. I don't want to be a witness to different debates, there are many cases, because I'm monitoring this area when parents force children to do so, but children disagree with everything, and then they come in two days with a lawyer and try to arrange it with a lawyer, why his child doesn't feel well there and so on. It's also with damages. I believe that if you go strictly to no one will be obliged to pay anything, if five, ten years in a club will work, they will train a professional athlete, they will go to another club, and whoever raised him will have nothing of it, but they will serve on the market and so on. It's a broad topic, you need to talk about it. I believe that there are problems and that is why some of the announcements around the amended legislation in this area will probably give us a chance to talk about this further.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! The consideration of the annual report of the Ombudsman is also an opportunity to restore the findings already made or written on the state of human rights in our country. We often forget that the right to a healthy environment is also one of human rights. It is enshrined in Article 72 of our Constitution. However, it is good to repeat that in Slovenia we have adopted a law long ago that requires an environmental impact assessment for increasing motorway and airport projects and public consultation. In 1990, we adopted rules on the accessibility of public information to the general public, in 2001 the rules on the assessment and public consultation of plans and programmes and in 2003 the rules on public participation in environmental matters and interference with legal tools in the case of industrial permits and project evaluation. In 2005, the European Union acceded to the Aarhus Convention, which supports and promotes all environmental rights, in particular the rights to the public. So we have everything. Regrettably, there are injustices and inequalities in the handling of delays, as well as violations of legal provisions, despite such well-prepared laws and legal proposals. The Ombudsman’s 2009 reports in Chapters 64 to 77 point in particular to those matters which have a beard and tail in the field of the environment. These are long-term procedures at the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, delays in the work of the construction inspectorate, notes in particular the inadmissible long-term apology of the time of the Environment Inspectorate and the space for reporting unauthorised interference to the premises and in other cases. The issue of the Water Fund or the unclear competences between the Environment and Space Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Environment and Space, the example of Caution and others are only illustrations of insufficiently defined powers. The rehabilitation of the pollution of the water protection zone and the control in the area of the construction site in Dravska Field in the Municipality of Kidričvo is also identified as the transfer and translation of competence and not least responsibility. There remains an eternal dilemma and ambiguity as to who is actually following the remedial measures implemented and in what way. The Ombudsman showed a great deal of awareness when he approached the problem of pollution in the Mishik Valley without being reported. In any event, the Civil Initiative for the Protection of the Environment of the Mountain Village, which wanted to achieve a halt to the operation of the asphalt base without a building permit, showed how difficult, complex and long-lasting the environmental field is, because of the involvement of the various authorities, the matter is long-term, complex and problematic. I must certainly say that public participation in environmental issues is crucial, as only timely information on the environment and environmental procedures prevents wrong moves and possible infringements. Why? Since clearly established rules and procedures are transparently laid down, all stakeholders requiring a high level of responsibility are defined. The guardian or guardian notes how difficult it is for a young man to break through a maze of difficult administrative procedures or windows and offices. I will not list all the areas and items, but the short estimate is that there is no ministry and not a minister in which there is no confusion. I will not list all of them, but the tendering conditions and the breaking through the documentation of the various calls, not least the decisions for the different calls, but not to mention and specifically not to mention which ministries, however, are problematic. The Ministry of Culture is closest to me, but it's not at the top, but there are others. Eliminating administrative barriers. The Ministry of Public Administration has written a lot and has done a lot in this area, but it is quite enough to do, because a small man is hard to get through computer mazes and other mazes of space, etc. In particular, I would like to commend the full team of the Ombudsman and the second conference on the environment and human rights, entitled Public Participation in Environmental Matters. This conference was an international conference and stakeholders from Slovenia participated. In particular, I recommend to all those, especially with the Ministry of Environment and Space, to read the conclusions, because they are such that if it were not for Friday, I would read them to everyone, just because I think we could learn a lot. I don't know who listed everything here about the flood of various regional guardians and the fact that the 15-year debate on the Ombudsman's report usually also leads us to have a lot of initiatives for different regional guardians. In any case, the team around the guardian in question is very complete and quite competent, but neither the water nor the trees can cry, only those who have been affected by certain procedures. Once again, thank the complete team for such a quality and quality report. However, it would certainly be worth considering which topic you will give to the next conference, whether this is also a protection of privacy, perhaps the entry of the media into privacy or anything else on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Soul Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear guardian with co-workers, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! As society grows older, the pressures and problems of the older generation, or older population, are increasingly at the forefront, and one of these problems is violence against older people, which is probably one of the most controversial issues when we talk about domestic violence. For many people do not want to hear about this violence, even its existence is denied, and especially the vast majority do not know how to act, how to deal with violence itself. The laws and dynamics of violence against the elderly are similar to those with which we also define violence against women and violence against children. The greatest violence against the elderly occurs at home, behind four walls, in related relationships, and where older ones depend on caregivers, caregivers, caregivers, and the like. That is why most conflicts, violence, tensions, bad relations and the absence of communication are also found where we would expect care, care, understanding, patience and assistance to the elderly. And worst of all, the very dynamics of violence in time lead to normalization of violence in the very relationship. The victim himself begins to use a survival strategy, all in the hope of avoiding ever-increasing forms of violence. But those who cause violence use the strategy sometimes of total control, their power and so on. In short, older people face many pressures, including violence against them, which often remains, as I said, hidden behind four walls. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s report on this type of violence is not extensive if you read on pages 246 of this fat book. In the economic crisis, such as the current one, new forms of violence against the elderly have also begun to emerge. Children simply come to a home where they have survived their youth and collect from food, to pensions, or funds that the elderly have for their survival. And more. Not to mention the recent violence that has resulted from the material goods that the elderly have created during their active years and are now the subject of blackmail, the violence of children against the elderly. More. Instead of enforcing — and of course some kind of criticism or a reminder of the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of power — instead of enforcing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which stipulates that full - time children are obliged to care for and support their parents if they do not have enough resources to live, the picture is often reversed today. The elderly, with modest incomes, pensions — we talked about this in the preceding days when we discussed pensions — are still surviving their children and, last but not least, grandchildren. The elderly are not prepared to talk about these problems and such violence. The reason is simple. It's a picture of some idyllic family, even the imaginary and the playful, because family is a sacred thing. And that, of course, is the force of force wrong. Thus, the uncertain social situation, unemployment, poverty, are often the cause of many negative phenomena in society. And one of these is violence, which is particularly evident in the family, which is violence against the elderly. The Ombudsman has addressed some initiatives that show that children oppose the admission of parents to institutional protection, because this means payment, material costs, and initiatives that show that children even oppose the return of parents from institutions to the domestic environment, because they are once again a material burden. In both cases, it's a kind of violence against parents. It is therefore necessary to attach, and repeatedly to, the Ombudsman's findings and assessments that, from experience at work, exclusion from social events is one of the worst forms of violence and discrimination that often affects the older population. In today's information society of rapid change, when there is no certainty anymore when each individual is responsible for himself, we need to do more for those older people who may be sick, neglected, excluded from society, poor and therefore need more assistance and measures to protect their rights. And here the Ombudsman reiterates, and I think that we must join in this in the National Assembly to introduce the advocacy of the elderly, as is the case with the children. Elders also need a confidant to whom they can turn in distress or doubt. As a result of the population’s ageing, the need for confidential people to lean on their parents is growing. Therefore, on this occasion, we, too, in the National Assembly and the Government, should be reminded of the commitment and the promise that an office for the elderly will be established in the near future, regardless of the costs involved. Finally, in view of today's debate, more than three hours, I must stress one more thing. It can happen that next year, in the Ombudsman's report, we will read about another type of violence that we are producing ourselves in the National Assembly when we are discussing various things that are the result of undemocratic and uncultural dialogue between ourselves. It is what I call political rhetorical violence when Members and Members of Parliament are shot at from the meeting to the meeting, from the point of point to point of the agenda, with half-truths, lies, conspiracy stories, accusations without facts and so on. It's also some kind of violence that makes us tired and makes us older than we already look.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In my presentation of my position, I spoke about the problem of the non-payment of workers. We must also take into account that the matter that has been happening with workers who have mostly worked in construction companies has had a very bad impact on the reputation of our country. This way we don't make friends or make partners, but where you'll find a partner the fastest if not in the neighborhood. And I am sure that this has caused us very much economic and political damage. We are primarily talking about workers' rights. I don't know, I don't think it makes sense for a worker who doesn't get paid to leave his job. I think we could have a marriage where a worker leaves his job. Or that they had no information about it, these people, that they could leave the job, and that they would therefore not be subject to any sanctions and would not lose their job. For example, we can say that if there's got to be money on the account 15 months ago, and if there's no money, I can quit my job and wait to get paid, and then I go back to work without being exposed to any threat of losing my job. Because this has been happening all this time, and that's why these people have suffered so much in these positions, and then, clearly, they've lost everything. You know, but not all employers are that kind of fun and black employers. It is important to know that there are, for the most part, employers, especially those who are small employers, honorable employers who have paid their obligations and who have no face to play with people in this way. And I think in our country we could introduce this blacklist of employers. These positives may even be rewarded in some way, stimulated by either tax or whatever, something could be found for these employers who claim to be in the majority. I say that flexible labour legislation would also take a step closer to the employer. For these pressures, this labour legislation, therefore, tax legislation are certainly creative killers. If we had certain relationships, certain paths, when the employer comes into a crisis, there is no work, and at the time struggles with how to save the company, save employment – and thus exhaust yourself, you simply lose your strength – if, at the moment when the employer comes into difficulty, when it has to simply lower costs, when it has to lower costs, even by forgiving, the matter is substantially more flexible, the worker ends his way in the employment establishment, without any major obstacles, and the country enters as a partner, you will certainly remain, the employer, the power and the finances to seek a new path. A new way to get him back on the job and when these things can be resolved, not to sink, one thing and the other. Let me say one more thing for these workers who have lost their personal income. We must be aware that without these workers, Slovenia would not be as successful as it has been in the past. We have to admit that the economy would be burned down because we were already there anyway. And if you don't have resources, like workers, you can't do that either. And this must be taken into account, both by the state and by each individual. Above all, I would say that the world is changing small people, not those at the top. Let's hear the report! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The Ombudsman's Institute sets up a mirror for us every year to see how much progress we have made in society, where the problems we are facing are and what it would be useful to do to reduce these problems. I am pleased that in recent years, as I have said now, we are increasingly ready to accept this report and that, since the first years of rejecting this report and the excuses that this is not really our concern, we have now become more attentive to the content and with the report as a rule, with the exception of rare exceptions, we do not negate it, but we are trying to form a position to make it happen or at least in some way justify our conduct with objective circumstances. This is good, and in this direction it would suggest that we work even more to the extent possible. I am not going to talk about certainly the biggest problem because they are already and will be spoken of by others, this is the situation of those who have difficulty finding a job, this is the situation of those who have different ways of having problems in employment through bullying or other forms, and those who face problems of their existence. However we look and feel that we have done a lot in this area, probably for those, but these are not so few below the threshold of poverty, and for those who seek or do not have a job, simply our general conclusion, although it is true, does not help much because those concrete problems are the biggest for them. But let us work together to save him, not only through legislation, but also through a more successful solution to the economic crisis. Finally, let us also solve it in a way that eliminates what is most often the most painful, that is the fact that problems are being solved too slowly or that we are willing to accept disproportionately large differences, allowing these differences to increase, allowing problems to arise again and again in the behaviour of specific people without being sanctioned. But so many introductory remarks, and now only two specific questions and support for the views of the Ombudsman and his office, and at the same time point out in agreement with the Ombudsman's conclusions that we are resolving the proposal. But there are questions that I have been asking for years and years, and I am sorry to have to do it, but I am among the few that I do it, so I will repeat them this time. One issue is the rights of former housing rights holders in denationalised apartments. Secondly, it is a matter of the situation of the housewives, former or present. For both of us, I'm glad the nanny's warning me about the problem. As for both of you, if you've been monitoring anything, I've also been trying to update things recently on the government's visa or the competent ministry. With regard to both, I can find that there is relatively little willingness to solve and that there is still more to what I have mentioned in the opening, that is an excuse why certain problems cannot be solved. I hope that the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has explicitly warned us about illegal conduct – and I will not say that I am happy – only confirms the claims that I have been making for 10 years and more, that there are no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And as for the janitors, I would like to draw the attention of the Guardian's Office to perhaps my superficial reading, or perhaps even a different position. I strongly support the proposal for a decision, which says, "The Ombudsman recommends a systematic and uniform solution to the issue of housing." If I understand this correctly, then I understand: uniformly, in a way that the solution should apply to everyone who is still one way or another in a former or current household apartment. However, I would like to point out this because, in your observations before this point in point 294, you point out that legislation governs housing in different ways, once for a shorter period through the right to be a holder of housing rights, and in another way, as if it were only a work apartment. If this dilemma still exists with the Ombudsman, I will not say that it is not, I know that it exists with the Ministry, and that, through this dilemma, the failure to resolve this issue is justified, then I recommend a careful review of the special study that was made a few years ago by the Institute of Law at the Faculty of Law in Maribor, and analysed the justification or unjustification of such a distinction. If this study is not available, I believe that the Society or the Association of Housewives will be happy to provide it. Secondly, shorter than the first one, I am very pleased that the Commission on Human Rights has decided, in addition to the recommendations made by the Ombudsman, to address the issue, to adopt a special recommendation that the National Assembly of the Ministry of Culture propose to adopt legal solutions which, in accordance with the recommendations of the international institutions, will enable members of the former Yugoslavia to promote, develop and maintain their identity and to strengthen their awareness of their equal integration into Slovenian society. Regardless of whether the formulation is very pure, beautiful, too narrow, too broad, I am simply warning that this is one of the issues that we will have to address, even because we are being warned about by international institutions, and that this narrowness, which speaks about Balkanism, about returning to Yugoslavia, does not benefit citizens and not immigrants because it has nothing to do with it, because it is our citizens who live here, usually for decades, but certainly they have acquired citizenship and it is for the citizens and not for some immigrants because of working needs and we must ensure them adequate rights. I think it would be right to think another step forward because some step further requires international institutions, as well as the expectations of these societies, to institutionalise the form of cooperation between these societies and the country in an appropriate way. We believe that some form of the world, conscience, and so forth would be appropriate to settle these issues. However, we agree with the Ombudsman and also agree with the warnings of colleagues and colleagues that it is not possible to think at this time that these groups of people should be given the same right as the national minorities of Hungary and the Italians in Slovenia and not the Roma, and that, for one time, none of us in our parliamentary group thinks about changing the constitution or something similar, only in the context of existing solutions can much more be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My word is Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u36	Mr. President-in-Office. Nice greetings to all present! I thank the guardian and the entire team and also congratulate them for an extremely successful and quality report. This report spares no segment of our society, does not avoid difficult matters, which is also commendable. The question is whether we are still a social society or not, but we have decided on this way of life, and I must say, it seems to me that in many of the things described here, the so-called human factor is at fault. This is where my colleague mentioned the relationship between us. I would like to point out yesterday's insult by the Minister of Labour when I also reacted when it comes to primitiveism, which we cannot afford in this environment. And maybe in the future, this team will have to deal with things like this. We can think differently, we have different views, but how we express it, how we present it, depends on man, on his heart culture and many more. I've been given a few visits, I'm talking about a whole team of guardians, at the municipality in Nova Gorica, and I have to say that this has always been well received by my colleagues. We've heard of many problems that we haven't detected, for various reasons, so your work on the ground is very useful, and it solves and unties many of the knots. In this report, I would like to highlight only one small segment. It's always like that, you know, until you're hurt, that's no problem. But when I have this problem myself, it's a big deal. Here I would mention solving or eliminating discrimination based on disability, in particular the problem of deaf students. I hope because it is almost closing in 2010, that these things have only changed since 2009. Behind us is the International Day of the Deaf, an opportunity to review what society has done for those who need help in this area. In this report, I find that deaf students are still not allowed to monitor lectures in Slovenian Sign Language, that they have problems in education and obtaining jobs here at home, especially in the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, that students are not paid for interpretation in sign language and still. It is also clear from the team's proposal that there should be an equal opportunity for education, that the amendment of the Higher Education Act should be adapted to these requirements, that any statutes at universities should also be updated. This is nothing that could not be done for the benefit of all who want to study. Of course, it is also necessary to adapt the processes to students with special needs. In some areas, we have taken great steps forward. I'll only mention the disabled. Everywhere we meet running stairs or elevators and so on, it looks like out there, but what is more is obviously impossible to do here. I would mention another very big problem in Goriška or in Nova Gorica. It's about catastrophic conditions in our prisons. The Ministry of Justice has already had funds reserved for a new construction and the like for the execution of the penalty. There are inhuman living conditions and we'll all have to do something to change that. The local community is also ready to help solve this problem. I think we need to do something to make it better. I only hope that the report, this book for 2010, will be a little cheaper. It will probably never be very thin, but if at least there is a problem that we will be able to solve these problems in a relationship, because once again I stress, it is not the system's fault, and many times the legislation is not guilty, but it is man's fault. And this must be where the culture of the heart is present. Thank you again very much for this excellent report. It's a real textbook for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! Indeed, this annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 is a formal, technical, visual and very good work. I think, as always, it's very extensive. Of course, the issue is content, and we need to talk about the content here. The report should cover all developments that took place in 2009 in the field of human rights protection or human rights violations. Of course, it's not objectively possible. The report can't cover all the cases. I understand that. But the problem is when the selection takes place. And to my mind, I believe that my conduct and reading of this report have involved a number of selections, and human rights are universal, as are human rights violations universal. It seems to me that this selection sometimes takes place too much on this route, that if rights violations are within our political mile, they are not worth a conviction, but if they are within your political mile, that is of course a major problem. Political accountability in the field of human rights leads us to destruction, colleagues and colleagues. In my report and in general with the Ombudsman, I miss more media work. The media are an important social subsystem and we must not ignore it. However, I must say that it was a very good response from the guardian when it came to media interventions on children's rights when it came to child abuse to raise viewership, to raise the burden. And that's what the Ombudsman reacted very well to, and in some ways stopped it. Sadly, however, she also stopped herself more or less. The fact is, not only do the media interfere with human rights, but they also interfere with the media with capital and politics. And information, equal access to the media is also a fundamental human right. In Slovenia we have a defect in this area, a certain deficit. Remember, days ago we were able to read information about the state of press freedom in the Republic of Slovenia compared to the whole world. Slovenia was still in 30th place in 2008. In last year's 37th or 38th place. This year's 46th. In 2008, the government of Janez Janša and the media very much attached the designation "Prince of Darkness" to Janez Janša. It is now two years in the power of Borut Pahor, which some very much call the 'Prince of Light', and we have such a fall in freedom of the media and freedom of the press. During this time, much has happened, since in some way the media liquidation of Borut Mežka, which the Government, of course indirectly via the STA, sent to the road, not to talk about Slak and Travn from Channel A, not to talk about the latest cases of media threats, threats to journalists by some sort of economic-political inviolable elite. Unfortunately, I have not heard any response from the Ombudsman or the Office of the Ombudsman to all these deviant deviations in Slovenian society, in the media landscape. Of course, it is a matter of the individual Ombudsman's action. I must say that I was closer to Mr Hanžk's work, not only because he came to Mežica shortly after attempting to eliminate me, or to assassinate me, three, four months later, and we also talked for two hours about the issue of human rights, the issue of the media landscape. I preferred his way of working, more open, indeed quite unpredictable, sometimes rather unpredictable, but with some broad humanistic charge. I liked this way better than some cold and calculating treatment of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Guardian, thank you very much, because every year you set this mirror of our social reality to Slovenian society, not only on this report, but also on this one. I would like the expression of many problems of human rights violations in our country not only to be on the agenda once a year, but to be able, above all, to sit on the table within the authority and find effective solutions to the problems that you are alerting to in your report. We have very little to do with all the discussion if, in fact, the backdrop of this discussion is not really the will to solve some of the problems in this society. Judging from today's debate and the report, which shows that some of the problems in our society have not moved from a dead point for 20 years, I would say that, in fact, the basic problem is that after this report has been published, when the National Assembly is informed and discussed with it, there is no need for the Government to face the results of this report and organise its work so that we will face its report next year or that there will be room in this report for new problems and new human rights violations. Understand this, government representatives, even as my initiative and guidance for your work. The challenge of human rights is increasingly being addressed in the report from the exercise of civil and political rights in the field of social rights. In this place, let me say that in some document we have adopted in this National Assembly, for example, in the exit strategy, it is in fact an indication of always new laws or amendments and an addition to laws that actually blur the legal order of Slovenia, but do not contribute to the fact that Slovenia's legal order, and thus our desire for simple and clear legislation, comes to the fore. I wonder if anyone in Slovenia today actually has a legal order, including European law, that is reasonable. And the more complex the legislation is, and even though we think that complex legislation is the best way to protect all situations in which violations may occur, I am the opposite. I think that, given clearer and more transparent legislation, simpler legislation, including violations of this legislation and consequently human rights violations, would be significantly more evident. Perhaps, after 20 years of our independence, we should slowly start to think about what legal system we are actually living in, where we have made mistakes with this extreme overriding of the Slovenian legal order, and, in the sense of the anti-biocratic programme, we should start to take some decisive steps. Slovenia stands in the midst of difficult and often painful reforms. Undoubtedly, this time may also be due to our slums, to adopt as many laws as possible and, in fact, to measure the success of our policy by the number of laws as possible, but not by the number of problems solved, which requires us to take a very responsible view of social relations. You know, in many current cases, where at least circumstances that raise suspicion that parts of society are taking advantage of themselves, because of their position or God, do not even give rise to the abuse of the position they hold does not contribute to the creation of an appropriate social climate in which, on the basis of social justice, we can adopt legislation that we adopt on behalf of this justice. The reforms are an outstanding example of this, based on the belief that, due to difficult times, each of us has to give up something, work harder and better to achieve social change, so that we all live better together tomorrow. This assumption is that there must be individuals and individuals among us who abuse their positions for their benefit. I'm not just talking about the political level, I'm talking about other levels. And this sense of social injustice actually takes the breath and courage for necessary social change. This week, the Youth of Slovenia, a young man from New Slovenia, published a press release. I admit that until today, I had completely overlooked it, and apparently the media had overlooked it. And there are some really problematic formulations in this press release. I think it is important, especially when such messages come from part of Slovenian youth, to be properly addressed and properly qualified. The report accompanied the German Youth meeting on the last weekend when German youth were also addressed by Chancellor Angela Merkel. Slovenian rejuvenation of Nova Slovenije writes in this message among other things: "In Slovenia too, we must do real multiculturalism in the form we know today, otherwise Slovenian culture is threatened and national existence is threatened. Foreigners living in Slovenia must adopt and respect Slovenian culture, Slovenian language and Slovenian laws. Slovenia, with the idea of multiculturalism, is unwisely losing its own identity. We expect foreigners to have a respectful attitude towards the Slovenian people, culture, customs and independence of Slovenia." I do not wish to qualify these words too harshly, but I do believe that in these times, which may be similar to many elements in some other times, we must pay particular attention to the treatment of differences in our society and accept it as part of the normality of Slovenian society. Because, respected and respected, Slovenia has no idea about multiculturalism, Slovenia is a multicultural society and a dot. And as such, we must accept it. My identity as a Slovenian, it's best to live in contact with another identity. My identity, if you want to be a Mariborian, is best lived when I'm in Ljubljana. And I think that this makes our identities rich and that this also gives Slovenia some new opportunities. Slovenian identity is not a matter of strangers, it's a matter of us. First of all, when we are concerned about this Slovenian identity, let us ask ourselves what attitude Slovenians have towards this own identity and to our own language and how we can often falsify this identity for various reasons, including the way we live. This is particularly important when we are talking about human rights, because Slovenia is a multicultural society and because human rights are universal in this country too. The functioning of the rule of law is, in fact, an expression of the problem and the problem we are talking about today and a key point in the realization of human rights. We do not have to expect and it would be illusory to expect that human rights violations would not occur. What is crucial is that our justice system is able to deal with these violations, that the violations will be properly prosecuted, judicially qualified and that the perpetrators will also be convicted as soon as possible. The very failure of the rule of law, the lack of functioning of the rule of law is one that shines through the entire report of the Ombudsman, and is one of those areas that we also need to focus more on in the National Assembly. The second aspect is, of course, the functioning of the country itself, and I must say that I often meet, mainly in the official's replies to our parliamentary questions, because I am a realist, and I am aware that the Minister or Minister will more or less sign the answer to a Member's question, but I must say that I am often appalled, in fact, what answers we get from government representatives and officials who prepare these answers. They can often detect extreme incompetence, even more, lack of interest and, as I say, boredom of someone pointing to a social problem. And if it's that small, and if it's a small group of people, it's the official office of this country under the patronage of politics that's here because it's well-paid and has safe jobs to solve these problems. And what is minimal to expect is that these officials will competently analyse the problems that Members are also alerting us to. With this I do not want to do injustice to those in Slovenian officialism who do their job well. There is no positive selection in these circles, and if you want there is no case of any official, this insured bear of Slovenian society, being put on the road. This would greatly contribute to the satisfaction of all, together with the quality of public services and official offices. Let me draw your attention to a few things. He has already pointed out the problem that he has long been dealing with, namely, non-profit housing, residential housing and renters in denationalised apartments. The length of this problem suggests that the country has canceled on these issues, issues that do not concern a large number of people in our community. And it is right that we expect quick and effective solutions here. And if they are not served by the Government, I am the first of those who think that with the right solutions we have to come up with Members and legally settle these issues. My colleague Vito Rožej is already the principle of youth and housing policy. This right is also enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And how have we exercised these rights in Slovenia? The fact that we have a number of apartments that are empty today is a number of young people based on statistical indicators among those who live with their parents for the longest time in the European Union. And this is one of those points on the employment issue that prevents young people from becoming self-sustained and more creative people from returning what they receive from society. Working relationships. The variety of cases which all in turn point to the failure of supervisory institutions. This is particularly problematic in cases where the country is facing the economy with measures to overcome the crisis. The Ombudsman points out some of these cases when we give public funds, but there are individuals in these times who abuse these public funds and do not grant the right to the people who are intended to receive these public funds. This is extremely inappropriate, especially in the times in which we are, but it is always worth any judgment. Deleted companies. In 1999, the State adopted a law, without discussion in the National Assembly, without a vote against it, following a reduced procedure where at least 17 thousand 80 people are in that country, without giving them a single opportunity to object and prove a different factual situation, suppressed on the side of society and in total social impossibility. In spite of the grave interference in this case with the international principles of corporate law and the principle of the separation of company property from the person and property of the shareholders. And this is due to the arbitral, reckless conduct of the legislator, which, when necessary, we must address this issue properly and the injustices that have been caused by the legislator, we must go away and be taught that every legal solution we take in the National Assembly must be carefully considered. Respected and respected, especially the respectable Lady Guardian! I know that this debate does not contribute to better protection of human rights in Slovenia. However, it is trying to contribute to the country's behaviour in order not to create new injustices, new infringements and to better equip itself in this society to resolve existing violations as soon as possible, and that Slovenia, as in our dreams 20 years ago, will be an example of the realization of human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I took the two packages into my hands with interest, both the report and the government's response to this report, and I tried to find out what the important differences remained. Especially because — today this has been said several times — it has raised the fundamental question of whether we are still a social state. And this is not only a matter for the Ombudsman, but we have been able to read it within the framework of the Council of State, where this issue has been raised. The answers, at least some ministries, not all of them, are quite arrogant in my judgment. We are certainly, we can say, a social state, as far as we are concerned to raise minimum wages, and as far as we have in mind the large funds we have earmarked to maintain jobs, we could, of course, list something else. However, this social network, which is called a social state, in some areas, is cefsure and I fear that these trends, at least for a while, are still unstoppable. The government's response to these questions, to some criticisms, is such that at least I cannot accept it, and I agree with those who feel or even the Ombudsman has written that the response of our ministries, the various authorities, is too modest. And what's worse is that in many areas we're not very creative, so that we don't create new better situations and simply give in to what we have now, we're referring to the crisis, if we don't, it's no better, and it's a dot. That's the way I just disagree. I will illustrate the case, the housing area has already been mentioned several times, in the case of a report that has only recently been dealt with in the framework of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. The findings are severe. The national housing programme has only been implemented in one third of the years considered by 2007 as regards the requirements for the construction of non-profit dwellings. The country had such an attitude towards this area that it had provided only 17% of the planned funds. This is also problematic when it is found that this area is not better regulated, usually criticism is addressed to municipalities, local communities, and that in this report in the area of housing, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is not mentioned once, but is the fundamental institution that should guarantee that constitutional right so that all people can have adequate access to suitable housing. Let me say that otherwise the Housing Fund builds apartments, in my judgment excessively, for market sales, for the market and not to allocate them in an appropriate amount to those who themselves cannot obtain apartments by buying them. Let me say that our question or disagreement has been answered, why so that this happens simply because we would otherwise not have the resources for our own operational activities, because the country is so poorly concerned about our state housing fund. How is that possible? How can I accept such claims, how can we accept the fact that 100 apartments are not sold and that 110 million Euros, as we have seen today, are deposits of the housing fund. At the same time, the Housing Fund does not comply with contractual obligations to pay subsidies to young families, if any, there is no money. To read to you briefly what I have written out from the Ministry of Environment and Space, which I think has a cynical, arrogant attitude towards this area. So what does it say? Listen. "We believe that within the framework of the material capacity of the municipalities and the state, the principle that the state creates opportunities for a citizen to obtain a suitable dwelling is properly implemented." And in the next paragraph, they calmly acknowledge that they do not actually have records of how much non-profit housing is needed, that they do not know how many young families need it. How will they plan if they do not have basic analytical data and if even when they do, they prefer to do another, they sell for the market to survive themselves, rather than work for those who cannot get their own apartments. I therefore believe that the Ombudsman's warnings are on the spot and that they must be taken into account at least in the future that there will be no more criticism in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected guardian with coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman's report is, in fact, a knock on the conscience of authorities, states, parliaments and all institutions to ensure that they live in a country where human rights are respected in all the areas that we are dealing with. I must say that I am very much in favour of this report, because, without hesitation, it lists those areas and those violations that are most important, which are most prominent, and which affect the people in this country most. Because I don't have a lot of time, I'm going to limit myself to just a few problems, for example, inspection services. The ministries are responding. We don't have enough money for that. We will give 30 million euros a year for the participation of our soldiers in Afghanistan, where this money defends some other interests, certainly not ours. For €1 million, however, 15 relatively well-paid inspectors could be hired to help solve the problem where inspectors are understaffed. Otherwise, it would be easy to hire 20 judges who on the same day would be faced by entrepreneurs who do not pay their employees for a year and who do not have to pay for their bread. But we didn't do it. If we have instruments, we do not use them, if we do not have them, or if we are either slowly or insufficiently proposing their adoption. As a result, this report is so important that we take it seriously again and again and again and try to do something. The protection of the elderly, we have indeed made home for 5% of the aged over 65 years, but we have made it so that most cannot pay the care and in many already the space remains empty, especially in those built in public private partnership, where private capital wants to pay back its stake very quickly and there is a price for most people that is unattainable and even too much space. Those homes that we agreed to build in this term, two homes at least a year after 150 beds, where the care would be cheaper, are not. Two homes would stand, for example, around 14-15 million a year, but this is not in the budget, but we will have 30 million for Afghanistan if I repeat, of course, a senseless claim that we do not need for something and that we have something for what Americans need, for example, and not us. That's what really hurts me. It is certainly also very important that we lose sight of the public interest in healthcare. In fact, there is a new situation where only those who have enough money will get to their services in time, and they are very drawn by law to determine the way and the basis for the functioning of the health system in the sense of public interest in such a way as to ensure that everyone can equally exercise the rights they need in a timely manner. And with regard to the environment and space, I must say that the Ombudsman's report is just proof that it was not only a question of cant when that minister, whose mandate this report was, had to go to, but something far worse. For example, living in a healthy environment was not the priority of this ministry, that it acted unlawfully, that it did not respond to the Ombudsman's calls, that it even prevented the Ombudsman's work, for example, which fought to ensure that permits for the operation of those who might be highly polluting the environment were issued in a timely manner. In doing so, it is very sad that the President of the Government at the time did not know how to say two sentences at the expense of the suspension of the minister and turned out to be a victim who had to leave for political reasons. This report shows why a minister had to leave his post. And that suggests the disaster of that ministry that forgot what we had it for, like people wouldn't get paid there. If I round all this up, look at the question of the guardian, it wonders whether the taking of people there is even capable of carrying out the task for which it is set. A disaster as an example that must tell us more about what to do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I must say that I protest most strongly against your way of leading, Mr President. And I ask the Ombudsman, why does the President of the National Assembly not allow me to speak before the National Assembly? The fact is, he's probably afraid of what he'd say, probably getting ordered, and I think that's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u48	Fascist mode of action [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u49	I will not allow such a discourse in the National Assembly. Let me draw attention to the fact that the Victory of Jelinčič was in line as a speaker, that he was not in the Chamber, that he was late for the debate and that, in accordance with the rules of this assembly and the arrangements, he cannot get a word if he misses the debate. Exchange between colleagues is only possible until a debate has been held, but it is not possible after a late arrival in the Chamber or after a discussion has been held. That is why I warn you, Mr Jelinčič, to keep your eye on the words and, secondly, to appear in the hall when it is necessary and do not throw up the blame on others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u50	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u51	You don't have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u52	Two more colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u53	Your colleagues will get their word if they want it, and if they're in the hall, you can't get those words for them anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u54	short beans [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u55	Watch your mouth.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u56	Fascism.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u57	Mr Jelinčič, the word with which you operate, you operate very easily with it, as with all other things in or outside this hall. Watch out for the words you use. Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u58	Put me in court, and we'll be there. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u59	Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The 1991 Constitution states in Article 159, "to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to state authorities, local self-government bodies and holders of public powers, the Ombudsman of the Rights of Citizens shall be established by law". Well, it took us quite a while to elect the first Ombudsman, Mr Ivan Bizjak, and he was elected on 29 September 1994, and his work took place in 1995. It is said that this year we celebrate some jubilee of the work of the Ombudsman and we are also considering the Fifteenth Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. Throughout this period, I can see that we are increasingly sensitive to this report and are increasingly looking at it more thoroughly. It was my duty to draw up the position of the Group of Members of our then United List of Social Democrats for the first report of the Ombudsman for 1995. We've been dealing with him since he was 19. 11. 1997, almost three years after the Ombudsman's work. Why am I saying that? It is precisely because of what I have stressed at the outset that we are increasingly sensitive to this report. What did this report, this item on the agenda, look like then? In addition to the Ombudsman, Mr Bizjak, we had the position of the then parental committee, that was the Internal Policy Committee, then they presented the position of the three parliamentary groups, it is right that I appoint them, the United List of Social Democrats, DeSUS and LDS, no one else presented the position, nor any of the government's representatives sat in the National Assembly. It's very different today. Here are the ministers and the minister, the secretary of state. Only two members, Roman Jakič and Dr Ciril Ribičič, took part in the debate. There was not even one spectrum of political space in the National Assembly. However, only 48 Members and Members present in this Chamber voted in favour of the 1995 report of the Ombudsman. It is probably clear who we were sitting in here and, with 48 votes, this report was adopted. So much for the history of the first report of the Ombudsman, Mr Ivan Bizjak. Today, I will point out only one problem, which I think is far more problematic than those 20 lines, almost 20 lines that are intended for this problem, in almost 400 pages of a thorough report. This is presented on page 153 of the area of the adoption of spatial acts. This is mainly about municipal spatial plans. Unfortunately, no recommendation and proposal is presented for this issue. I could say, however, that in addition to social, so-called existence problems, job search, employee problems and so on, maybe it's just one or one of the biggest problems in this country, it's a very long-term adoption of municipal spatial plans. Look, I looked at the website for the Krko Congregation. From 2004 to the end of 2009, more than 600 new citizens' initiatives have taken place so that they can, for example, build to change their destination and so on. It is said that more than 600 problems have not yet been solved because we do not have a municipal spatial plan. I looked for the Radovljica Congregation. More than 500 citizens' initiatives have been taken to change the municipal spatial plan. For example, in our congregation, Idrija, we have such initiatives 97. Now, if we sum up all these initiatives for all 210 Slovene municipalities, we get one huge number. However, the municipal spatial plans, which are adopted, can be counted on the fingers of both hands or, I think, not just on one hand, for example at the beginning of this year, were praised in the New City for having received the municipal spatial plan as the first city. I think Ljubljana now has a municipal spatial plan. But most other congregations do not yet. I therefore think that a recommendation or a proposal in this regard should also be needed. Unfortunately, both the congregations and the Government and individual departments are not enough, in my opinion, to respond adequately and quickly to all these proposals. I think that much more needs to be done in the area of the adoption of municipal spatial plans than we have done so far, especially since the lack of acceptance of municipal spatial plans is also a large bar in development, we cannot implement the many development projects that the municipalities have in their development plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers, representatives of the Government, secretaries of state, secretaries, of course, the Ombudsman with colleagues! When you go through this report and you don't really know which chapter you'd stop at more or when you read it, you see, in addition to what Members and Members are also alerting the Government, ministers, how many irregularities, how many injustices are happening to our citizens and citizens, but unfortunately you have no other instrument on the part of the opposition than to stand here, unless, of course, they interrupt you, say and warn you about these irregularities and then simply wait for the institutions you manage to have the country in management, not in ownership, react or do not react. Constitutional rights, electoral rights. It is impossible to tell such an electoral commission, administrative units or the Minister for Foreign Affairs how electoral rights are violated by our fellow citizens living around the world. First they call, write us the exact addresses. The cousins send them the exact addresses, then they get electoral material to those addresses that were previously handled by the authorities. As a result, they receive electoral material for a few days, a week or even more after the final elections or referendums. But, look, we're warning you, and nothing happens. If we move on, to justice and the importance of quality judicial decision. Not everyone, that's what needs to be said, some judges are really working and doing very well. Some, however, do not know what this quality decision is. Somehow, you get the feeling that they're being called from the committee and written in advance about how it's going to be decided. What my colleague just warned me about, the spatial plans. Yeah, you have to be mayor of the Ljubljana Municipality, then you get it. Then you get a decision from the Ministry of the Environment to change the spatial plan on Monday, when you already have a meeting and when you take a change in the municipal plan, of course, without doing so as you should, giving the material and so on. But nothing happens. Nothing happens to those who have violated it. Although, of course, we keep that in mind. Even more, for small municipalities, I don't know, for some who aren't real mayors, the ministry also requires an environmental report, for some people not. The environmental report says, when you read it, there's a profession, someone doing it, so you have to monitor the connection to the sewer network. Tell me, my dears, who in the congregation will come and make a kilometer overnight, two or three sewer networks, even where there are miles and several houses, that the municipality will be the mayor, that the municipal council will monitor the construction of sewerage. All of this is recorded in development programmes. And these are the largest development programmes of all municipalities, and these are all public documents available at the Ministry of Finance because they need to be submitted for the budget. In short, a million things are bureaucratic. We're warning them. There is a lot of this in the report, too, but I would expect the Ombudsman to hold a more decisive attitude after all this time. A simple demand for some things to change. Since it is simply writing these fat books and reminding them of this year after year, unfortunately it does not mean much and does no good to our citizens and citizens. Housing stuff, assignments. My dears, when and why the assignments? Because someone doesn't want to pay, I agree. Because someone can't because they've lost their job because someone in the barons' office, in the tycoons, in those who have drawn money from state banks for private property, for privatisation, for the theft of social property, and they don't pay for it, and they have to save their loans through bank rehabilitation, as is now even predicted, third recovery. I hope that here too the Ombudsman will jump into the air and make it clear that this should be resolved, but not on the shoulders of workers and workers. In the Slovenian People's Party, at the time of privatisation, we were very clear at the outset and said that privatisation must be determined in accordance with legality and justice, and it was already clear at that time that the first ones to submit were, therefore, former owners, that the second ones who added new value should not, of course, become new injustices by privatisation. So we said, if this were to be done justly and legally, then of course it would be significantly different. It was different. Although I have heard that some political parties, where the Slovenian People's Party was not present, have even signed an agreement on the so-called "pragmatic acceptance" of Markovic's system, which then, of course, happened with the so-called domestic redemption, the loans of state banks, what is now out for the third time. How? Of course, there are no guarantees, because if the guarantees were, if all of you were to respond with all of your property, of course, there would be a lot of people standing in front of their own apartment. And, of course, that's justified if millions and millions of dollars were stolen. We have warned and, of course, here in the report itself in one of the very burning chapters, unemployment, it is stated that the number of initiatives relating to unemployment is an important increase due to the well-known events of mass forgiveness. This wave of unemployment has become a major problem in our society. Also this unemployment that some farmers are, and that is good farmers, or some who have somehow saved, wanted to survive the family, train children, not to buy yachts, possessions and I don't know what such basic things are, have set up their entire assets for this, and, of course, have been reduced to a bucket, now they live or are without everything and are tenants in their own apartments. Unfortunately, in recent times, or the time is full of wounds, they say, there is nothing to be heard about worthless certification. So, basically, citizens and citizens of these certificates, in the vast majority, had nothing. Except for individuals who bought these certificates for a few percent of their value, then the state, the government coalition, gave them huge wealth for the certificate hole, in which they were, of course, carefree, unsuspecting owners, because it is usually so that if you get something just like that, then you just spend it. It's a big difference if you have to earn or grow. I would expect from the Ombudsman perhaps an idea, an idea, a reference to the National Assembly or, above all, a government coalition. On the part of the opposition, we have already proposed a number of laws to improve the economic situation, for a lot of swine, which the state prosecutor once said was "not necessarily a crime yet", but I think it has all these elements, if not material, moral, even for those in high political positions or who manage social property. So I'm kind of expecting the Ombudsman to point out that this reallocation of social property will finally have to be done, especially those and those who have come to an asset benefit with crimes that have come to a property benefit through the so-called title or straw companies, those who have come to an asset and property benefit by fraud, contrary to the principles of morality, and also those who have renounced the principle of justice and morals and are still in positions today, or so-called Talum Directors, or so-called other high-ranking officials also in the President's office. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Allow me first to draw up a general opinion on the act under consideration, both on the form and content of this annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. I must say that it is very visual, very transparent, very substantively good, these are concrete examples. For this reason, I personally commend all those who have given both content and form. At the same time, I wonder what the guardian herself has asked herself before the consideration of this annual report, how much and, if so, how much more is the social and legal state of Slovenia. This, of course, concerns not only the Ombudsman, but also our Members and Members. I fear that the Ombudsman's 2010 annual report will be even thicker if it continues as it is now announced. This will, of course, be a poor journey for an even worse situation in the social and functioning of the rule of law. If this continues, I am afraid, I am really afraid that this annual report for 2010 will be thicker. Of course that's not the point. The purpose of the examination and analysis of the annual report is to improve the situation. I would believe as much in improving the situation as there would be more ministers and ministers, as well as their deputies at our commission's hearing and today at this hearing. At first, eight ministerial chairs were empty. It's not a good trip. And this report is not intended to be addressed by Members and Members of the National Assembly, but rather to be heard by the most responsible members of the executive branch. For it is primarily for them to improve each one in his own field. I would not specifically point out what the guardian pointed out at the presentation, one of the ministries, because if we look at the content, we can find that there is someone else to be exposed to. And we may be doing wrong to one of the ministries, but he may not really be able to find the right way for good solutions. But in my personal opinion, it's about systemic matters. It's not that simple. And it's probably not just one minister's duty. It's about connecting, it's about regulating the areas of different ministries. It should be established which ministries are involved. As far as I am concerned about the contents of the Ministry of Environment and the space that has been exposed, and to justify what I have said, it is not just and only this ministry, that probably one of the ministries, I see here one uncoordinated functioning of the authorities of the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Environment and Space. For the contents of this report show this. When the inspection services that should be complemented also act as an advisory, not merely criminal, individual inspectors go even so far as to go to entrepreneurs who are already in crisis, threaten, upset employees, upset business owners and show their cards that they have, of course, which is not good, and if one of the inspectors who belongs to the Ministry of Environment and Space issues a decision that someone has to implement because they do not meet the conditions and, on the other hand, an inspector who belongs to another ministry also comes and says that this inspector is not right. Here is the argument that it is not just one ministry, which the Ombudsman has pointed out today, but far from wanting to defend the Ministry of Environment and Space in any way. It's a lot of mess, at least after this annual report. In some of the discussions of colleagues and colleagues, the Ministry of Environment and Space was also exposed, and I wonder where the Minister of Environment and Space is today. He's got his deputies, but given the state of emergency at this department, I'd expect the minister to be here. He's probably got other responsibilities. But let's just leave what's going on with you, and the nanny at the end of her show apologizes for not having one of the deputies. It would be right if some ministers were excused for not being here today. I have noted some important starting points and content when carrying out the presentation by the Ombudsman. She said, cooperation with the government is good. Later, she failed one ministry more and some others. I think it's about like I'm saying, "You know, my watch is right, it's only five minutes behind." That's how we could take this interpretation. I also took note of her reasonings — some ministers have given us no answers and no explanations. See if this does not reflect, this mess, in fact, on the basic correspondence, whether this mess is not reflected in all social life at present in the Republic of Slovenia. See what a banal example this is, and if we go a little bit deeper, we get the answer that I've already stated that this is reflected in all the failings of social life in much worse content. What worries is that some ministries' explanations are so banal that they say, "too few employees." Yes, dear God, go to the ministries, see how many people are there! I believe that many of the employees are also being bullied, even tortured, because they have to carry out a series of tasks so that someone who is privileged does not have to do that. At the same time, my question is whether those who respond with such content, who are understaffed, have carried out a survey among their employees to get their answers and that this would then be the basis for justifying whether there are very few employees in a particular ministry or cabinet. We have 100,000 unemployed. And if someone can reason that a job is not done because there are too few employees, then he must also be able to justify the need for a new job of one of the workers in a certain work circle, if that is the case. But if this is just and just an excuse for an answer, that is, of course, another question. It is important to ask whether all these ministries are satisfied with such an easy response, but they are confident that they will also satisfy the individual minister, the Prime Minister, as well as us, Members and Members. No one's gonna convince me with that kind of explanation. My belief is, where there is no answer to specific content, there is a poor organization of work. The Ombudsman also highlighted working relationships. You know, before I came to the National Assembly, I was in production for 30 years, in a large system where there were originally so-called self-government acts on labour relations. And we've dealt with them in different instances. And today it's no different. Thus, social partners are also participating in the content of the employment relationship, which follows the rights and obligations of employees. Also in another, previous period, in the previous regime, representatives were employed in addition to the adoption of legislation. But it is not possible to overlook the fact that working relationships today are a major test. Workers are, in one way or another, the weaker article they increasingly take away. These weakest articles are always those who take on the worst burden of such or different crises that we have today in the Republic of Slovenia. But whether we have a governance crisis, whether we have a political crisis, whether there is actually a financial and economic crisis, is of course another issue. Some have survived both the financial and the economic crisis. Some members, including Poland, did not feel at all because they reacted in time. We're waiting for it to happen. As we are waiting for the working relationship to change something on its own. It won't. Torture in the workplace today is one of the categories that should be taken seriously by both the Government and also by Members and Members of the National Assembly. Go to different working environments to talk to employees. Some are silent, silent, because they do not hope to say out loud what is killing them and what violates their fundamental rights and freedoms arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and other acts. Many times the workers are humiliated. Just look at some of the recordings in public media, whether the workers are sitting somewhere in a corner, waiting for charity, or waiting at some window to arrange something, or waiting for their top representative to arrive, or someone else to bring him in and protect him. We see a lot of such scenes in public that a person is directly appalled, but it does not happen here where the emergency should happen and something quickly arranged, almost nothing. And here is really between the opposition and the coalition something that shouldn't be. Continue to say that what we are preparing in the opposition is not good, because this will be systematically resolved by the Government, and it is not by the Government, but what we are proposing is not accepted. And believe me, if we took seriously some of the content of the opposition's proposals, today would be a lot better. I am not saying that I do not know how much, but at least in some areas there would be some bright exceptions. But because of some political insistence, because of some stubbornness, because of the power you display on the other hand, the situation we are talking about today is getting worse. I can't get past the fact that the nanny also mentioned disabled people. Do you know if there is any general belief in the general idea that the disabled person is the one with no hands, or the one we see on the trolley or something else? There are many people with disabilities who do not differ between the crowds of workers and who are disabled. And I think you need to take a look at these people with disabilities. These were people with disabilities who, because of some long - standing forced posture in the process of their work, were so unlucky that this job was made by the disabled. And when they get one category there, when the relevant profession prescribes that they can lift up to five kilograms, I don't know what else, then this worker is an obstacle to the employer. And imagine how much it hurts when someone after 30 or 35 years of work at a company tells you that you're no longer welcome, that they have problems with you and that you're constantly complaining and that you're blackmailing and I don't know what else. You know, this is where you have to be human first and find that this worker, who visually looks perfectly good, but because of some other defects, is disabled and taken as unnecessary in the further production process. Here I also recorded waiting for people in administrative units if I continued to combine this with health problems and poor communication of healthcare staff with service users. You know, there's one general principle that's what the merchants have learned is that the buyer is the king. Some officials and some health - care workers forget that they are there because of people who will come to do some services, not vice versa. And then they let them wait, or they don't deal with them, or they treat these people differently, to feel humiliated, to feel hurt. That's not good. I am sure that there is much more to say today, but I think it is important to conclude with the conclusion that it may be easier for the Ombudsman to say that Slovenia is no longer a legal and not a social state. We've come so far. And we will have to find quick answers, both government and parliament, so that we can improve these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again, hello to the nanny! The report of the Ombudsman for 2009 is correct and professional and we have no comments on the report. However, we do have doubts as to why the guardian did not respond in the matter of Lucky Friend. Is it really just because, as people say, he is a member of the Slovenian National Party? The happiness of the Friend has been investigated in custody and in a court of human rights: the right to fair treatment, the right to independent treatment, the prohibition of the execution of evidence in his favour, the prohibition of asking questions, the refusal of practically all defence witnesses, the refusal of practical evidence of defence, the extension of detention for sending SMSes, while some for the threat of death continue to operate unpunished after Ljubljana, the extension of detention due to SMS. And drug dealers walk around quietly and even perform on TV on various shows, and nothing happens to them. Police abuse for political purposes. Proposed investigation at the house of Jelinčič between 22 p.m. and 6 a.m. Only the correctness of the police can be thanked by Jelinčič for not doing so. He found out from police sources that he was looking for photos from the bulmastif affair file. Madam Guardian, have you taken action in this case? The execution of illegal or illegal wiretaps by Jelinčič, former Minister Pogačnik, Minister Dr. Jelusičev, Secretary of State Horvat, probably half of the government and foreign political officials from the European Union and the environment with which Jelinčič communicated. Ma'am, have you acted? Obstruction or prohibition of police investigations in the Bulmastif affair and the National Investigation Office building. In this case, we're also wondering if you've taken action. Abuse of power to destroy the opposition. We've been missing one member of the National Assembly for more than six months. He was an elected Member. Try to remove one member of the opposition first, then one opposition group and then remove the entire opposition. If that is the purpose, Madam Guardian, you have acted. Questionable legality of the operation of the National Assembly, armed police incursion into the National Assembly, investigations into armed control of the National Assembly. Madam Guardian, even in this case, we have not seen that you have acted. I hope that you will take action now and that we will read about this in the 2010 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič, you probably know that you have been talking about matters that are under way in the appeal process, where responsibilities or conduct will be assessed, and that in this part the Ombudsman cannot act. That's why I only find out. She will assess whether she will answer or not, in fact, the questions addressed to her on your part do not require an answer. That's all I wanted to say. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u68	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues a nice greeting! The 15th Annual Report 2009 is prepared with a proper, very extensive material, but still a transparent, well-prepared report, as it was last year. At the performance of Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, there may have been still concerns about how the matter will lead, but these fears were more due to the typical polarization of ours, yours, on which side it will lean, but this fear was too great. It has maintained the autonomous posture it had before, professionally and with a good team, creating year after year comprehensive reports, which unfortunately do not always receive feedback. We should be concerned when we hear that the Ombudsman also does not receive the responses of the competent institutions of the state authorities, so that they can be shut down at this level, only if they become involved in the position of an individual who turns to a state institution if even the Ombudsman does not receive an answer. I find this to be somehow impossible, and it is incredibly obvious, I have already highlighted this subject on the Commission for Human Rights and I thought it would be good in such cases to have the National Assembly intervene here. If there is a short contact between the Ombudsman and a designated national authority, an institution, it is appropriate to inform the National Assembly and that the parent commission may deal with these matters, short contacts and problems in relation. I hope that this call will also make it possible to improve cooperation at this level, but I do not want to look too dramatic. A large number of cases relate to the area of labour relations, labour rights. It may or may not be excessive if the Republic of Slovenia says that it does not guarantee and protect the right to pay, payments for the work done. If we leave the Constitution, I was a member of the Constitutional Commission myself 20 years ago, the secretary was Mr Rovšek, well, we wrote two articles at the time. Article 49: Freedom of work. Freedom of work is guaranteed. Any free choice of jobs, if you can choose if you have something to choose. Article 66 of labour protection is even more important. The State creates employment and employment opportunities and guarantees their legal protection. In particular, the Constitution does not state that the Constitution also provides payment for the work done, because it seemed to us at the time that work was done to make it look like payment. Unfortunately, we can see that this is not the case. Even today, there are debates between lawyers, constitutional judges at the level of the prosecution, whether this case is prosecuted by official duty, even though we know that it is a crime, how this will be regulated, who is the one who can initiate the proceedings. Finally, we will agree that it will be the individual who will have to press charges, that is, the worker who is the weaker member in relation to the employer - the worker - will have to handle civil lawsuits. I believe that the country should also more effectively protect the interests of this weaker party. I'm afraid it repeats itself. I hope that we will settle this matter in this term. It's not a matter of this mandate, it's a thing of the past, and things have escalated. So the problem is not just social security contributions, the problem pays as such. I hope that, as we say, we will get things on track in this mandate. I also hope, as I initially said, that the relationship between the Ombudsman and the government departments will be better and that Members will also be able to help with this relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. She's got a word for Mrs. Jože Tanko. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. [[She won't discuss it.]] The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all who follow the consideration of the 15th annual report of the Ombudsman! I did this on my own, because at times in the debate I thought we were talking about something else, not the 2009 report. I take my view of the report as already cited in Article 3 of the Law on the Ombudsman, which I attach great importance to, and I do not dare to comment on the cases in the report and which are not, because I understand that the report reflects those cases, as the Ombudsman said in the report, those open cases that came to his address in 2009. And here let me tell you some more statistics, though I can't say that I'm just a passionate fan of statistics, but still. As we all mention the scope of the report, however, it must be said that the index compared to 2008, when we are talking about deposits received, is slightly over 90%, which means that, according to 2008, fewer deposits have arrived at the Ombudsman's address. I have no comparative data to tell you what is the relationship between legitimate roles and those which he did not consider to be such a guardian of human rights. But in any case, 2 000 775 cases were completed in 2009, of which 704 were substantiated. Why am I specifically mentioning this information, and what do I take out of it? When we ask ourselves about the importance of the institution of the Ombudsman in Slovenian society, one of the indicators is whether those who turn to the Ombudsman turn in all those cases where human rights are actually violated. It can happen that the most resounding cases, which are also often dealt with in the media, do not show signs of human rights violations. Let me remind you of one such case, which, according to my profession and location, was especially important to me when he was in the media. This is the case under serial number 160, and this is a talk about the early end of the childhood holiday organised by a non-governmental organisation. We followed in the media, especially in electronic, many videos. I must say that I have often been accompanied by a feeling of discomfort not to say defeat when I listened to statements by individuals and press comments, because it was my opinion that a particularly sensitive group of children was because the NGO that organises these holidays usually organises them for those children who come from socially disadvantaged environments. So for some, it's the only way children can get to sea. But that children come from different educational patterns is true. It seems very important to me what is written here: "After examining all the material, serious consideration and examination of children's rights, as set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Ombudsman concluded that due to the early return of some children, their rights were not violated at home, regardless of how we looked at the event, and notwithstanding the fact that the Ombudsman does not remain silent in the opinion that some mistakes were made in the process, but that those who sign a declaration must also be aware of the responsibilities of signing this declaration." And here I would like to point out how I see my rights. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are protection of the weak in contact with the stronger than themselves. And the stronger one is the one who is obliged to do all that he is charged with so that he can exercise his rights more weakly. And in this context, it does not seem so important to me that we like to raise this issue especially in children and especially in the event of school, that we only talk about rights and we do not explain their duties to children. Yes, it is the responsibility of teachers, adults, all institutions to educate children to have a sense of what is ethical, what is right and what is legally right. Both must be legally correct and ethical as well. Therefore, it seems to me that the Ombudsman's institution is essential to raising people's awareness of this and that much has been done in these years. That is why I understand the debate that the Minister of Education and Sport had as President of another body on the Petitions Commission, as the Ombudsman also understood, no matter how individual words were used, as I said on the committee. I quote a magnetogram, "It's a shame that Dr. Lukšič isn't here right now. In fact, his idea of discussing the Ombudsman's work and powers, as well as to my colleagues, is interesting and, of course, we support it in principle. I would just like to say that human rights as a term change over time, evolve. It is now clear what the human rights of the third generation are." And I won't go on. So the reaction to Dr. Lukšič's statement on the committee was made by three presenters. However, after the magnetogram I was looking for what Minister Luksic was supposed to say, and it is not possible to trace it in the magnetogram. I am reading now from the tapegram by the President of the Commission when she said this, "It is also interesting that Dr Lukšič felt that the National Assembly was no longer a place to discuss the purpose of the Ombudsman's institution and its powers". That's not what Minister Luksic said. And I think that, despite the fact that I do not dare to interfere with the right to my own opinion and position, Minister Luksic pointed out in his debate the delimitation of powers between the various branches of government. I do not doubt for a moment that Dr Lukšič knows what the Law on the Ombudsman imposes on the National Assembly and that the National Assembly is the place in which we need to discuss the report. This is, after all, also the answer to Mr Puksic. The law provides, therefore, for the Ombudsman to deliver the report to the President of the National Assembly and not to the President of the Government. The National Assembly has a particularly important role here, and I therefore also understand the views of some fellow Members, who have also been critical of how the executive branch responds to individual questions. I must admit that I would expect more response from local authorities as well. In the National Assembly, a large number of mayors and guardians have been sitting for some time at frequent visits in the local environment, pointing to the failure of certain rights, particularly those linked to the right to subsidised rent in local environments and to the resolution of housing problems. If I could see that the effects of these warnings also show up at local level and that the warnings of inadequate housing regulations are quite permanent, they are repeated, so if I saw any result here, I would be satisfied, irrespective of the fact that I believe that the National Assembly is nevertheless obliged to discuss the problems at national level and not only at local level. I'm going to touch another mantra that we've been listening to lately, and this is a question of the fall on the media freedom scale, as seen by journalists without borders. For the last time, it was said that Slovenia on this scale on the freedom scale slipped to 46th place. In doing so, it was silenced that climbing down the ladder had been observed since 2002 when we were on this chart 4 and since then, Sorry 14, we had four points. I've changed the data here, and since then, we've been falling on this scale ever since. What I think is worth mentioning today was again as if freedom of the media had been judged only when the current Prime Minister of the Government polarised — the former Prime Minister of the Government. The fact is that the fall on the press freedom scale in this last report is linked to the previous Prime Minister of the Government for his lawsuit against the Finnish journalist. I'm not going to argue with what the criteria for determining media freedom are. I'm not going to argue with that, and I don't know who it was that answered 50 questions. But it's about journalists, researchers and legal experts who sensed that the field of media freedom was getting stronger. But that's the way I see it. Once again, we are entitled not to abuse the power of those who have power. And if any conduct is known or mentioned as unacceptable, and because of this also within ongoing procedures, procedures that have not yet been concluded are being sued, this is a point worth mentioning to me. We forget this, but again I quote the report for 2009 as well, which was also considered that at the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, where we considered the report of the US Foreign Ministry, there was a literal reference in that report, 'individuals were able to criticise the executive branch publicly or privately without retaliation. However, the executive authorities did not attempt to restrict criticism." This is how the actions of the current Prime Minister and the executive branch of the government have been seen by another report. I do not want to absolve this, not that report, but I would expect that when we refer to some of the findings, we try to put these findings in correlation with other conclusions. If I respond to one more thing that is always of particular concern to me, it is a matter of eternal or permanent dissatisfaction as to what is in the report and what is not in the report. In particular, at the outset, I have said that I am looking at this from the point of view of the applications received and am not prejudiced to the right of the Ombudsman to choose from among the applications received the cases included in the report. Of course, it is not possible, after these 160 chosen cases, to say and to know whether these were indeed all the things that have occurred to the Ombudsman. That is why those introductory chapters in which the Ombudsman’s work has been synthesized and where he himself, without hierarchizing the problems, indicate which were the most frequently mentioned problems the Ombudsman faced during the year in question, how to answer the fundamental question of whether Slovenia is a social state or whether Slovenia is a legal state. If you listen to the voice of the people, as they say, then those who feel that their rights are being violated, who are dissatisfied with the state of things, often with pain, resentment, or anger, they respond greatly to the opposite. But if I am trying to judge from the point of view whether Slovenia is a legal state, then I must also commend the report and the efforts of all those institutions that have the role of supervisory mechanisms, that with all due diligence and without the desire to simplify things accurately and with sensitivity weigh whether the legal procedures and legal pathways have actually been violated and the individual has been wronged. Here, however, it seems to me that we cannot remain impartial or calm to draw attention to the issue of expert opinions, to questions such as how many trials have been returned from a higher level to a lower level, as well as the shortcomings found in the proceedings. I am aware that the next report cannot be expected to be less extensive. I wish it were, but we don't live in an ideal society. The social situation is getting worse. The rate of tolerance is generally decreasing in a tense social situation and in the event of an increase in poverty. As a result, I think that the number of those who turn to the Ombudsman will increase. If this helps to make us all more sensitive as society to respect human rights, it will not be so bad. I would also like to see that over time the views of the Ombudsman change, as did one of the debaters, who – and now I am talking about the person who acts as the Ombudsman, who has often been criticized in this Chamber, not to say ashamed – today revealed as a person worthy of general respect and greater competence, such as those who perform this function now. I think that each individual is performing this task to the best of his ability and as the signs of time show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word will be given to government representatives. Minister of Public Administration, Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u72	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Our Ministry is entrusted with the role of collecting from the ministries the responses to the proposed recommendations of the National Assembly, the measures and shortcomings that the Ombudsman detects every year in the work of the administration. I therefore thank you, on behalf of the representatives of the Government, both the Institute of the Ombudsman and you, Members and Members, for your reflections and recommendations for better work of the administration, which, of course, is the one that provides public and administrative services both at the level of ministries and in relation to the day-to-day contact with our citizens. The red thread of all debaters and the weakness, as noted by us in the current government, is a response to the current problems of time. That's the problem. I would like to apologize to the administration, in 2009, where this response was perceived as being worse, to say the following on behalf of the Government. The year 2009 was an unusual year. In fact, the beginning of the new government's mandate was accompanied by the biggest crisis since World War II. Not only was it the task of the Administration to prepare, find, to find measures to respond to the consequences of this crisis, which were reflected in the banking sector, in walking the economy, in large numbers of unemployed and non-payment disciplines. In short, much in the past has shown a major problem in 2009 and has challenged the administration. Not only did the administration have to respond and find appropriate measures, but it had to act without delay, which, in the past years, also had to be put under the rug by policy because of its disfavor. Structural reforms were no longer a choice, whether it was politically an opportunistic moment to embark on reforms, pensions, health, modernisation of the public sector, more efficient public administrations and so on. This has simply become a fact. The urgent action of the administration has also focused on the immediate preparation of structural reforms. In fact, not only in this work, poor European funding, if you want, has required the current government to find answers to the questions raised earlier, how to prepare projects immediately, as soon as possible, so that we can invest the European Structural Funds in an adequate way by 2013. Here, too, the administration, as instructed by the current government, was obliged to meet all the horses. So much for the apology in this part, if by the guardian, despite the indisputable non-derogability of cooperation with the ministries of the field, can be detected forests which can also be objective in nature due to the above. However, it is also an indisputable problem of systemic changes in perceptions in the way the guardian presents it very nicely. If, in 2007, 2008 the problem of government deficit and arrogance in the preparation of regulations and policy-making, because it did not ensure the participation of the public concerned, NGOs in the preparation of regulations, it was resolved by the relevant system framework in 2009, which does not, of course, mean that it works as it was set up. What did we face when we prepared this system framework and analyzed the situation? That the creation of regulations in recent years has been entrusted for various objective reasons to institutions outside ministries. What did that mean? This actually meant, during a period of time, a weakening of power, the professionalism of the apparatus at ministerial level. We are immediately finding that we do not comply with the principles of regulation as set out in the Lisbon Strategy, so that we are obliged to deregulation, to reduce the number of regulations, that the rules must be determined, that we must remove administrative burdens, that we must analyse the effects of existing rules, that all of these principles have been weakened and, of course, have been reduced, because the administration in its work has not been able to interpret, implement and monitor the good rules that have emerged from it. And since the analysis of the effects of the regulations has not been produced at all, the Court of Auditors has pointed out that this process, which we have now established, will be a mandatory analysis of the effects of the regulations, cooperation with the public for 30 to 60 days, responds to this public opinion or comment, why it has not been taken into account, the provision of sub-legislative acts, together with the regulations of the National Assembly, despite the education of the people and despite the seminars we are organising for the administration, and it will take some time to re-energise in this direction. That is why we have also foreseen an annual report to the National Assembly because of the pressures. Is it now in accordance with these principles that will lead, as Mr Frangež has kindly pointed out, to a less normal country, clearer rules, better controlled and so on? All of these are activities that we have already started in the first days of our term in addition to all our obligations. It certainly takes some time, and in the long run these processes will certainly be better. Two other measures have been detected and recommended by our ministry in the Ombudsman's report as an improvement. It is a matter of making it possible to vote for as many people as possible. In fact, citizens who are elderly, elderly and at home have been given an initiative here, and this today is no reason in the electoral legislation to vote in the post office. We have studied the initiative carefully. The new Law on Elections in the National Assembly, which I hope will be adopted by the National Assembly in 2011, solves this very issue, in a way that will also be possible in the Republic of Slovenia to vote by mail for no valid reason. This institute is known to us by comparable countries. We believe that in view of abstinence, increasing electoral participation and also for the reasons stated by the Ombudsman, this institution should also be incorporated into our electoral system. Volunteering at systemic level has not been regulated to date. The Ombudsman draws attention to the importance of this voluntary human solidarity work. The government has committed itself to preparing this regulation in 2009. Due to the specificity and resolution on normative activities, we have prepared it in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, which, after a two-month public debate, is in fact already in government procedure. The law will be adopted next Thursday at the government's meeting, and by the end of the year there will be a Member and Members of the National Assembly. This is about, the government shares the Ombudsman's opinion, an extremely important area, which we need to regulate at systemic level so that we can start recording this work at all. The government has committed itself to this and in 2011, when the year of volunteering will also apply, I am sure, the first system law in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Shirca, Minister for Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The 2009 report of the Ombudsman in the field of wider culture and media does not detect major worrying situations, although it does touch on some areas that the Government must take seriously and also in future carefully to ensure that standards are not reduced and that situations that have been perceived as not yet sufficiently well regulated are improved. In this light, I would like to highlight at least the solutions that some Members have highlighted within the debate itself. In particular, I would like to highlight those solutions that the Government has been implementing more actively in the course of the current year in the light of the spirit of this annual report. To begin with, if we meet in the report on the media in the area of dangerous infringements or inappropriate behaviour in the light of child abuse and juvenile rights, let me draw attention to which the Ombudsman's report is particularly sensitive and concerns in some cases media abuse in the sense of more shocking reporting or manipulative reporting in case of carefree reporting. If I am more precise, especially in the use of child appointment and some form of carelessness in reporting. Let me stress that in the draft Media Law, which is so much ahead of public debate or still in professional coordination, we have foreseen those situations that would correct any irregularities in the current law, which would alert us to inconsistencies or better regulation in particular in the light of the facts referred to by the Ombudsman, and also her constant warnings that particularly vulnerable, particularly sensitive representatives of our society, are called children and minors, to be carefully protected and not left to possible manipulations, which have many times fallen into the hands of economic logic. Let me draw attention to this point, for example, which the Cultural Heritage Inspectorate and the media has cured in the sense that he has issued fines in the event of inappropriate conduct when young people have been used for covert advertising on national television. But this is one of many cases that is under the watchful eye of an inspectorate, which can in some way only in a material and moral sense warn by measures. As a result, we have examined this chapter carefully and have also improved in those ways that allow for bypassing or direct manipulation. Otherwise, we have strengthened the protection of other options, and I believe that in the general public debate that will take place in this law, you will also be paying attention to Members and Members of Parliament. We point to a very, very important segment of self-regulation, that is to say that the segment that may sometimes be too small and sometimes even more important than any criminal provision that can be regulated by law. Within the media legislation that is coming soon to the plan, we encourage precisely these possibilities of self-regulation and perhaps even a return to the thought that has already been on the table in the past, and we have clearly had a few reserves to it, the potential of a media guardian or some independent body that would be vigilant in the media. And if we are in the media, it is also worth referring to today's already commented statement on the report of journalists without borders recently, or this week, presented on the drop in the press freedom index in Slovenia as well, Slovenia has moved somewhere between France, which is 44th place, and Italy, which is 49th place, this is between two European countries to 46th place, which is not good. However, as has already been said and rightly pointed out today, the reasons for this slip need to be examined, which is not appropriate, as it was not appropriate in the 2008 report. And when we analyzed this slip, it's also appropriate to understand why it happened. In 2008, one of the priority reports of journalists or experts who evaluated and answered these 50 questions was that prohibition in the case of the Journal in the so-called Cherani case. This year, according to the report, the dangerous approximation of former Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi, as well as the Slovak Prime Minister, who demanded a high penalty for a journalist who warned of alleged irregularities in the execution of a public contract, is at the forefront of the report. However, this report needs to be carefully understood by all European countries or most European countries, as the process of erosion of media freedom is also observed in Europe and this is a general trend towards the deterioration of freedom of the press. I believe that, even in the report for the following year, in the light of recent verbals, I apologize for the expression, the omissions that restrict or endanger freedom of the press, which can also be very sensitive in this light and a warning to Slovenian society at all. In the case of another chapter, I would like to stop, namely a chapter which has also been carefully processed by the report, in the case of a section of minorities. Here, it is appropriate to listen to the initiatives of Members and Members that care for minorities should be exercised carefully in the light of appropriate co-financing. And we have already discussed in the Government that, if the general care and cost of the budget in the light of the current situation has led to an excessive fall in co-financing by the Office for the Two Minorities on RTV Slovenia, it is appropriate to correct and follow the recommendations made today, since they are very sensitive and certainly unnecessary distortions of rights in the provision of media content. Let me conclude with an important observation also within the Ombudsman's report when, in a chapter that speaks of unrecognized minorities and of the need to take more account of them, if I call them free modern, constitutionally unrecognized minorities. I think it is considered an important step or move of solutions within the RTV Slovenia Act, which was adopted this week in the National Assembly, which is these modern-day minorities, said members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, were duly classified to ensure public interest in this area. In this light, I believe that other segments of society will take into account this presence and the necessity to respect their cultural and identity options. In this light, I reiterate that the Ministry of Culture, within the tenders we have, should also take account of this segment. And another very important step, which is also not only in the segment of these vulnerable groups in Slovenia. It is also important to take into account the fact that participation has increased significantly in the last two years for vulnerable groups also in the field of culture. Let's say, with the initial million seven hundred, if I'm more concrete, the euro worth of the European budget for these groups, we are going to increase this much in the coming years to solve the programmes, because it turns out that the programmes are undernourished and, above all, that there is not only a need on the market, but also a very large number of groups that can be serviced very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr Roko Žarnic, Minister of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary for Human Rights, honourable Members and Members of the Government! I am pleased that on this occasion we can provide some clarifications about the work of our ministry, which, due to its scope and also its diversity of work, is perfectly normal and creates a very high interest in the public, because our work can touch more than any other ministry so visible to the everyday lives of citizens. Like any other minister before me, I inherited a wealth of problems. I believe that each of my predecessors tried to do their job honestly and conscientiously and to solve these problems. Believe me, it's not an easy task, and I realized that, but I'm not taking things too personally, easier work. A lot of readings fly to the address of employees' behavior in our ministry. I think of the Ministry as one big company. The range of quality of personnel is very wide in each company. We have some sort of arrangement along some curve, which is what it is, with most of those who do the work on average, with as many of those who are above average as possible, but some of those with whom we are not particularly satisfied and are below average. I wish that the average of knowledge, effort and everything that represents the quality of the employee is high. If the average is high enough, the mean is not that low. We often hear in public that there are people in the ministries and in the government who do not have to be so afraid of losing their jobs, but believe me, at least as far as I've met my fellow workers, they are working hard and have a sense of responsibility. I can't get a job because I don't have to do my job. There are subjective reasons for doing bad work, or we cannot say bad, perhaps work for which we are not all satisfied, but there are many objective reasons. Inside this framework, how to work with colleagues and act in such a large company, I feel a problem that may not be formally solved, a problem of reward. We got a pay scale. People expect inside this scale to be rewarded over the scale. And I'd be like the director if I said so as the minister wanted us to go in the negative direction of the award. Look, if you have an average, you have a 10% range, it's already 20% range or you can do even more. Unfortunately, we are reacting too quickly and the response, as I said, can be subjective, objective. There may be very legitimate criticisms, but these criticisms and inactivity of individuals cast a bad light on those who work hard. Unfortunately, we are so made that we do not see positive grades. This is possible in Slovenia also something in our upbringing, when we often over-instruct a child about what he has not done well and often commend him. And in some cultures, they know not only how to build, but also how to praise. Unfortunately, we don't seem to be very good at it. As an example, I can refer to our inspectors, IRSOP. For example, in 2009, about one hundred letters were received from the Ombudsman, and they did not respond as they should. Delays are often the result of a large number of regular tasks that we perform on a daily basis, and sometimes the problem of lack of staff, particularly in the tip-offs, when response is urgently needed, as we have seen in the last days also in the activities of the geodetic administration. Because of the limited number of inspectors, we will in the future think about what to do, and we will help ourselves with those of our fellow workers who are in national and national parks that can also carry out part of this control in nature. We will see what can be done in cooperation with the congregations and in other ways, perhaps even some government officials who are elsewhere, and we may also be helped to do so. But we need to know that problems are of different degrees. Let's say, I'm going to be very banalized, the problem of a balcony that's 10 centimeters too far, is also a violation of the law, like some behavior that weighs heavily on the environment. With a limited number of fellow workers, of course, we will first grasp a problem that is of wider importance and then one where we can put up a little patience and later process. I try to assess problems objectively and to make sure that my associates do the same. In doing so, I hope that this is also the way users and critics do our work. I believe that's how they do it. Within our ministry, the reorganisation began, after I arrived with some debates, thinking, and now with the so-called rotation or transfer of people to places where we believe they will be more effective, because after a certain period of time you will get tired and tired of one and the same work. Sometimes a replacement is welcome and contributes to quality and motivation in the performance of the work. The great problem of our ministry is the dispersion at various addresses, including the recording of arrivals, departures, if I don't say anything else. For this reason, I am very pleased that there has been a possibility of rounding up, at least the work of our ministry in one place. The following year, we hope to bring as many of our colleagues together under one roof and thus complete our internal reorganisation. In 2011, this is what we expect, and so I ask for a little patience, some visible effects, some of which will also be more responsive, and the problems that our colleagues can experience every day because of the different, I will not say the pressures, but the desire, we are trying to objectivise these things. On 5 October this year, the Housing Council met for a long time. We know this world hasn't worked in a while. Very soon after my arrival, we reorganised the world and then called it in. I must say, the members of the world are extremely motivated, taken. There are some of them that have already been in the previous world, and some of them are new now. We tried to get a representative membership inside, and very soon we agreed, we saw that maybe two of the orientations of the new housing policy that we're going to start creating in this world, even in the direction of renting, are true increases in the solution to the housing problem by hiring. This also makes it easier to follow the needs of the socially weaker layers of our society, especially the young and the final stages of the student population. Secondly, in this policy, there will also be a strong emphasis on the renovation of the existing housing fund in terms of capacity and energy efficiency, as we know that we live in earthquake areas. We know what happens when there's an earthquake. We know how much this costs us, and we should devote a lot of attention to this in advance, because about 10% of the cartridge in terms of what happens when we have to fix it can be arranged in advance. In order not to become too professional, I would also like to ask the media to say something about successful activities. I met with Postojna Cave. The problem was solved. I met the Turtles. Things are running, just like I promised, we're hand-hunting. I have encountered waste management, the strategy is developing successfully, the responses here are quite well received and are working hard on this. I am proud that, in my mandate, the long story of the Triglav Park has ended with the law, which I do not deserve, but I am glad that it is in my mandate. It is also about the Law on the Placement of Objects of State Interest in Space. However, I must say that these are the successes of the people who were before me at this ministry and are still here. That's why I'm talking about success. Response from our ministry to parliamentary issues is also quite good. I must commend my colleagues who are preparing my answers. They're not always exactly what they want, but they're more or less good enough. We have accelerated our work in the normative field, which is also reflected in our activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Guardian with Fellow Members, Members and Members and, of course, colleagues, representatives of the Government! Today's debate has repeatedly raised the question of whether Slovenia is still a social state. Please don't understand my reference to some objective facts as in the direction that we don't understand the pressures of all individuals who are in distress. The individual in distress, of course, in terms of statistics for him, the degree of risk of poverty and other data mean nothing. In the context of this, however, I would like to put forward the scope of the Slovenian social state and the doubts raised by it, and I would like to point out that the recommendations set out in the Ombudsman's report have been very important in our work as well, that there are always certain derogations from the grey fox and that we will try to take this into account as much as possible in changing legislation. Therefore, if I mention some objective facts concerning the Slovenian social state, it is necessary to say in this context that, this year, we earmarked more than €300,000 for various benefits under social rights, so that we increased our expenditure by 10% this year compared to last year, in order to increase our expenditure by €229.8 million in the context of social assistance. In the area of employment, we have increased these funds by 756.6 million and in the area of family benefits by 245.9 million. It is also interesting to note that the resources allocated to various social rights in the period 2008 to 2011 increased by 1.25 billion. These may be some numbers. On the other hand, it must also be said that the level of poverty risk in Slovenia is still one of the lowest in Europe, according to the latest data, that the unemployment rate is among the lowest in Europe, which does not, of course, reduce the fact that we have almost 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia. However, last year, with two intervention laws and the first full-time subsidy and others, we reduced the unemployment rate by at least 25,000 when we allowed a temporary waiting period for work involving more than 85,000 employees. Our actions are also considered successful by the European Commission and its evaluations. We have done a lot, increased funding for active employment policy by more than half. This year, we have dedicated 141 million to active employment policy measures. In this account, we have included over 77,000 unemployed people in these measures. And more than 16,000 direct jobs went from this address. If I give you another very important information. This year we have included more than 7,000 unemployed people in public works. These are all measures by which, if not adopted by the Government, these pressures of people in times of greatest financial and economic distress would be so much greater. In doing so, it should also be pointed out that in the National Assembly you have adopted a new Labour Market Regulation Act on the proposal of the Government, which raises monetary compensation for the first three months and makes it essential to have access to this right for young people who are, unfortunately, employed mainly for a certain period of time and do not fill a period of at least one year in order to be entitled to a cash refund under the previous law, at least for a period of three months. We did all this. In addition, you have accepted, we have proposed an amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act, which, at the time of the crisis, raised money social assistance for the most vulnerable in our society from EUR 229 to EUR 288. Those who do not have a chance to survive and cannot work are over 63 years old and are unable to work, i.e. disabled, will receive €450 from next July. So, we did all this. We also raised the minimum wage. We did all this in the year of the worst financial and economic crisis, which was not possible and wanted to be done at the time of this country's greatest abundance. By amending the legislation that we are adopting at the Ministry, we really want to protect the most vulnerable, to ensure greater transparency of the social state systems. It is also important that we try and approach this even more intensively in the coming year, to reorganise our key institutions, in particular the centres for social work, where in some cases their inefficiency is justified and in some cases unjustified. The Single Entry Point Act will require a substantial reorganisation of their work, in particular to reduce administrative burdens and to be able to focus on individuals, to go to the field. It is also important to cooperate with NGOs, as it is easier to reach individuals together and also to provide them with the most appropriate form of assistance. Inspection services have been repeatedly exposed today in the Ombudsman's report and by Members. We are at our inspection service, that is, at the Labour Inspectorate last year, despite the limitations of human resources policy, we have provided eight new jobs. We are also strengthening the Inspectorate this year, and by amending the Employment and Prevention Act, the Customs Administration will have new powers in this area so that we can be more effective in monitoring. So we are trying our best to amend legislation and reorganise services to ensure that this inspection is even more effective. The area of discrimination based on disability has also been exposed several times, perhaps pointing out that Tuesday's vote on one of the very important laws in this area will be on the Equalization Act, which will bring some important rights for people with disabilities to reduce their discrimination in society. Of course, there are still some tasks ahead of us in this area. In particular, it is necessary to adopt the Personal Assistance Act, as well as the Social Protection Act for mentally and physically disabled persons, which is urgently needed for changes. The area of discrimination is, not only for the disabled, but also for other groups, one of those areas that needs to be given a lot of attention. Change is gradual, step by step. The next report will probably also have some comments, and it is also because this is a matter where it is also important to change the relationship of all of us individuals and legislative changes alone are not enough. I am pleased that there are fewer comments in this report on the family area, mainly because, under the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, the rules on the operation of different services have been adopted to communicate with each other. An action plan has also been adopted, which does not, of course, mean that domestic violence is no longer a problem, but we now have much more effective legal material so that we can approach these problems more effectively. I would like to be able to carry out a debate on the family code as quickly as possible, as this remedys the many shortcomings that have been exposed for many years as one of the fundamentals in reporting to the Ombudsman. There is also the right of same-sex persons to be understood as a marginal group to which the Government is supposed to be overly compassionate. We don't think so. Human rights are universal and must be guaranteed to all. Perhaps I would like to give a few more words to the rights of workers in the working relationship, because it has also been highlighted in the report and also in the implementation of the Member. Perhaps it is only that it is probably good news that we have decided that in the new proposal of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act there is no longer the possibility of postponing contributions or making a hand-in-hand payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance, which has actually passed all the limits of taste. We have taken the view that contributions are part of the salary, so we see them as fundamental rights arising from the working relationship, and someone else, that is, our employer, cannot talk on our behalf about putting our contributions down, paying no, and maybe some time later paying for it. So, I think we have implemented one of the important recommendations and warnings with this proposal. It is also important to say here that we have signed the missing social agreements with the former Yugoslav republics this year. Thus we have signed an agreement with Serbia, it has also been ratified and will now enter into force in November. We have also adopted an agreement with Montenegro and, of course, we have acceded as soon as possible by Bosnia and Herzegovina to the amendment of the agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the unfortunate Article 5 does not allow workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain monetary compensation unless they have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. We have repeatedly called on the Bosnian side to join. Now, on 21 September, we have managed to harmonise this amendment to the agreement and a signature is expected and ratification is expected as soon as possible. We've agreed to a so-called mini-ratification. This means that when it is ratified, the next day will come into force precisely for the sake of eliminating this greatest anomaly for the benefit of all these workers. With regard to the dismissals themselves and the problems relating to the infringement of fundamental rights from the labour relationship, the relationship between the worker and the employer is a matter of concern, and unfortunately not as much legislation as it has been pointed out, for example, that the worker should not have the right to cancel the employment relationship if he does not get paid. In fact, our legislation allows this, namely Article 112 of the Labour Relations Act, is very clear in which cases an extraordinary worker’s resignation is possible, while the worker retains all rights. Indeed, the problem is in informing these workers, particularly foreign workers. We have also set up a contact point here for foreign workers, but it is still necessary to appeal to the role of trade unions operating in these companies to inform workers of their fundamental rights that workers can also exercise these rights. Maybe just for the end. Thanks again for this good work done by the office, the whole team, and we're always ready for interviews. In fact, in contact with individuals who turn to the Ombudsman and her office, the Ombudsman has a certain insight into situations that may not even come up to us, and it is with the common strong that we can achieve, and this is also our key objective that citizens have those key rights and that access to these rights will also be ensured. In fact, this year's report raises the most issue of accessibility to social rights and not so much the issue of social rights themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ministers, ministers and secretary of state spoke. With this we have completed the presentations of the Government's positions and I give the floor to Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman of Human Rights. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to thank all those who attended and participated actively in today’s meeting. We will examine the Magnetogram of the meetings carefully and specifically the recommendations of the debaters for the Ombudsman's work and, of course, the annual report, a document that is supposed to be the basis for improving the situation in the area under consideration. So today we are also discussing the fate of the Ombudsman's recommendations, but we are not talking about accepting the annual report as such. As you know, the report is not only a matter of acceptance and approval, but mainly a debate on the situation in the field of human rights. I would now like to respond to some of the initiatives and comments made by Members, and the statements made by the members of the Government will be discussed at future working meetings. The Ombudsman does not reject proposals to objectively evaluate his work so far. Even the opposite – last year we proposed to go to the analysis, but of course we would need some additional resources to do so. From this debate on how to evaluate the Ombudsman's work as objectively as possible, we expect answers to a few dilemmas, such as the issue of special guardians, which are also provided for by the Constitution and in particular the National Human Rights Institute. It would therefore be appropriate to reconsider, as soon as possible, whether the Government's decision to abolish the Council of Europe Information Office is a good solution, even though we are only looking at it from the point of view of the budget. I am afraid that in two years' time we will all find that it is a real shame that the Ombudsman's proposal on the Centre for Human Rights has not been adopted, which could be the design of a future national institution for human rights that we do not have, and we are also reminded of this weakness from abroad. We also agree with Mr Anderlič's proposal to discuss how to protect the rights of children who are mainly involved in intensive sports training, at the parents' wishes. As a guardian, I cannot leave this area to a market where children's success is actually being traded, with too little voice being heard and cooperation being ensured under the pressure of parents and coaches. Our aim was not to achieve additional regulation, but rather to introduce additional supervision over this public eye of less accessible inclusion of children in special activities, as training in high-level sports is not part of the regular activity of children. I welcome the proposal by Mr Guid Kres to introduce a black list of employers. Of course, it would be even better if such a list were accompanied by concrete procedures against irresponsible employers and managers. Ambassador Milan Potrč pointed out the progress made in the consideration of the Ombudsman's report. This and such progress is also observed by us, particularly the direction towards what needs to be done to improve the situation. Ambassador Mirko Brulc emphasises discrimination due to disability. I would like to mention that I have already met people of various forms of disability in person in the past year and have helped them to survive this period in a variety of ways until appropriate legislation is adopted. And we also meet and try to help them through charities. I don't know if these people would agree with the description of my operation, as provided by Member Mira Friday. That I am and would be different from Mr. Hanzk, and I announced right after my election as the guardian of the human race. Perhaps now is also the time to rediscover the Ombudsman's decision to choose the subject for the annual report. The Ombudsman’s initiatives form the basis for our operation and reporting as well. In the statistical review, you can see how their share is changing, we focus more on more numerous areas and on those where initiatives are linked to particularly serious infringements. According to Member Mir Petka, a selection was made on the basis of political recalculation without any concreteisation of this claim. I do not know if I have misunderstood anything, but Mrs Eva Irgle stressed in her presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, i.e. SDS, that the political impact in the annual report is not detectable. As I know, both Members are members of the same Group of Members. When I hear from Mr Matevž Frangež that he thinks Slovenia is a multicultural society, I can only wish to hear something similar from other politicians and public figures. Especially at the present time, when those who are somewhat uneven are exposed to additional pressure. Ambassador Willi Rezman notes that the government is not creative enough to find a solution and explains it in more detail and in an argument. We will certainly examine the magnetogram of his contribution very carefully. Ambassador Znidarsic raises the issue of budgetary priorities. In his opinion, concern for the fellow human being should be a top priority. Member Bevk only points out that we did not make any recommendations in the annual report regarding the adoption of municipal spatial plans. We are aware of this, we are already preparing more on this subject and you will be able to read in the 2010 annual report. I am also pleased with the warnings of Ambassador Franz Pukšič. It points to the issue that we would like to ignore, namely, the topic of voters from abroad and the late dispatch of electoral materials. I must say that some of the affected voters from abroad have also turned to the guardian, and these matters are still being cleared by the electoral commission. Some of our findings suggest malpractice, I think it was administrative units. In short, that's how the mail got lost. But Member Pukšič said something that I must also respond to; he said he would expect a stronger attitude and clear demands from the Ombudsman. I must say that the Ombudsman can only function within his powers, i.e. those prescribed by the Law on the Ombudsman. It does not give the Ombudsman any executive powers, nor does it give political power. Both are contrary to the principles of the functioning of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman's most powerful weapon is an argument, is knowledge, resulting in finding irregularities and warning of shortcomings and making recommendations. As Mr Marinič mentioned, the aim of the debate is to improve the situation. I also find his comments on those who are present and absent to be weighty. What he mentioned in connection with our criticism of the Ministry of Environment and Space seems very important to me, although perhaps a little differently we have warned about it. There is some finding of infringements by inspections, and another is enforcement of decisions. When I mentioned that cooperation with the Government was good, and then some criticisms were also raised, it seemed somewhat contrary, but cooperation also referred to other forms, not only to the resolution of initiatives. It is the preparation of joint projects, such as the Advocate – the voice of the child, the successful implementation of the optional protocol under the Convention against Torture, international conferences on human rights and the like. I have to look back for a moment on rhetorical questions by Mr Majhenič's Member of Parliament, why the Ombudsman has not come forward in the cases he has mentioned, and I will not repeat them. Knowing the Law on the Keeper of Human Rights would solve a number of questions and a dilemma as to why I did not act as a guardian or did not respond. Of course, the choice of those in whom I advertise without direct initiatives is mainly related to those groups of people where their rights are being violated and they themselves have no opportunity to stand up for themselves or these options are significantly reduced. It seems important to me that Members also observe people's hardships themselves and point out injustice in various areas, such as the debate by Mr Andrej Magajne. This is the hope that the social state's recommendations will yet be more rapidly implemented. It also seems important to me, as the Ambassador of Magi warned. They believe that we are particularly careful to discuss cases and opinions that are at first sight different from what we would expect from the subject. I would also like to thank our Members for their vivid comments on individual chapters. I'm sure there'll be an increased interest in reading. Otherwise, just a little commercial. For the first time in statistics this year, we show the rationale of initiatives by area, on page 371, you will also find some inspiration for future activities. From the annual report and the findings on out-of-seas operations that individuals have a number of comments against local authorities and that they are limping over the work of local self-government, we are also drawing up an additional opinion from these findings, which will be reflected in the 2010 report. We will certainly be paying attention to this part of the public sector, namely local self-government, this year too. We will also follow up on the implementation of the recommendations on housing legislation and add new findings. Furthermore, the next conference we are preparing for 2011 will, like this year's environment, deal with the rights of the dying and their loved ones. We have found that this is an area in which there is a lot of open, even outstanding issues, and in particular we would like to extend by such a conference the knowledge and awareness that even the last period of life can be done in a sustainable and dignified manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Madam Guardian of Human Rights. We have concluded the general debate on the Ombudsman's report. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a recommendation. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided on Tuesday 26 October 2010 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Ombudsman for their cooperation. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item — First draft of the Motor Vehicle Code under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the Group of 13 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Sam Bevk, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to Minister Patrick Vlačič for further explanation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the end of last year, we made an important decision and announced systemic security measures, the establishment of a public transport safety agency and new legislation. We both prepared, and on September 1st, a new security agency was launched. Before you, ambassadors and Members, there is new legislation. Modernization of the law, as we knew it from the time of Franz Joseph, was necessary. Today, simple development is so intense that all of these areas regulated by the Road Safety Act cannot be regulated by one law alone, as there are virtually no more complex experts. We are now proposing specific rules governing drivers, especially vehicles, roads, especially traffic rules. Let me tell you that we have prepared the laws thoroughly, with great effort, in a broad public debate and today we have two in the presentation. We begin with the Proposal for a Law on Motor Vehicles, which means the first roof law in the field of motor vehicles in our country. This will be a general law that will provide a legal basis for more detailed legal regulation of all technical requirements for road vehicles as well as for tractors, for the management of agricultural and forestry works. The law will fully regulate the conditions for placing motor vehicles and trailers on the market, the conditions for registration and participation in road transport or in tractors for the performance of agricultural or forestry works and the management of vehicle databases. It will also regulate the conditions for placing on the market parts of vehicles and protective devices for drivers and passengers. This law and regulations issued on its basis will regulate all technical requirements for road vehicles, as well as all conformity assessment procedures for vehicles, and the conditions to be met by legal persons and entrepreneurs who participate in these procedures on the basis of their powers. The law is written in such a way that it contains essential provisions, while in particular technical details will be regulated in sub-legislative acts in order to make them easier to adapt to technical innovations. The following are among the innovations that represent a more friendly solution for citizens: a simpler procedure for less demanding vehicle processing, such as the installation of an approved exhaust system or something like that, re-initiates the mandatory cancellation of a vehicle in any change in the ownership of a registered vehicle; the old vehicle owner is thus able to resolve the uncertainties associated with the behaviour of the new owner. The new law also removes certain administrative obstacles, removes the certification of the signature of natural persons in the transfer of the ownership of the vehicle, instead introduces only a determination of the identity of the natural persons and thereby eliminates the costs of verification, which does not reduce the legal certainty of the previous owner of the vehicle, and enables the continuous traceability of vehicle owners. Under certain conditions, driving of vehicles with foreign test or temporary plates in Slovenia is allowed, so if a vehicle is imported at the border, it will not be necessary to replace foreign test plates with Slovenian plates. Other important developments include: the law introduces a new requirement for individual approval of a vehicle on a technical service before re-entry into the market for those vehicles where the undercarriage has been more severely damaged, which certainly affects traffic safety, the introduction of controls on tractors for the execution of agricultural and forestry parts also outside road transport, the new law restores the age limit for old agers from 25 to 30 years, in line with the recommendations of the international organisation of old vehicles, and provides for special registration plates, the law aligns the conditions for carrying out technical checks on all freight vehicles, so that light cargo vehicles will also have to carry out a technical examination after one year of registration, then every year. The law also introduces a new obligation for vehicle manufacturers to provide access to vehicle repair and maintenance information for all interested operators. Administrative units are also designated under this law for the performance of certain vehicle cancellation tasks. The role of the Transport Inspectorate, which assumes the functions of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, and the tasks performed by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, is also increased. Traffic inspection also starts using mobile units to control vehicles on the road. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u84	Nice hello to you all! Indeed, the new motor vehicle law brings a variety of novelty, and it brings encouraging news. It was about time that something had changed and repaired, but I think some other matter could have been done better. Therefore, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association for Transport, has sent one of the amendments proposed. I think it would make sense for the Government to put in place the solutions proposed in the amendments by the Chamber of Commerce, because I think they make sense. When certain specific trailers are spoken and deleted in the first paragraph of Article 50 and they are used in the explanatory statement, which are these trailers, it is necessary to know that these trailers also include vehicles for the carriage of aircraft, especially sailplanes, which are not mentioned here, but also for these vehicles, without the possibility of technical failures, vehicles are prepared. It is also a matter of comparing certain categories of drivers C, D, E and B, because in certain cases it is a stricter criterion for categories C, D and E than for normal category B drivers who can also drive in general, I would say, traffic and also transport passengers. In technical inspections of light and residential trailers, I think, and in our group we support this proposal from the Economic Chamber, that it is too long for these trailers to be inspected every four years. I think it would make sense to shorten this to two years and compare it to normal vehicles. In order not to go too deep, for all these things are written in a letter, I would like to address a few more general matters. Recently, it has been noted that there are more and more bad trucks on Slovenian roads from the eastern countries, those not yet in the European Union, as well as from certain countries in the European Union, such as Slovak, Polish and Romanian registrations. These vehicles are not actually being checked, I don't know why. The reason is probably a language misunderstanding, or perhaps a fear that something will happen to someone if they control it. However, many times in these trucks, the technical surface in these vehicles is quite weak. It may also make sense to consider the equipment, the mandatory equipment of the vehicle, where the soybeans always light bulbs, when we know that the lamps in the passenger cars cannot be replaced – you can have the whole box at home, but you have to go to the service to replace them. But they're staying inside like a relic of the old days when we were driving around with figs and slabs. It would also be interesting and wise to prepare something in the area of speeding up trucks. Anyone who drives a lot of Slovenian highways will see that trucks run over each other when one drives 90 kilometers an hour, one drives 92 kilometers an hour, and they make terrible backdrops and thus cause a lot of traffic accidents. Italy has this arranged in a way that is strictly prohibited and adheres to it. We have a lot of chaos in this area, which could also be eliminated by the Ministry of Transport. When it comes to the mandate of a professional organisation, in that part that talks about the identification and assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle, we are back in the presence of foreigners in active traffic. Here we should have some mobile controls that would carry out these matters in this way, for example, in Germany, Austria, Italy, France, when the one who is driving by an inactive car on a certain country's road system is stopped, removed from traffic and, in the extreme case, sealed by a vehicle which must not leave that city, but can, of course, be dragged away or taken away by helicopter, I do not know how. Perhaps it would make sense in one of these matters to let go of the question of how to deal with cars legally purchased through legal institutions, with papers, and then it was found that cars were stolen somewhere. This is about the damage that is transferred to the car owner, which is questionable, because given some answers to the questions sent to some ministries, this should not be the case, since once some family members have been found that an predecessor has illegally alienated the matter, even though it was state property, it is said, after interpretations by some ministries, no one can ask back, nor can the state. How, then, is it about these cars when the person who has paid both the purchase and the tax is simply taken away from the vehicle? It is true that in order to fully regulate these matters, this area of vehicles will have to be adopted by a number of sub-legislative regulations, which I hope will be such as to comply with the law. Many times, however, we do not know what act to be followed, either by a law governed by law or by a law in which there is a sense of non-compliance. Otherwise, I must say that we are pleasantly surprised in the Slovenian National Party; the law is well done. I hope that the mistakes will be rectified and that he will go to another treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Honourable Fellow Members! Road transport, along with other transport subsystems, is the lifeblood of our civilization. Despite its major environmental and other negative impacts, road transport is the most important transport subsystem. In addition to the negative environmental impact, road transport has another or even more significant negative impact on our society, namely traffic accidents that carry on human lives and cause enormous financial and economic damage. Therefore, ensuring greater transport safety must be a permanent task for all transport policy holders. The government has therefore decided, and in accordance with the national road safety programme in force for the period 2007-2011, to reform the transport security sector organisationally and legally, which we support in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. With this year's 1st September, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety has already started to operate, at least formally completing organizational reform, and today, with the proposed Motor Vehicle Act, we are launching the final phase of the substantive renewal of the transport security sector, which will be regulated by four laws. The law in force on road safety is in some ways divided into four separate laws. The Motor Vehicle Act, of course, is not the most important among the four laws mentioned, although it will be the first roof law in the field of motor vehicles in Slovenia. Although motor vehicles are a road safety factor, they are no longer a major factor in traffic accidents in recent times due to their technological developments. In addition, some of the solutions contained in the draft law, which was drawn up in cooperation with experts from the Netherlands in 2007, have already been used in certain sub-legislations and have also been included in the last amendment to the Road Safety Act. It would therefore be more logical for the debate on this legislative package to begin with a proposal for a driver law or, for example, a proposal for a road transport law. However, for the first time in one place, the law fully regulates the conditions for placing motor vehicles on the market, their registration and their participation in road transport or the management of agricultural or forestry works and the management of vehicle databases. Due to the faster technological development of motor vehicles, details, in particular technical ones, will not be prescribed in the law, but are expected in the twenty-sub-legislative acts. All these regulations will regulate all technical requirements for road vehicles, as well as all conformity assessment procedures for vehicles and the conditions to be met by legal persons and entrepreneurs who participate in these procedures on the basis of their powers. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it seems important that the law of competence for motor vehicles is brought together in the Ministry of Transport, so that the area of handling of end-of-life vehicles remains under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. All operational tasks will be carried out by the already mentioned Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which began its operation on 1 September this year. We also stress from the news the greater role of road inspection in the field of vehicle market, vehicle registration, technical inspections and traffic vehicles, which will be carried out using mobile road control units. In our country, we have as many as 130,000 tractors, of which only 90,000 are registered. Therefore, in the liberal democracy of Slovenia we particularly welcome the introduction of control of tractors also outside public roads, as unfortunately, there are still about 20 tractor drivers fatally affected each year. We are asked whether agricultural inspectors, as well as labour inspectors, are qualified for such supervision. In order to ensure greater legal certainty and to ensure continuous monitoring of the ownership of the vehicle, we support the reintroduction of the mandatory registration of the vehicle in any change in the ownership of the vehicle. Greater road safety will also be affected by a solution whereby light goods vehicles will have to have their first technical inspection after one year of registration and then every year, that is to say, the same as other trucks. It is precisely the drivers of light trucks that are the category of drivers who in everyday traffic practice often cause a number of dangerous situations by their behaviour. Finally, we should support the provision imposing an obligation on vehicle manufacturers to provide vehicle repair and maintenance information to all interested operators, which, in our opinion, will strengthen competition on the service market. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the whole project of changing transport legislation, so we will vote in favour of the conclusion that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u88	Respected and respected! Social Democrats welcome the launch of the reform of transport legislation for more security and more road transport responsibilities. The proposal for a motor vehicle law is the first roof law in the field of motor vehicles in our country. The law provides a legal basis for more detailed regulation of all technical requirements for road vehicles, as well as for tractors in the performance of agricultural and forestry works. The law fully lays down the conditions for the placing on the market of motor vehicles and trailers, their registration and their participation in road transport or the performance of agricultural and forestry works and the management of all necessary vehicle databases. The law takes into account the centralisation of competences for the systematic management of vehicle-related issues at the Ministry of Transport. The powers to carry out operational tasks in the field of vehicle conformity assessment, registration and technical checks have already been transferred to the Public Transport Safety Agency, with the latest amendment of the Road Safety Act, and the powers of inspection to the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. This inspectorate is also subject to the powers of inspection in the field of conformity assessment of vehicles, which has so far been carried out by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. More important developments in specific areas include the re-introduction of the mandatory registration of a vehicle in any change in the ownership of a registered vehicle, the suspension of the authorisation of signatures of natural persons while changing the ownership of a vehicle, light cargo vehicles having the first technical inspection after one year of registration and then each year, the law introduces a new requirement for individual approval of a vehicle on a technical service prior to re-inclusion for those vehicles on which the undercarriage has been more severely damaged, the control of tractors for the execution of agricultural and forestry works and also outside road transport, the age limit for older persons returning to 30 years and the introduction of special registration plates for them and the like. The Social Democrats' Group supports the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The proposal for a Motor Vehicle Act is a new roof law that combines all activities relating to motor vehicles and provides a legal basis for all necessary regulations. The proposed law covers the arrangements for the entire life cycle of a motor vehicle from its approval, the issuance of documents and the registration, the periodic review of the technical condition of the vehicle until its de-registration. One of the important objectives pursued by experts from different fields is to ensure higher vehicle safety standards in the Republic of Slovenia, and what is very important is their environmental impact. The content of the Act lays down the conditions for placing motor vehicles and trailers on the market, their registration and their intended use. The draft law is partially transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by European Directive 209 40/EC, which deals with technical inspections of motor vehicles and trailers and Directive 207 46/EC, which speaks of the establishment of a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and trailers and systems. This is a demanding technical law which, according to the applicant's forecast, would enter into force on 1 April 2011, we hope that it will, but would apply from 1 July 2011. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we agree with most of the content of the bill, which began at the time of another government. However, we are disturbed by some of the provisions of individual articles that set out too high fines, which are 2,000, 4,000 and in some cases 5,000 euros. We will therefore vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group against the conclusion that the draft law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the main objectives set out in the Proposal for a Motor Vehicle Law in order to address all technical matters and the necessary procedures for vehicles in a central and more comprehensive manner in order to ensure higher vehicle safety standards and environmental impact, and in particular to reduce and rationalise procedures according to the principle of user-friendly administration. In the field of vehicles, Slovenia is also obliged to follow the renewed acquis of the European Union. The safety of vehicles, the conditions for placing on the market and road safety have, however, been consistent with EU legislation in the past and well regulated and these improvements are needed. We also feel positive about the re-introduction of the mandatory cancellation of a vehicle in any change in the ownership of a registered vehicle, as this will immediately relieve the old vehicle owner of the liability associated with the customer's behaviour, since many have not regulated the change of ownership. The question is, however, whether the timing of the economic crisis and the financial crisis is the right time to regulate such legislation. The question is whether the new system will really improve for taxpayers, or whether the adoption of a new set of legislation will entail additional burdens for vehicle users. The basis for this project, i.e. for a package of road safety, driver and vehicle legislation, has practically started to emerge in another period, I think that in 2004, when the Ministry decided on the basis of the twinning project to determine how to improve such legislation. While some of the provisions in the law are insufficiently defined and reasoned and often seem to have only been transposed in half from EU rules and the section's opinion in the coordination and preparation of the bill has been lost in many of the provisions on the way to the final text sent to the National Assembly. It is necessary to re-examine whether it is prudent and truly safe to withdraw, for example, the signature of the owner in the sale of the vehicle prior to the conclusion of the contract. In our view, in this and in such cases legal certainty must be given priority over the so-called simplification of procedures. We also propose a thorough examination of the Economic Chamber's comments. In our opinion, the desire for simplification has gone too far and has therefore given too much power to the Ministry in the law. The provisions, as set out in Article 11 or Article 27 and Article 47, should be fixed in law and only be left to the ministries, since companies, companies, farmers requiring stable conditions to plan their work cannot re-coordinate vehicles with regulations every year and need long-term guidance as defined by law, not only with sub-legislative acts. The regulation of databases referred to in Article 62 should also be more specifically defined, as it is unacceptable that the Ministry, in accordance with Article 65 itself and the Agency, by means of a sub-legislative act, will prescribe the collection, management and processing of a number of records and databases, as is now proposed in its mandate in Article 65, since these are sensitive records and also personal data. Members of the Slovenian People's Party expect that the profession will be able to cooperate, that comments will be taken into account and that the law will be duly supplemented in further consideration. In line with this expectation, we will support the law in the first reading by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Is there anyone else on this list? Mr. Zerjav, he's giving up. Mr. Marinic, he's giving up. Mr. Secretary, is there anything you'd like to say? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u94	Before Mr Jelinčič mentions overcoming vehicles, we will be able to talk about this, but within the framework of each other's laws. Other things we will also consider if there is anything else that could be the subject of improvement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got their word on it. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. That's what I have to ask. I can't see any hands, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 26 October in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's time frame. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a driver's license. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Bevk, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Dr. Vlačič, Minister of Transport, for an introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, honourable Members! The marriage package combines alcoholic, penal, preventive and educational policies, as it becomes clear that only repressive measures cannot produce satisfactory results. In the package of four laws that we deal with this time, we are the first in the early years, the proposal of the Drivers Act focuses mainly on the training and training of road users, candidates and drivers, with a focus on interrelationships between road users, awareness of the risks involved in traffic and the dangers of traffic situations, then socialisation of traffic offenders, where the system will be regulated by encouraging returnees to make positive changes in their attitudes to traffic safety and culture and standardisation in the field of control health checks and preventive checks with advice to the personal physician for drivers who have been driving under the influence of alcohol. The bill provides a number of provisions that are favourable to citizens. The theoretical training in motor schools, driving schools, decreases from the current 40 hours to 20 hours. The aim is to ensure the quality and not the quality of training. Therefore, educational criteria for driving teachers are being raised accordingly. The conditions for training for the driver following the accompanying driving programme have been reduced. This system has already been working for us and has shown positive results, but few candidates opt for such training, so some conditions for participation in this programme have to be reduced, the reduction of the age of the candidate to 16 years, the reduction of the age of the companion to 27 years, the possibility of accompanying others and not only the immediate relatives being able to train the elderly. Simplification of additional training for the driver of the beginner, driving of excellence shall be carried out within the framework of the safe driving education and training programme, the possibility of erasure of the penalty points, once every three years four penalty points, and for persons participating in the safe driving training programme or one of the rehabilitation programmes. The new law also removes some administrative obstacles. There is a theoretical and practical test in driving school, what we know under the popular name of the social exam. Staff and material conditions for the establishment of motor schools, driving schools are being reduced. Five of the most important innovations for greater road safety: road safety education in cooperation with public education institutions is carried out by preventive organisations and civil society. We introduce a health review through counselling for first-time drivers of driving offences under the influence of lower alcohol concentrations, a smaller number of organisations to implement different programmes, increasing the quality of training, specific programmes and professional supervision of the newly established public transport safety agency. The conditions for the re-entry of a driver’s licence in the event of a sanctions imposed on the termination of the driving licence are amended: participation in a specific health check, participation in one of the rehabilitation programmes or re-examination of the driving licence. Educational criteria for driving teachers, traffic education teachers and additional training providers for beginners and drivers are increasing. The rehabilitation programmes in the proposed form are a novelty in our space. The holders of a valid driving licence, which have been issued with penalty points and which have been referred to the programme by the court in the event of the suspension of the expiry of the driving licence, shall participate in one of the following rehabilitation programmes. These may be educational workshops intended for persons who have been found not to belong to those who are at risk and who are drinking harmfully and who have been driving under the influence of alcohol for a single event, psychosocial workshops intended for persons who are found to be at risk and harmful to drink in the control examination, treatment programmes are carried out through standardized treatment programmes of addiction and are intended for persons who are found to be dependent on alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive drugs or other psychoactive substances in the control examination; and, as a last case, an additional training programme for safe driving intended for persons who have committed offences against them, and these offences are not related to driving under the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs, psychoactive substances or other psychoactive substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with Fellow, Honourable Fellow Member and Fellow Members! The most important road safety factor is the driver. Unfortunately, drivers in Slovenia contribute to the lion's share that our transport safety and transport culture are still very far from the transport situation of the most safe and regulated Member States of the European Union. Therefore, in amending the entire transport safety system, which is reflected in four new laws in this area, particular attention should be paid to legal solutions in the field of rules and conditions for the participation of road users, in particular the rules and conditions for the training of applicants for motor vehicles drivers. In the proposed driver law, we welcome the inclusion of public education institutions in road safety education processes carried out by civil society and organisations involved in preventive road safety activities. It is correct and only logical for law-makers to assume that increasing road safety and thus reducing the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences must be achieved primarily through measures already initiated in the education and training of children and young people, i.e. the youngest and most vulnerable road users, while at the same time the most vulnerable or most receptive road users, and later in the training of young drivers who will be independently involved in road transport after obtaining a driving licence. The solution represents a step forward and in some ways places a wide range of public education institutions, in particular in the area of pre-school education and primary education, civil society and organisations involved in preventive activities in this area. Transport cooperation requires lifelong education and training for all participants in transport, of course, if we want to ensure better transport safety and to radically reduce the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences in Slovenia. On the inside, however, the most important thing is constant and, above all, sufficient early proper transport training for children and adolescents. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we call for another professional consideration of the idea that education and education for safe road transport should also be provided in pre-school education programmes and in particular in primary and secondary education programmes. We are convinced that another expert debate on this issue is worth holding, as such a solution also stresses the adoption or existing national road safety programme. Another important solution, which according to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the proposal for marriage, is a new and innovative approach for Slovenia, while in other European countries the approach to solving the problem of speed and alcohol in road transport is already widely known and successful. It is a matter of introducing rehabilitation programmes.The programme will be sent to the driver by the court in case of suspension of the execution of a foreign penalty for the termination of the driving licence. It is therefore also necessary to amend the Law on Offences. Drivers who have been sentenced to driving under the influence of alcohol or, for example, under the influence of illicit drugs will attend one of the following rehabilitation programmes in case of the suspension of a foreign sanction for the termination of driving licences: educational workshops of at least 6 pedagogical hours, psychosocial workshops of at least 17 pedagogical hours or treatment programmes of standardised treatment of addiction. It is worth mentioning that the costs of the rehabilitation programme will, of course, be borne by the posted driver. An interesting, stimulating and at the same time pedagogical institute is the deletion of 4 penalty points. All drivers who reach or exceed 4, rather than 17 criminal points, will be eligible for those immunisations and will participate in a safe-driving education and training programme covering road safety and psychosocial relations between road users. After the successful completion of the seminar, the driver, as I have already mentioned, will be deleted once in two years from the record of the 4 penalty points. Of the novelty in the law, two more should be mentioned, referring mainly to young people or younger generations. The so-called social examination shall be abolished as it has in practice not produced the desired effects and the removal will reduce the costs of the driving licence. Another novelty is the reduction of certain conditions for participation in the accompanying driving programme, which should make it more interesting and accessible. In Slovenia, only about half a percent of all candidates opt for this option, and in other European Union countries this percentage is between 20 and 40 percent. Encouragement, training under the accompanying driving programme is still meaningful, as in Sweden research has shown that this group has 40 percent of the risk after the driving test. The bill brings some other innovations, some of which are conditional on the transposition of certain directives into the Slovenian legal order. Above all, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it seems important to us that by this law the country also offers its hand to the worse violators of road traffic regulations. By means of legal solutions, it also further introduces greater personal responsibility for individuals rather than regulatory responsibility, which has proved to be relatively ineffective, and offers the possibility of progressive and lifelong training and education for transport safety by the end of the driver’s or driver’s driving age. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the Proposal for a Drivers Act, and we call for another professional debate on the solution to ensure that education and education for safe participation in road transport are formally provided in pre-school education programmes as well as in primary and secondary education programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u100	Respected and respected! Social Democrats support the proposal for a driver law. We believe that it represents a step forward in the quality of regulation of transport legislation, transport regulation and, above all, transport safety. From a conceptual point of view, the law governing the entire field of drivers points to the fact that it is on them, on us, that drivers have the greatest responsibility for regulated and, above all, safe road transport. In particular, we support the inclusion of public educational institutions in the process of carrying out transport education by carrying out preventive road transport activities, as it is with the care of road safety that it is necessary to fall into every awareness of the individual who is responsible for the safety of himself and other people when driving. Nevertheless, the proposal for a driver law will probably need to be improved in the second reading, and we are counting on it, and we are also looking forward to this process by the Social Democrats. It will make sense to examine the proposed increase in the educational level of driving teachers on the basis of the fact that an increase in the educational level of examination committees is not proposed, as well as to ensure that this law also encourages people's behaviour to consider moving from car to alternative modes of transport, such as bicycles. And that is why it is so much more important to pay particular attention and care for weaker road users, especially cyclists and pedestrians. All this is why we support the proposal for a driver law by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The proposal for a driver law is one of four laws that will replace the Road Traffic Safety Act. The driver law also includes: the Public Road Act, the Road Traffic Rules Act and the Motor Vehicle Act. The Ministry of Transport and Home Affairs has adopted a strategy to revise legislation in this area. We must not forget, however, that it is this government among the other agencies that has also set up the Public Transport Safety Agency, which we have opposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. The largest grey fox of the bill is shown in disregard of the content of the resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2007-2011. The proposal did not take into account the basic communication of the said resolution, which sets out in its objectives that by means of education and education and preventive and repressive measures, poor transport behaviour must be changed. Transport education should be included in educational content in primary and secondary schools and it would be appropriate for transport learning to start in kindergartens. The content of the Proposal for a Drivers Act gives rise to an exaggerated emphasis on the tasks carried out by the Public Agency for Transport Safety in terms of administrative work. In Chapter 6, Training candidates for motor vehicle drivers, these content literally makes it possible to integrate the available infrastructure and personnel that are overtaken by primary and secondary schools. This raises the question of why the Ministry of Education, Sport and Youth had not been involved in the drafting of the content of the law, which, as the resolution suggests, should be done. The law also provides for the establishment of a Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Training at local level. Nothing new could be said, but it is not right that funds for financing tasks, the functioning of the worlds are imposed on municipalities that already do not have financial coverage for many other legal obligations. This is further reason why we will not support the draft law in the parliamentary group, so we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary, your honors are here! Unfortunately, the proposal for a law by members of the Slovenian People's Party was rejected this year in June, proposing to tighten the penalty for driving in the opposite direction along the highway and thus to prevent any unnecessary victims of such unwise accidents from adopting these new system laws. On the contrary, the Government has rushed into the process of establishing a new public agency and has not waited for new legislation. In the spring of this year, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, when amendments to the Transport Safety Act, which was adopted primarily for the purpose of setting up this Agency, stressed some expectations, but did not notice that they would be taken into account at least in this new legislation. The explanation of the bill stated that the Government had decided to set up an agency on the basis of a pre-study on possible forms of organisation in the field of road safety in Slovenia and that the expert opinion would show that the most appropriate form of public agency was that it was the most independent and therefore more effective. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we still believe that the pre-study on which the Ministry is to establish a public agency as the best option should be seen by Members before the adoption of the law. We have not been convinced by the argument of independence, a more important and effective body with the appropriate powers and the necessary means of action, only studies and advice do not save lives. It is precisely because of more effective action in transport that we note that the law should define more clearly the cooperation of state authorities and local communities, define more clearly the role of municipalities in the world of the Agency, the role of municipalities in establishing prevention councils and their composition. There is a lack of definition of societies operating in the field of prevention and a lack of standards, which can lead to uncoordinated work and fragmentation. Our doubts are confirmed in the opinion of the community which points out that the final text of the articles does not correspond to the harmonised arrangements at the time of the drafting of the law. The aim of the driver law is, according to the Minister, to increase road safety and thus reduce the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we rightly expect that the law will be clear and effective and that the provisions will be supplemented in this direction. The measures must start as soon as possible in the training of young drivers who will be self-employed after obtaining a driving licence. The bill therefore provides a starting point for regulating the area of education and education for safe participation in road transport, but these provisions need to be supplemented in the sense that preventive education should start in the pre-school period, since we all know the saying: What Janez learns is what John knows. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have always supported those legislative solutions that reduce administrative obstacles and eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic procedures, and we therefore support the follow-up to the objective of the European Union Directive and to simplify administrative procedures to a greater extent, remove barriers to service activities mainly in terms of free movement of services, training of drivers and education candidates, which is certainly well heard. What does this mean for Slovenia and for safety in transport will show time. In explaining the law, there are also over sixty consequences of the adoption of the law, which are not justified and justified, which we find unusual in relation to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in view of the importance of the law, which will affect all drivers, organisations and society in the field of transport safety, training of drivers and so on. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not oppose the law in the first reading, but in the second reading we expect appropriate corrections and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u106	Havela beautiful. Well, that's the second law I can say he's pleasantly surprised us. But of course there is something to be said about matters. Surely a variety of solutions are good, but some things could be further exacerbated. For example, why not take the car in the wrong direction on the highway and ban a five - year test? At that time, however, we determined what socially beneficial works were to be done. After all, someone who drives in the opposite direction on the highway is much worse and much more dangerous than someone who exceeds the speed on the highway for 10 or 20 kilometers an hour. It's about the cars the drivers throw away. So let's say someone who, within three months of throwing away the car, not the one who doesn't register it anymore and keeps it, will once be an oldtimer or need it for spare parts or something like that, but to leave it, to throw it away and not remove it, I think we should arrange it to remove this car at the expense of the country, and at the same time pay fines at a certain amount, I don't know, 100, 200, 300 euros, which would also fill the state budget nicely. Drug-induced driving is also under-criminal. When someone gets to drive under the influence of drugs, they get punished, just as they're supposed to. Then, in the second ride, he is prohibited, as is in the case of the one who is driving in the wrong direction along the highway, driving and conducting the examination for five years, and in the third case, life imprisonment and driving ban follow. That's what we should do. It may also make sense to look a little bit more rigorously at health conditions, such as deafness or falling out, which may also be the result or cause of traffic accidents. As far as driving licences are concerned, it would make sense to make driving licences in the form we have identity cards, not on the chip's version, but on the laser version, where everything could be written in there about that driver, perhaps also his medical examinations, the state of the spirit and so on. The matter would be greatly simplified if the readers were to have cops with them and the matter would be done very quickly and very clearly. And there's another thing. I think it would make sense that transport education is reintroduced into primary school, that children are already told how and what, not only at what kind of visit to the police who come to school to tell what is going on, usually at the beginning of the school year, but usually only in the first grade, but to place it in both the primary and secondary education systems. In this way, it should not be costly to hang all of this together in various municipalities, which already do not have money. And if we put this education in schools, in the school system, we wouldn't impose additional financial obligations on the municipalities. Once again, with a heavy heart, Mr. Secretary, but marriage is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I'll only call those of you on the list and you're here at the same time. Mr. Göncz, would you like to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm going to be very brief, and I'm just going to say hi to this package of laws. I think it is a good decision to approach differentiation because it is acceptable to have an argument that can actually be found that there are no experts today who can handle such specific and extremely important areas as are presented in the four laws here. As far as the national approach is concerned, we have one general comment or one proposal, and we are also prepared to cooperate. We believe that in the prevention and training of road transport in the task of a public agency, as regards education, in the training of candidates and in the education of candidates, it would be appropriate to refer one paragraph to national mixed areas, which is also a legal and constitutional obligation, if the law is already so differentiated. I think that, with one paragraph, there is no doubt in the Proposal for a Drivers Act, this area could be indicated and bilingual business required. This is simply a matter of.And similarly that I will not then advertise with another law, for example in signalling, the law on road traffic rules is also a general dictatorship and we are willing to participate in creating this. I think we will find a common language by the second reading, and this issue will be resolved. For the end, I would have only one more question, which indirectly concerns our area, but it could be anywhere in Slovenia. I ask whether article 63 of the Act, which speaks of the recognition of driving examinations carried out abroad, also refers to cases such as those in our border area, where a citizen living in the Republic of Slovenia has, for some reason, passed, for example, Hungary or Italy or Austria, or whether those provisions are taken into account, which are otherwise recorded in Article 63 of this Act. I don't need an answer now, but I ask you to reconsider, and from this point of view, if there is a gap, this 63rd paragraph should also be supplemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Marian Bezjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Minister, with a colleague, fellow Member and Member of Parliament! With regard to the proposal of the Drivers Act, I think the beginning is very good to go in the right direction, but I would nevertheless have some suggestions, some comments which would probably come in the second reading then come in handy and this law would be further upgraded and upgraded. It is very wise, as has been said, to actually reduce the number of hours from 40 to 20 to work on the quality of education rather than on quantity. That must be the first condition we need to be aware of. This is a very correct and good decision on the part of the proposers. However, I would like to say that it is actually an incorrect reduction of the penalty points, because we have an opportunity to reduce the penalty points within three years when you exceed, destroy or delete 4 penalty points. But in this part it is very right that they are actually compulsory lectures, but in this part of doing practical work is not sufficiently taken care of to perform, because they are not regulated polygons, but things are happening so that one co-worker with a fuel pipe on the road and the driver has to brake and drive between the cones, which is by no means tasteful and is not appropriate to perform such examination or assembly of these points. they are suitable or should be necessarily designed to carry out such things. I also don't think it makes sense that the same punishment is on the highways. On the highways, it's the same point for speeding. This is almost nowhere in Europe. Even if the vehicle is driven at night only, I don't know, at one o'clock in the morning, nowhere, 170, 180, is the same punishment with 4 criminal points or 3 criminal points or 6 criminal points as if it were driving in a settlement. This, I think, is inappropriate and that in this part the law should be changed, as this certainly does not endanger anyone on the road. It would be appropriate to adapt to European legislation here, because they do not know such rigour on European highways. It is also important that those drivers who do this and lower these points are, in fact, the same treated drivers who drive too fast in cities as those on highways. The penalties in Slovenia are very high, and we have very poor conditions for this. We ourselves know that we have very large depths of depth when dealing with ADR offences, but we do not even have parking spaces or stopping places in Slovenia. Then there is no original sin of punishment if it is not possible for the driver to stop or park the vehicles. I would also like to point out that it would be very wise to include the road transport law in the education system in primary schools, not only for those who perform bicycle and bicycle examinations with an auxiliary engine, but in order to actually be a mandatory hour of education in the field of road transport law, in general on the whole of road transport. This would certainly be appropriate to harmonise with the Ministry of Education, reach some consensus and reach the same positions. Otherwise, I think the thing presented is on the right track. With some corrections, it would be appropriate to support this law and put it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Jerič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. I have already said in the position of the Group of Members that we will support the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration. What I would like to say in the introduction to the debate is that it would be good for all four laws to be debated today, because we are moving a little from one law to another in the views of the groups of Members and also in the debates of Members, as well as those laws that we will be considering on Tuesday. More importantly, the whole package is in this session, and I hope that we will accept it as soon as possible. I would not agree with the views of fellow Members who spoke about the Council for Raising and Road Safety, which is a huge cost for local communities. On the contrary, I think that road safety is not only a concern of the state and the local community, but of all those we need to ensure through various activities that traffic security in our country is better than it has been before. And I think it is the duty of the local community not only to ensure that the councils have good working conditions for prevention and training in road transport, it is also said, adequate financial resources in the municipal budgets they accept, but also to adopt an appropriate composition of these municipal councils. At least in those congregations I know, I think it's already well arranged. In the worlds, we have organisations that are professionally involved in this area, representatives of public institutions, from pre-school education, primary education, police stations, experts within the municipal administration, as well as representatives of local communities and other actors involved in road safety. And every year in the municipal council, we adopt a work programme as well as a report. Thus, the municipal councilors are also familiar with the problems in this area, and it is also easier to take action to ensure better transport security and to provide adequate financial resources. Therefore, I do not think that this can be a cost that is not only worth the attention of the local community, the mayor, the municipal council or all local community bodies. However, what I would like to point out in conclusion is that we believe that a second expert debate should be held on what content belongs to both pre-school education and primary school. I am aware that this is a very sensitive area. We propose that, through the discussions below, a professional debate be held to see what forms and content could be achieved through the various learning processes and how they could be introduced into preschool education, both in primary school and in secondary school, of course. In our view, this area is extremely important and requires some special attention. While it should also be pointed out that the activity of the Road Safety and Education Council, if implemented as it should, gives many of these content to both pre-school children and primary school children. Here are many actions we are carrying out, from Pasovček, which alerts participants to the usefulness of using the safety belt, from cycling exams, from quiz shows, competitions and so on. I think there's a lot going on today, but there's probably more to be done. I hope that this package of four laws will be adopted as soon as possible and thus improve traffic security. The measures are different forces and range from one area to another. I think that this is a very important area to reduce the number of accidents and, above all, the consequences arising from the worst traffic accidents, that is to say, human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to the replacement of transport licences in principle, at least with regard to the countries of the European Union, there should be no major problems at all. If such a thing were to be seen, then we would be able to resolve these problems, in principle it should not be. But as for the polygons, there's still work to be done here. It is true that this moment may not be enough polygons, but also the standards for polygons have been set too high and may need to be adjusted slightly to make it easier to set up the number of polygons that Slovenia needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-22-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you. Since the time for discussion is not yet up, does anyone else want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 26 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 10th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 21st meeting of the convention, which we will continue on Tuesday, 26. Ten. 2010 at 9 p.m.
