ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Renata Brunskole, Franc Jurša, Rado Likar, Matjaž Zanoškar, Alojz Potočnik. Mrs. Renata Brunskole by 12 o'clock. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - First of all, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the Human Body for the Purpose of Health, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Andrejo Richter, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Lidija Jerkič. Here you go, please. I'm sorry, I said I had to apologize for saying the National Assembly. It's the right state council, there's been a mistake, and it says here in the National Assembly. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u2	Maybe it's farsighted. Respectable. Nice greetings to all present. You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment, as prepared by the State Council. The proposed Law was intended to legislate the donor’s consent system in a transparent manner in the event of the removal of parts of the human body after death. A transparent and simple way of determining the will of the donor is expected to have a positive impact on the number of human body withdrawals carried out and on the greater survival of patients in need. The gap between the demand and the supply of human transplants is increasing all over the world. More and more in Slovenia. The needs of the available authorities are also higher because these parts of medicine in Slovenia have developed significantly recently. Very good results have been achieved. The activity of transplanting parts of the human body is linked to a number of factors that need to be coordinated as much as pain is a developed activity, more patients are hoping to be treated like this and are therefore increasingly included in the waiting list. Today there are 150 patients on her in Slovenia. According to law and ethnic principles, it is necessary to provide for waiting ones and to use all possible methods to improve transplant programmes. In the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, we have detected the problem through our close functional link to the health sector. In cooperation with all stakeholders in this area and with the professional services of the Council of State, State Council Council Council took care to develop a legal proposal which has received a high level of support in the professional public, organ transplant organisations, ethical commissions, as well as by the departmental ministry. The broad public debate has shown that there is a high degree of restraint to one important solution to this law, which is to the Institute of Alleged Consent. In order to bridge concerns about the law as a whole, in the State Council, together with other stakeholders, we have drafted texts of legal supplements that, instead of an institution of alleged consent, would only legalize a more friendly procedure of express consent. This would lead to a significant improvement in the legal regime without trying to apply to some individuals and associations a disputed institution of alleged consent at this stage. From our contacts with representatives of the ministry and other stakeholders, we have concluded that this will be acceptable to the Government and the Ministry of State by agreeing on the legal text. According to the information we have received, we conclude that the Government and the Ministry do not now support such a solution. While we regret this attitude, we can also understand that the new minister wants to take a time to study further the problems of transplanting parts of the human body and possible solutions. Of course, our knowledge and experience are available to him. Although the legislation has already provided for an alleged consent, it has not been implemented and has not been operational. With the current regime in place, the number of people who have been identified as willing to become donors is relatively small, less than 1% of the population. This is partly attributed to the fact that it is a definition of a donation to face a death of its own, and another reason is likely that the process of definition of a donation at a fast pace is an additional bureaucratic work that we avoid as much as possible. In preparing the law, we have informed important stakeholders with the purpose and content: the Red Cross of Slovenia, the State Ethics Commission, the Ethical Commission for transplantation at the Ministry of Health, the Republic Professional College for Transplantation, the President of the Health Council and patient associations. When preparing the draft amendments to the law under consideration, the Council of State did a great deal of work. We expect our proposals to be taken into account by the Government of the Republic and to be reintroduced into legislation in this area. However, we would like to point out once again that the pressing problem of lack of transplantation of the appropriate organs remains unresolved and the distress of many patients continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Dorian Marusic, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman. Honourable Members and Members. I'd like to read the government's position. In the debate, I will also be happy to respond to concerns and personal views and work plans in this area. In principle, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports changes in the current law on the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment, which would help to increase the number of donors of parts of the human body for treatment, but the proposed law on the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body somehow opposes for various reasons. I would like to list legal concerns and some general concerns. On legal grounds, we believe that the concept of an existing law that introduces the consent of both the recipient and the donor with regard to the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body is appropriate. In fact, the proposal for amendments and additions introduces a new category, the so-called supposed consent, into a fund with which we are all donors, to the extent that we do not explicitly oppose it. However, no organ removal may be carried out if there is or is supposed to be an objection by the deceased. It would be wrong for the same law in the provisions relating to the recipient to provide that a transplant may be carried out if the recipient so consents, but for the part relating to the removal of parts of the body of the deceased, the recipient does not expressly object. Maybe something about the personal rights of the deceased. The proposed amendments and additions interfere with the autonomy of an individual in his or her dignity and his or her irresistible right to have access to his or her own body from birth, which is why such interventions, which can be morally and ethically controversial, should be justified considerably in terms of the protection of human rights and freedoms. On the basis of the above, they might even wonder whether the arrangements are not contrary to the provisions of Article 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the inviolability of human integrity and personal rights. Third important argument. Article 181(4) of the Penal Code provides that a doctor who takes a part of the body for transplantation or transplants a part of the body without having previously obtained in the prescribed manner the consent of the donor and the recipient or their legal representatives shall be punished by imprisonment from three months to five years. This provision has not been defined by the Council of State. A few more general concerns. First time. We would miss an in-depth analysis of the situation why in Slovenia we have a gap between needs and the supply of organs, that is, whether something needs to be done on the public awareness system, on better organisation, on more important and active work in intensive units and on convincing motivation. This requires a broader public debate. This is also referred to in the second part; if the Government or the Ministry were a contractor, of course, there would be at least 30 days for public debate and at that time they could actually identify where the narrowest throats are and prepare a more comprehensive amendment to the law. Last but not least, I'm coming up with a third argument. The European Commission is preparing a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the standards, quality and safety of human organs for transplantation. It is very likely that this directive will be adopted during the presidency of Spain, and in fact, if the law is still under consideration today, it would be necessary to amend the existing law in order to amend the Directive, which is aimed primarily at quality and security. In short, if I do. The Government opposes the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for treatment submitted to the National Council, but also requires the Ministry of Health to prepare a new proposal for a law or amendment and to supplement the existing law on the seizure and transplantation of the human body for treatment, in particular in the light of the amendment of the European Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! We have before us a new law that deals with an extremely sensitive area. Many have probably already experienced pain in the face of a serious illness of their fellowman, so much more so as knowing that only transplantation of an organ can help a person. Unfortunately, however, the proper organs are never enough. This is especially true of those who have been waiting for years after a long illness, and unfortunately some transplants have not been forthcoming, for an appropriate body that has allowed them to live as normal and healthy as possible. And it is up to us to make it possible, in an appropriate way, for all those in need, to be accessible, especially the appropriate number of transplants of human body parts due to treatment. In the Group of Members, we do not really doubt the nobility of the objective and the good interests of the proposer, who is aware of the currently lacking legislation. The Act on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment was adopted by the National Assembly in 2000. Among other things, this lays down and regulates the conditions for the removal of parts of the human body for treatment both in the case of live and dead donors. The law in this part establishes a way of agreeing for individual categories of people, from adults, minors to persons with no business ability. In the field of national regulation organisation, Slovenia is among the most regulated countries, as it has used in its national organisation scheme a way to follow development, to respond effectively to change and to ensure quality, especially in the area of which many other countries are often subject to abuse, even profit, crime, etc. Here are things with us, we can say, truly positive and all praise those who care about them, because one abuse itself could lead to irreparable and lasting consequences. Regardless of appropriateness, it is unfortunately necessary to establish that the authorities are lacking. Despite the incentives and efforts of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation, Slovenia-transplant, professional workers working on this - those responsible for transplantation, it is also a tendency to notice this tendency in us, as medicine has progressed in this area and life is longer. Therefore, according to law and ethical principles, it is necessary to provide for waiting ones and to use all possible methods to improve transplant programmes. I'm talking about the need for kidney transplants, heart transplants, corneas and so on. But the fact is that in transplant medicine, where part of the human body is used as a medicine, each country mostly takes care of its own patients, in short, it itself provides the necessary organs. The proposer of an update of legislation that would lead to more donors sees a solution mainly in the way in which a donation is obtained for the time of life. According to them, the register of "against" offerings should be legalised, allowing the general public to define "against" and to follow different approaches, as the current legislation provides that the state collects definitions "for" donation, but that the collection system is complex and has proved to be in practice partially useless. According to the motioners, the alleged consent of the law is that a deceased individual is identified as a dead possible donor if no explicit opposition to the donation procedure has been made during his lifetime. The analyses presented and other studies submitted are intended to have a positive and significant impact on the level of organ donation in combination with other conditions. Indeed, when we first read the amendment to the proposed law in different thinking and different ways of providing organs, we have supported the Group because we are aware of the need to change the approach and seek new ways. Later, however, a number of concerns were expressed in public and the content was pointed out. A rather broad public debate has also developed spontaneously. She answered and reminded us of certain shortcomings in this issue also by the Ombudsman. The Government also points out in its position that the proposed amendment interferes with the autonomy of an individual as well as with his dignity and with the right to have access to his own body, so the proposed content in terms of the protection of human rights and freedoms may be morally and ethically controversial. In short, in such an important and sensitive area, there have been a number of doubts, many concerns and many dilemmas that could have resulted in more bad and more negative consequences at the end of the debate than the benefits that we believe the applicant had in mind as the only criterion for the proposed changes. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the current legislation in this area is too much, but above all that procedures are bureaucratic and therefore the public concerned are being rejected. More activity will be needed, positive approaches will be needed, more personal work, including personal conversations with each individual, so as to bring things closer to people who are mostly positive about the content. Since this is a medical area, we believe that this task could undoubtedly be taken over by personal doctors who, contrary to the current proposal, would register their patients as potential donors. In short, people want to remain active participants in consent. Therefore, we expect the Government to join the changes as soon as possible, as we do not want to lose any more lives due to inadequate legislation. In the Group of Members, we will indeed reject the content at this stage. In doing so, we would like to point out once again the importance and need for an affirmative change that would follow the real needs for the removal and transplantation of parts of the human body. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group, we will not support the proposal in the first reading of the bill, but we expect two in particular. On the one hand, the Government's serious approach to addressing the problem is also due to the rigidity of legislation, and on the other hand certain changes and innovative approaches to those who work professionally in this area, which will need to be found, including under existing legislation, new ways, new ways to obtain a larger number of donors in a way that is not disputed with anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, member of the Council of State, colleagues and all others present. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe in the well-intention of the law's proponents to try to provide enough urgently needed organs for transplantation, for the purposes of treatment and life-saving for as many people as possible. In the SLS Group, however, we are not united in our opinion on the support of the law, as it opens up a lot of unresolved dilemmas. The proposal for amendments and additions introduces a new category, the so-called supposed consent, according to which we are all donors, to the extent that we do not explicitly oppose it. However, no organ removal may be carried out if there is or is presumed to be, an objection by the deceased. An individual may prevent the removal of parts of his body after death by an explicit written statement given to a personal physician. If we come from our Constitution, which states in Article 35 that it is, I quote: "The inviolability of human physical and mental integrity, privacy and personal rights is guaranteed." Article 18 of the Constitution also states: "It is forbidden for man to do medical or other scientific experiments without his free consent." As a result, free human consent is required for every intervention on the body, even after death, including organ transplantation. As we know, any medical intervention actually requires the consent of a patient or family member. However, the withdrawal of transplantation authorities is an even more sensitive arrangement and the question is therefore raised as to whether the alleged consent is admissible at all. As the Ombudsman also stated in her opinion, we are interfering with a very sensitive area of human rights. For we are reaching into the inviolability of human life and of its body. However, in the event that the law is adopted, the law should lay down the obligation to inform all citizens with a specific form, similar to that of a doctor. The notification or form should become a mandatory part of the patient’s file with the personal physician. The law should also include explicit mandatory notification of patients or relatives that a statement of opposition has been entered into the relevant register. Although the Slovenian transplant works very well. The system is set up and organised on ethical criteria, only organs, as is known, are lacking. The fact that it is not currently possible to meet the needs of a variety of bodies is known, which is of course a cause for concern. In transplant medicine, where part of the human body is used as a medicine, it is considered that each country must take care of its own patients. Transfer or donation of organs to another country is only exceptionally possible. The activity of transplanting parts of the human body is linked to a number of factors that need to be mutually coordinated. We agree with the proponents who state that the most developed activity means more hope for more patients for this type of treatment and, as a result, they are increasingly included in the waiting list. According to law and ethical principles, all possible methods to improve transplant programmes must be taken care of and used. It is true, however, that the alleged consent of a coerced body means an intervention into a human body without consent, which is ethically and also constitutionally and legally indisputable. We are confident that even with a more intensive campaign and a commitment, such as by personal doctors, to alert patients to the possibility of becoming donors, to achieve more responsive responses and to respond more people to become donors. [[...]] In view of the experience of information so far on the possibility of a donation, we can conclude that citizens will be under-informed about the possibility of an objection, which is controversial and even unacceptable. In any event, information and awareness need to be stimulated so that more people choose to donate organs after death and thereby save a lot of lives. As it is said, we are not a single opinion in the Slovenian People's Party's Group on this sensitive issue and on the inadequacy of the proposal. However, in the case of first-reading confirmation, a thorough finalisation of the proposal for amendments to the law will be necessary. However, we support the procedure proposed by the Government or the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Mag. All of Klavor will move forward with the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u10	Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The definition of organ and tissue donation is the highest form of individual ethical consciousness and the highest form of solidarity with the human being. By definition, a person can become a donor of organs and tissues after death. By giving and transplanting an organ or tissue, we help the patient to maintain life or provide him with a better quality of life. Treatment with organ and tissue transplantation is an increasingly well-established treatment of the worst or most serious diseases worldwide. The needs for organs and tissues are very high both in the world and in us. The number of organs or tissues waiting on the body or tissue is everywhere greater than the number of organs or tissues obtained. This is also the case in the Republic of Slovenia with a lack of adequate bodies, which we are trying to resolve through mutual exchanges with other European countries. The lack of organs has been attempted by the proposer to resolve with the bill before us. In our parliamentary group, personally, we support the bill in principle, because its purpose is noble and it is in the direction of trying to obtain more suitable organs. Unfortunately, after careful consideration and consultation with the legal service, we have found that the proposal is too far-fetched and leaves open very important issues that raise fear of abuse of the provision on alleged consent, which defines all citizens as organ donors, unless explicitly opposed. We believe that silence means consent or that everyone agrees to be taken away as part of an act of human solidarity, which is not generally accepted, as is also evident from the recent hot debates in the public. The fact is that such an important intervention must depend on man’s true will. However, according to our assessment, the proposed amendments interfere with the autonomy of an individual, in his dignity, in his inseparable right to have access to his own body from birth, and therefore such interventions, which can be morally and ethically controversial, must be justified primarily in terms of the protection of human rights and freedoms. Each individual may decide, by his own will, whether to give or not to share his or her body. At this point, we would like to point out that, as an issue, we can also refer to the provision of the law now in force, which gives the right of its owners to act contrary to the will of the individual, that is, if it has been defined as a donor during the lifetime and then the family opposes the withdrawal. Allow me to tell you my own experience in this regard, as I have been involved several times in my professional work in the seizure of organs. Not at all are simple matters, these are very serious matters, and despite the legislation and despite everything we have written so far in this regard, there are sometimes serious human complications. It's not as easy as you can say it, you have to experience it in the middle of the night. Even the envisaged change in this regime, even though you are applying a way of universal donorism, still gives the right to its owners, as I mentioned earlier. In view of our assessment of very serious concerns, we will support in our parliamentary group the Government's position that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we expect the Government, together with the competent services and the Slovenian-transplant, to launch appropriate promotional actions that will bring people closer to donorism, with emphasis on solidarity, unselfishness in life-saving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! The proposed bill is too much an intervention in individual autonomy and autonomy in order to allow for this terrible change in the Slovenian National Party Group. In fact, it is to be determined that all of us are marital donors, only those who resist in a difficult way do not need to be. So far it has been the other way around, and whoever wanted to be a donor has arranged it in the way that it was possible. Perhaps it would make sense for the government to draw up an easy version of this approach into a group of donors. However, the way they did so in the State Council is by no means acceptable. Just a donation and a transplant is something specific. The fact is, the detection of brain death allows for a lot of organic life, while the body is still alive, while the brain is already failing to function. A lot of times it happens that people who want to take away the organs for the transplants come to the city rather than the ambulance. These are things the world knows, and we just can't go through with it. In our client, we fear that this could also somehow instill some trade in parts of human bodies, with organs for transplantation, and that at the expense of that, some would serve. After all, the pharmaceutical industry earns a lot of money by trying to tell people that the transplant is meaningful and so on. Doctors, especially anesthesiologists who were involved in transplant medicine, have repeatedly stopped doing this work, for the experience they experienced has led to the physical reactions of the body, and they have said that they will no longer be able to do so. The matter is not simple, and we do not know enough about life and death to determine in such an easy way when something will be taken away or how long it will take for that body on the market. For I am sure that many, including those of the medical species, would see here great opportunities for wonderful earnings, which is, after all, already happening. Transplants of parts of the human body occur in the Philippines, China, in short, in the Asian work, even by kidnapping people, cutting out their kidneys, sewing them back up and allowing them back into the human herd, as it were. Things are terrible. And here I fear that this law is trying to achieve something similar, even though I do not doubt the perhaps very humanitarian initiative and the desire of those who have proposed the matter. Yet, all of this is fundamentally underthinking. Too little of the profession was involved or maybe nothing. It may have been the most, the greatest desire for personal promotion, the promotion of the State Council or the like, but again it can be seen that the State Council does not perform its functions as it should, but in fact this is one kick into the darkness, harmful, horrifyingly harmful to the human race, especially Slovenia, and that in the State Council it is actually an "appendix" of state parliamentary arrangements. I don't think there's much to talk about this law anymore about this proposal. We judge in our party that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and we will also support the government's negative decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the law on transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment. Despite the fact that there is a change of law for a good and noble purpose, we will not support it at the LDS Club for further consideration. Before giving my reasons for our decision, I would like to commend the efforts of the Council of State to modernise and modernise the current law, and we view today's debate at the LDS Club as necessary, useful, to inform the public as much as possible about the importance of transplantation in Slovenia and the problems it is dealing with and facing. We are talking about an activity that has enabled many not to end their lives too quickly, and with the development of medicine it will certainly gain importance. In doing so, we agree with the proposaler's introductory view that Slovenia too faces the need for more modern legislation on life-time donations, as we face increased needs such as donors. On this point, it is our clear view that in this case it is a very sensitive topic, which raises a whole range of questions about the active role of an individual or the question of his or her decision and true will, ethics in general, as well as medical ethics, the principles of donorism, other possible forms of treatment, the evident medical eligibility of intervention and could still be mentioned. Therefore, in our view, there is a slightly different path to a solution or a change of law that the National Council has chosen. This is, in the first place, the widest possible public debate and information of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the professional and other public and, in particular, each individual must be involved, since it is an area which affects the individual's right to make a decision. In the correctness of our thinking, we are convinced by the reactions of part of the public to a proposal for a legal text that could be seen as a negative response, which was certainly due to incomplete information and poor knowledge of organ and tissue donation for the purpose of treatment in the lay public. For such a change, in our view, it is necessary to achieve as much information and social consensus as possible and then to make a legislative change. According to the proposaler, a legal consent is already in force in the 2000 Act, but is not fully implemented in practice, and a thorough recast of the articles is therefore necessary in order to express a uniformly clear policy on alleged consent in all articles. However, even if all of this is true, on the other hand, there has been a great deal of caution and recommendation that all changes be presented as widely as possible to the public as possible and as easily and as easily as possible comprehensiblely as possible. This should - and this is not just our opinion - be done before the law is introduced into the parliamentary procedure. The urgency of such conduct is dictated by the proposed solution, which, in our view, substantially changes the concept of the current law, where consent is no longer a matter of consent, but of consent or consent; if you do not say so, it is automatically considered an consent to a donation. What the proponents are referring to, at first glance, can convince us to accept, adopt, but on the other hand, in the countries with the said legislation, there are different ways of developing donation programmes, which in the first place depends on how each country is able to control the factors and influence the conditions: the development and regulation of the health system, the level of national income, cultural aspects, the education of the population, etc. The problem that we see - and this is also pointed out by the ethical transplant commission - can arise because of the lack of information from the professional public and from citizens and citizens, which can therefore have a completely opposite effect from what is desired. Inadequate and rapid ways of introducing changes can also lead to mistrust in the field of medicine, at a time when the health system is already on strike. Following the assurance of the profession in Slovenia, there is no abuse in transplant procedures, so it would be wrong if, due to the lack of information in the introduction of a different solution, a misunderstanding and doubts were created in the determination of the method of consent to the donation. The above arguments are precisely the reason why we are held back in the LDS Club until the bill is presented. We regret that, given the well-intention of their proposal, the applicants have not recognised and have not initiated the proposed information activities of citizens and citizens. According to the profession, between 70% and 90% of Slovenia supports the donation, but there are very few legally valid statements for the donation. We therefore rightly ask the LDS whether we have done everything possible to introduce the proposed model, so we are primarily interested in the opinion of the professions whose changes are needed and in what way. We just want to be able to realise the opinion and direction of the profession so that Slovenia can achieve the European summit itself in this area and we are, as they say, on the right track also because of tradition in this area and where, despite all that, citizens and citizens do not have a very conservative view when it comes to the donation of human organs. This is why the development of activities is already reaching the level of gold between European countries, despite the fact that in the mid-1990s, transplant treatment was more or less in bandages. In our view, however, priority should be given to those activities and measures which could already lead to an improvement in the treatment situation through transplantation under the current legislation. The profession estimates that there are still a lot of reserves in increasing the activities in hospitals where transplantation activities can be carried out. Since transplantation is a very advanced medical branch, it is important to warn the profession that activities should also be increased in order to exceed the possible retention of some doctors until transplantation. Doctors can help. We agree that modern legislation would also contribute to progress. In doing so, the law in force, which was adopted in 2000, is very well adapted to the professional guidelines for transplantation, which, for the most part, is still in line with the most modern requirements. However, in the view of the profession, it would be necessary to amend the provisions referring to the way in which operators would be able to obtain organs as easily as possible. In our view, the provision to define a person in writing for the time of life against the gift of the human body, while non-definition means consent, constitutes a fundamental change in the concept of law, which would require a broader public hearing in order to obtain general agreement. In the LDS, we support the position of the Government, which supports the amendment of the law in principle, but at the same time points out that it would be wrong if the law in the work relating to the recipient provided that the transplant could be carried out if the recipient agreed before the intervention, but in the work relating to the removal of the body part of the deceased, it provided that the transfer could be carried out if the recipient did not expressly oppose it. It believes that silence means consent or that everyone agrees to be taken away as part of an act of human solidarity is not generally accepted. While the ethical commission also agrees with the proposed amendments presented, it points out that the planned changes should be thoroughly informed by the professional and other public. The proposed changes are a source of autonomy, human dignity, and an inalienable right to have a human body from birth. It is therefore an intervention that must be justified in terms of human rights and freedoms, as it can be morally and ethically controversial. This part, which is a question of respect for and protection of human rights, was also pointed out by the Ombudsman. Each individual must decide whether to give part of his body or not. From this point of view, there is also a dispute over the provision of an existing law which gives the right to act and decide contrary to the will of the individual in the event that he has been identified as a donor during his lifetime and then opposes the withdrawal of his property and vice versa. The envisaged change in this regime, even though it enforces a way of universal donorism, still confers this right on its own. In its opinion, the Government also drew attention to the provision of Article 181(4) of the Penal Code, which was omitted in the proposal. This is an important provision which states that a doctor who takes a part of the body from someone for transplantation or transplants a part of the body without having previously obtained a prescribed consent from the donor and the recipient or their legal representatives, shall be punished with a prison sentence of three months to five years. In the LDS Club presented to the Government, the Ethics Commission, the Ombudsman, the Professional and other public, we can only add that we agree that a change of law is necessary in accordance with EU guidelines and in the direction of alleged consent, as is regulated in some countries. But we have similar concerns, doubts and warnings. At the same time, we understand and support the efforts of the Slovenian company Transplant, which combines patients with transplanted organs, which highlight the importance of donation for individuals whose lives depend on rapid and successful transplantation. We therefore expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fulfil its commitment and to prepare a new proposal for a law or amendment and to supplement the existing law on the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Mr Andreja Richter on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u16	Very well greeted, distinguished Vice President, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats support Transplant and their society, especially our common concern at the fact that the lack of organs or other parts of the body for transplantation is one of the major problems in transplant medicine, both in Slovenia and in the world. We are aware that the number of people waiting for organ transplants is increasing from year to year. And we are also aware that due to lack of organs, 20 to 30 patients die annually on waiting lists. For me personally and also for my colleagues, this is a large percentage that must concern us. The individual’s decision to become a donor is often difficult due to different circumstances and influences, including traditions and ways of life. I am of the opinion that it is most often a lack of information about the procedures for organ and tissue collection and the fear of possible abuse. It will therefore be necessary to devote more time to this topic and to increase awareness of the gift and, in particular, of the procedures involved. This is also why my initiative and the initiative of my colleagues to make a public presentation of the opinions of the National Assembly. Nevertheless, we are on the right track. The increase in the number of received dead donors in the last year is due to the very active part of the company Slovenija-transplant. It is also a result of the coordinated operation of various experts, as well as the Ministry of Health, which has begun to act as an external supervisor to verify the activity of detecting potential dead donors on the basis of indicators for the required analysis of data from donor hospitals, which is one of the most important measures with the Spanish model. The increase in production in donor hospitals in 2008 is a noticeable increase, also in the General Hospital Celje, which has reached an increase of 100% and has increased its activity at the level of perception of dead donors - I read from the data report prim. Dr. Danice Avsec, members of Slovenia - transplant. According to the company, information should be primarily expanded among responsible doctors in Slovenia, as well as building a system for the inclusion of patients on the waiting list. That our common problem is improving is also due to the improvement of education in individual relevant specialist professions. Social Democrats welcome the activities of the Council of State and Councillor Petr Požun, who, together with Slovenia-transplant, prepared a proposal for a law in order to solve the issue of organ donation. It is right, however, that this chapter has been opened, as it must be regulated and brought to an end until a new law is adopted. At the same time, however, our Group believes that the proposed changes affect the autonomy and dignity of an individual, in his dignity, insofar as, from birth, the inalienable right to have access to his or her own body must be resolved to such actions, which are morally and ethically controversial, based primarily on the protection of human rights and freedoms, which my predecessors have finally presented. Measures that may be morally and ethically controversial must also be justified in terms of the protection of human rights and freedoms. This was pointed out by the Government's Law Service, which cited the provision of Article 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The government service also reminded us of Article 181 of the Penal Code, which stipulates how a doctor should be treated in the process of transplanting parts of the body, as the Minister himself pointed out in the presentation of the Government's opinions. That is why the Social Democrats, mostly - in our Group of Members, we support the Government's decision. I would like to point out here that decisions are still a matter and the responsibility of each Member. We support the preparation by the Government of a new proposal for a law or amendment and addition to the existing law on the removal and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment, and in particular due to the adoption process of the European directives that are still being drawn up under the Spanish Presidency. This is supposed to be the basis for the modernisation of our legislation, which is expected to be adopted this year. The Group of Members, as I mentioned, largely supports the adoption below, but rejects the proposed law. As I say, there is still a separate opinion in the Group of Members, and so is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Štefan Tisel on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u18	Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister with co-worker, Honourable State Councillor, Member of Parliament and Members. Transplantary medicine is a relatively young knowledge that has gained its place also in Slovenian space and has stood alongside world medicine. Surgery and appropriate legislation were needed in this area, and sometimes the only hope is a transplanted organ, such as a completely weakened heart, liver failure or complete lung failure. However, it can allow patients with renal failure to be associated with dialysis for the rest of their lives and to improve their quality of life through kidney transplantation. The pre-condition for successful organ transplantation is the maximum tissue compatibility of the recipient with the donor. Thus, in 1969 a laboratory was established in Slovenia to determine tissue conformity at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Blood Transfusion. The following year, 1970, the first kidney transplant of a living donor was performed in the Clinical Center of Ljubljana. The same year, a corneal transplant was carried out. In 1989, for the first time, the kidney was removed and transplanted by a deceased donor. The first transplant law was passed in Slovenia in 1985. If it is possible to have a living donor in the kidney, it is not possible to have a heart, lungs, liver. When the first kidney was removed from the dead donor and was successfully transplanted, other organs were also given the opportunity to transplant. The first heart transplant and the first pancreatic transplant in Slovenia was in 1990. First successful liver transplant in 1995, lung transplant in 2003. In 2001 a new regulation on the detection of brain death was adopted in Slovenia. This is observed by a group of physicians of appropriate specialities who may not be of the type of physicians who have treated the patient, nor by those who have taken or transplanted the organs. In the first place, safety and quality and traceability of human organs and reporting of severe adverse events and reactions should be ensured. This is discussed in the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation. Since the aim is to help as many patients as possible, including with the possibility of organ transplantation, positive mechanisms should be put in place to allow sufficient donor deaths. In 2000, the National Assembly adopted the Act on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment. The law lays down the conditions for the removal of parts of the human body for treatment both in the case of live and dead donors. A donor card was introduced. Thus, people decided by signing that in the event of death they could be taken away by transplant authorities, the cards were promoted through the Red Cross network and health institutions. The response was very low, or 1%. In Slovenia, transplant medicine developed well, although Slovenia did not participate in the Eurotransplant until 2000 it had worked well with it before. It had previously forwarded the seized bodies to the European space and had received them from there. We need to know that it is necessary to have as many donors as possible to find a suitable donor whose tissue typification is as appropriate as possible for the potential recipient. Thus, it is possible for as many people as possible to obtain an appropriate body. Some countries, such as Belgium, Austria, the Czech Republic and Croatia, have adopted legislation that introduces a register of people who oppose organ donation and a similar proposal for a law on the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment is now ahead of us. He's being proposed by the State Council. The law provides for a written definition against the gift of parts of the human body. Register against would be managed by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation, Slovenia-transplant. Of course, the person who makes a statement against it may at any time withdraw his statement in writing in the same way as it was made. The removal of parts of the human body shall not take place if, following a medical explanation received, the closest family members or patients expressly oppose the seizure of parts of the human body and state the circumstances that indicate that the deceased did not agree to the removal of parts of the human body after death during life. With the adoption of the law in Slovenia, there could also be more opportunities for the removal of organs for the dead to be transplanted to patients on the waiting list, which would mean improving health or even prolonging life or survival. With the participation of Eurotransplants, the number of donors with typographical related tissue is greatly increased and the possibility of obtaining the necessary organ more quickly, thus reducing waiting types. It's mostly a problem of suspicion of abuse. In this regard, Prime Minister Danica Avsec, Director of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation, Slovenia-transplant, told us that there is no abuse. There are also no priority organ allocations. The system works so well that any possible abuse will be detected, prevented and punished immediately. We can be justifiably proud of this, says the hostess. I will also read about preventing abuse, the guiding principles of the 1990 World Health Organization. Organs are only allowed for transplantation of live and dead donors in accordance with the following guiding principles. The first principle provides that organs may be removed from the bodies of dead persons only if all legal consent is obtained and there is no reason to believe that the deceased objected to the confiscation. On the second principle: Doctors who detect death must not participate directly in the seizure and transplantation, nor must they be responsible for the care of future recipients. Thirdly, as far as possible, transplantation is carried out with the organs of dead donors, yet adult living people can donate organs, but generally only for transplantation to genetic relatives. Exceptions may be made in the gift of bone marrow and other renewable tissues. Taking away an adult living donor requires his consent, which must be free and not under the influence of force or threat. The donor must be aware of the seriousness of the consent of the intervention. The fourth principle prohibits the taking away of a live juvenile, but in national law individual exceptions to this principle are allowed in the case of renewable tissues. The fifth principle is the prohibition of trade with authorities and the sixth is the prohibition of advertising the supply of bodies for the purpose of payment or offering payment to the authorities. Doctors must not intervene if they suspect that the body has been obtained in an improper manner by trade. Nor shall they receive prizes for such interventions exceeding the value of a certain tariff, as set out in principle 7 and 8. The latter, the ninth principle, in accordance with the principle of fairness and equality, requires that donated bodies be made available to patients on the basis of the needs of treatment and not on a financial or any other basis. If we look at how many organs were transplanted in Slovenia this year: from 1 to 28 February they transplanted 14 organs, 7 kidneys, 3 livers and 4 hearts in one month. If we look at how many are waiting for them, 130 are waiting for a kidney transplant, but we know they do about 50 kidney transplants a year. There's a heart transplant waiting for 31 people, on the liver 21. As for lung transplantation, however, there is no data because they are not transplanted in Slovenia, but in Vienna. Maybe there's a statement from one pediatrician after a liver transplant to the kids. Assistant Dr. Matjaž Homan from the Clinical Department for Gastroenterology of the Pediatric Clinic in Ljubljana says: "There is no greater joy than watching babies who were infuriated, irritable, yellow-green until the liver transplantation, with large bellies, and then within months of transplanting they become pink, satisfied and strong children who can expect a fully normal childhood." That is why I personally support the purpose of the law, and the SDS Group is inclined to do so. We will vote on our conscience. In view of today's presentations, however, we find that the law as such is not appropriate, and I therefore support the proposals for the Government to provide a more appropriate law that will allow more donors to come first for transplantation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Certainly, we have heard several times today that the goal and purpose can be good, that life today is such and that medicine is progressing so that organ transplantation can save and prolong lives. To this end, of course, no content is disputed. From here on out, there are some facts, and these facts are in themselves preventing the adoption of a law in the form it is being transmitted today. The first fact is the constitution - as we have already heard. Another fact to be taken into account is such and different religious beliefs that allow or prohibit. But what I fear most is exactly what the previous speaker ended up with, namely, trafficking and trafficking in human organs. Let me prove this doubt and fear. It was said that there was no trafficking in human organs in Slovenia and that it was possible to identify it immediately. By comparison, Slovenia was five years ago, a country in trafficking in human beings, which was only a transit state, i.e. a transitional state. This record is kept by Europe and the world, as well as by the various investigative bodies that maintain this record. Today, Slovenia is not only a transition country, but is, unfortunately, already a target country and also a country of origin in human trafficking. In five years, Slovenia has created a country of destination and a country of origin from an innocent Slovenia. We trade Slovenians with people. Those who trade with people have the ultimate goal of Slovenia. Everyone knows that, and that's proveable. This story will be repeated, irrespective of this law, but with this law perhaps even easier, in dealing with human organs, to which I was reminded two months ago in London at one of the conferences where we talked about trafficking in human beings, that in the world, trade with human organs is on the rise, but it is taking place in different ways. Well, two are the worst. One is this -- these are extremes, but they happen -- that people are kidnapped, even killed to resell human organs. And the other thing they have warned us about in London is that there are countries that have more liberal legislation on transplant procedures - I just don't understand because I'm not a doctor - and that this is kind of a legal permit to exploit trafficking and trafficking in human organs. Unfortunately, human nature is such that it is not a limit to earning money. I would like very much to help to ensure that as many people as possible agree to make their organs available and to save lives. My opinion is - this is my view that the system, as in force in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, is good. The question is whether the approach to the implementation of this system is sufficiently proactive, sufficiently strong. Look at the example of medicines, the pharmaceutical industry is, if you look at a flat rate in the propaganda program on TV, it finds that almost 50% of all advertising is a pharmacy. If we are already in this area, it is money again, but if, why not, the existing system, the possibility of people being identified as organ donors, why should we leave this option only to the Red Cross and to some other voluntary organisations that you yourself know do not have their own resources in such a quantity so that we can do a stronger information action. We have a number of institutions that can enforce the existing law and thus help to increase the number, barely 1% of the people ready to donate organs. Nothing from today to tomorrow grows from 0 to 100. If we compare this with different securities. Three years ago, a million possibilities were to make 400% of the increase in resources in three months at a time. We see where that led us, the total collapse. If this action were to be carried out conscientiously, planned through the Department of Health Insurance, through health care homes, through hospitals, through the Ministry and through its actions, as a number of preventive actions are being carried out, I am sure that this percentage would increase year after year. I do not believe, however, that it is the power to design or transform the proposal of today's law into such a form as to avoid organ trafficking and not to violate the constitutional provision. My view is that this law, despite good will, is not suitable for further consideration. And perhaps with a proposal and a warning that there are other religious and other beliefs besides constitutional ones that would prevent such a law from preparing, if necessary, such a law that will preserve human dignity and, on the other hand, help to increase the number of donors. This moment, I say again, I propose and I see that, with the wider action of existing legislation, we will determine, I am sure, the acceleration of the growing need, I believe, and, thank God, also the possibilities for the transplantation of human organs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u21	The word is "ma'am mag." Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! Dear Members, Members, the distinguished Minister and others present! When I read the views on the proposal for a law on the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment, I was most surprised by the initial agreement of the Ministry of Health with the bill, then by the terminology used to explain its opinion, as well as by the agreement of some members of the ethical commission for transplantation with the bill. This position was given by the Ministry of Health at the time of the former Minister's ministry. With the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we have guaranteed citizens and citizens of Slovenia some fundamental personal rights. Under Article 35 of the Constitution, I quote, "the inviolability of human integrity and personal rights is guaranteed". We can't lose these rights. Even after his death, a person’s body could be at his disposal through the will of an individual, as proposed by law. For the law assumes that everyone is stricken by the seizure of organs after his death if he does not explicitly oppose the seizure of organs during his lifetime. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that an equally controversial provision is now a valid law that gives the right of its owners to act contrary to the will of the individual if it has been defined as a donor during life and the family disagrees. This provision of the law must be amended. I understand the desire of those who need and work in the medical profession to enable the lives or better lives of the living with the organs of the deceased, but it is not permissible for an individual to take away the decision on his or her own body. A law that would allow the seizure of organs to an individual after his death following his express consent would not be in accordance with the Constitution. Even in the opinion of those who care about the legality of laws that come into parliamentary treatment. It interferes with the autonomy of an individual, his dignity, and his inalienable right to have his own body. It would be a marriage that would be ethically controversial and would interfere with human rights and freedoms. However, the words of the competent ministry to this law must be imagined. The Ministry believes that the legal regime for the removal of the human body must follow the resulting decay, I quote, "between the demand and the supply of parts of the human body". The Ministry believes that, I quote, "the increase in demand for supply requires a change in the legal regime". These words sound like a human body market, as if it were not a human donation of the organs of our dear dead mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, sons, daughters and friends. The Ministry deals with the human donation of the human body by market terminology. Your Honor! I would expect the competent ministry to act in accordance with the Constitution, so that the first step will be to defend human dignity and the inalienable right to dispose of its own body, but that was not the case. According to the Ministry's terminology, the deceased have become part of the human body, part of an offer to meet the demand for this wealth on the market. Legislation is also expected to adapt to this market. Such an approach by the Ministry to the population is not accidental. We also meet with him occasionally when it comes to living, so health is becoming more and more a health care market, where part of the health staff is on foot for profits at the expense of the health of the population. Citizens are often considered to be the ones who have the right to decide primarily by the medical profession. It is no coincidence, therefore, that for many years we have been given laws that ignore the rights of patients, the right to health care of individuals, and the decision on health care is passed by the public concerned. With current laws, the medical profession preserves the monopoly of decision on our bodies for the time of our lives. And after this bill, even after the will of the inhabitants, the medical profession could decide on our bodies even after we die. Because of these dilemmas, I do not agree with the proposed law and will vote against this bill, although I personally favour the human act of organ donation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u23	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague. The subject matter of this law is extremely sensitive, and I believe that everyone who listens to it is experiencing some distressing feeling, but it is a reality. This theme saves lives. Therefore, I do not think that there should be room for any political debate in this area or anything to do with it. It would be good to look for solutions that will better regulate this area than we have in Slovenia now. I am very consistent in my defense of the inviolability of the human body. This is a constitutional right and also a human right, and it is right to do everything we can to avoid abuse. This must be crucial, not only in this area, but also in all others. In Slovenia we have this area, at least this is what the data show, arranged in a model. Many countries can imitate us. However, even though we have such arrangements, there is clearly a need for organs that save a person’s life, more than we actually have donors. I am also pleased to note that in Slovenia there is no abuse, which is commendable and should be done exclusively further. But what to do to save this thing in the interest of those waiting for the organs. We know that every year a few of them die because they do not come to the proper authorities to save their lives. In the first place, this area must be regulated legally in Slovenia in a way that will really enable it without the possibility of abuse. In particular, it is comparable to European countries where they have a higher percentage of organ production and have legislation regulated in the light of this proposal from the Council of State. But there will certainly be much more to be done in raising public awareness. The law that is now in force, if I recall correctly, I think it was adopted in 2000, which means that it has been ten years. It is clear that shortcomings have been identified during this period, perhaps even a lack of awareness, which suggests that more needs to be done in this area. I therefore believe that it is necessary to commend the applicants for coming up with this topic, which, if not the other, will speed up the resolution or preparation of appropriate legislation that will adequately regulate this area. That is why I would not share the opinion that this is just some populism move of the State Council. This is a humane move to be commended. However, the content of this law, at least according to government statements or government statements, is likely to require some correction or correction. In its opinion, however, the government opposes this. I do not object to these arguments, but I find them somewhat difficult to understand because the arguments from 22 European countries with similar content or similar solutions show that the way in which consent is supposed to produce good results, including with other elements. That is why we may need to look for solutions in this direction. As I said, in Slovenia there is a lack of awareness among people in this area. However, surveys also show that the vast majority of people are willing to donate organs after death. And today's debate is also a piece that will probably contribute to greater awareness if the media or the people accompanying it report on it. It is therefore necessary to continue this procedure. I am very pleased that Mr Minister has said that the Government will prepare a new bill or amendment of law, but I have a dilemma because in the 2010 government programme - of course you, Mr Minister, have not participated because you have only been in this role for a good fourteen days - there is no provision for such a bill. I would therefore appeal to you to give this topic priority because, as I mentioned, it saves lives. This is an important area which, of course, should be regulated. He himself would not have rejected this matter so easily today that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Given that we can only discuss Members and Members here today and, of course, Mr Minister with a co-worker, and this subject requires probably a broader debate, it has also been somehow indicated that a public presentation of the opinions will take place. That's good, too. But why would it not be such a discussion, which will mainly be with the participants in this section of the Health Committee, because they also have the opportunity of civil society, and the experts in this area can only discuss it there, so that this law is not an example to be adopted in such a form? Let's just let it go, so I wouldn't say that this law or this content, let's seal the matter today to wait for something new to come or not. Every month that we gain with proper regulation can be solved, although we do not know how many lives, but certainly what kind of lives, so I hope, given that this law, since it has been able to be understood from the debates of the parliamentary groups, will not receive further support, but I hope that the Government will then make the first move as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u25	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u26	Respected and respected! Allow me to participate personally in the debate on the bill. I was connected to the area first as the leader of an intensive unit when we put this up at Izola General Hospital, and now for so many years it's been waiting for me as the minister. Allow me first of all to express my heartfelt thanks to all those who have donated organs and made it possible for those who have accepted these organs to live a better life. Secondly, to all the relatives who have allowed this procedure to take place. Then some of my systemic concerns, which I will try to dispel, why would I suggest that you allow the Government or the Ministry to draw up a law, hold a public debate and upgrade the system. There are many views, some say that the law needs to be changed, and the system will improve. In this area, the profession says there is a need for legislation that is mainly concerned with quality and security, but there is a great deal to be done on the system. Finally, we have 10 years of law and Slovenia is in this area at an extremely high level and thanks in this work to all experts working in this area. Tansplacing activity is one of the world's top activities. And if Slovenia was able to prepare it, all thanks to experts who can do this, but the current decision-making principle has enabled us to gain 1% of potential donors. Fortunately or unfortunately, however you wish, fortunately none of these have donated organs, which means that they are still among us. Large activities will be needed to increase this percentage. The largest achievement in this area was achieved in the Netherlands, where 36% of potential donors are identified for, in Slovenia 1%. I believe that there is a need to do this in the process and to move it into the environment where we are more often confronted with the health system. A conversation with the primary level so that they may take over this activity. The second part in fact, however legislation is regulated today, you know, you've discussed a lot about it, actually the bodies that we have acquired because I told you that none of the actively defined have donated, we have received from passively defined citizens, because their relatives have agreed to do so. If we want to increase this in today's situation, there will be a great deal to be done on the awareness campaign and to actually figure out whether these 80, 90% of Slovenians are supposed to determine that they are for donation or are for transplant activities, the question understands. If yes, then it will be easier to hold discussions that are very delicate and difficult, with relatives at these most difficult times to maybe increase this part. And in this sense, my main comment to the preparers, whom I commend for addressing this topic, is extremely flawed in the analysis. I don't know if just how many organs we need and how many are on the waiting list or how many potential donors there are, it's enough to decide to change this legislation. And maybe analysis, based on analysis, solve those critical issues and gradually upgrade the current system of active definition. In that sense, I will take my stand. I listened carefully to all of your debate, and I will also later try to incorporate most of it into the legislation. However, the commitment and the adopted European directive will be the one that will guide the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u27	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will express my regret that I see now that we will be among the few who support this bill as it is before us today. In this sense, it is suitable for further discussion, for complementarities, for modification, even for analyses that could have been done long ago. May I remind you that the law was introduced on February 11th into the procedure. So we've had a while, and we haven't taken advantage of it. And just by putting it off, it's not yet guaranteed that we'll have better analysis for the decision. Besides, I'm thinking the next thing. The proposal came from some starting points, from some conclusions that say that it would be very good if we had more donors, comes from the assumption that we are willing to donate people, that we will potentially also be those who, if necessary, are the recipients of the possible organs, and that it is already enough because we have valid reasons and because we know that people currently need organs and tissues that are needed to speed up, but not to ignore the quality of the solutions. I'm sure I'm among those rare, I've been a donor for about a decade, and I can assure those who, due to administrative obstacles, do not decide that it's such a small job to become a donor, that it really can't be a reason not to be. There must be other motives for this. But the government has actually supported the intent of the law, i.e. in principle, not only the Government, but also some of the parliamentary groups I have heard today - in principle they support, only in fact are they now against a process that could improve the draft or proposal that we have before us. The government listed about three reasons why it is against, and today the minister told the fourth that he is opposed because the nomotechnic law is relatively weak, which is not a valid argument. She stated that concerns about autonomy, which, according to my judgment, we have the possibility that everyone would also say "no", that even the family would say "no" and that if we took into account the ethical commission's proposal, which one part of it has left out, it is that the family can say "no" even though those who would be a donor in life did not think so, so we have every opportunity not to violate autonomy and the freedom of individual personality. Those who know the most about how important this is, so the society of those who live with transplanted organs supports it, have direct experience, so they should probably listen. Those who also support and have not been explicitly mentioned are people who make up the Commission on Medical Ethics, not some laymen in this area, but experts who probably also know what kind of analysis and decide what they know. The ethical transplant commission has also supported it. And since the Ombudsman was mentioned, the Ombudsman supported this bill, she wrote: "We have no comments." Except for proposals to make appropriate promotions, to be properly informed and not to make any mistakes or steps too little in this area. If the government had actually been so positive about this intention, I think that we could shorten the deadline until the law is also adopted, because it could be repaired, supplemented or improved, however we wish to say so. However, the last argument presented by the Government today is the argument of the directive that is yet to come, which is not mentioned in the written rejection of the Government at all, but is mentioned in the bill as something that has already been taken into account, as far as it has been known, but we know that such a directive has not been adopted today. But we're not here in the clear search and guesswork of what's gonna happen. We know about that. This is also what international practice tells us, so I think we have enough arguments, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to say that the law is suitable for further consideration, although perhaps it is not so perfect, I would also find another question if I had the time to have exactly what it is proposed to be adopted. [[...]] I think he's suitable for further consideration. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u29	The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I am actually the holder of the "Donor" card, I think today's debate is very important, particularly in-depth and it is very good to hear the opinions of all comrades and colleagues, no matter what side they come from. The law in force was adopted 10 years ago and through practice, or those who have acted in one way in this area have found out what the advantages and weaknesses are and what else can be done in this area. It saddens me that in Slovenia we actually have only one percent of those who have identified themselves as donors, of course, posthumous. Why other countries have more and, in particular, the Netherlands 36%, is likely to be found. I think that today's debate will in one way encourage all those who do not yet know all about joining the membership and deciding on an active stratus. Personally, I am not in favour of a negative approach, that is to say that those individuals and individuals who are opposed are registered. I am in favour of registering those who are in favour, because I believe and I am sure that most Slovenians and Slovenes and citizens of our Slovenia would actually, if they knew, be members and donors, because this is a positive approach and not an approach that was somehow preferred in this dictatorship. However, it is certainly necessary to take advantage of any action, an action in a healthcare institution through a family, general, personal doctor, including all other actions related to health, health and nutrition activities, and to make use of this approach statement. And if those who work in logistics are present, and if they hear my words, I hope they work on it. As a member of the Red Cross, as a blooddresser, I came to this form and filled out the form. I believe, and I hope, that the profession in Slovenia in this area and in others, in particular transplantation, will achieve a great deal with the great efforts of the personal, individuals, doctors, unfortunately, some are already dead, we are also in one way known in the world, and I believe and hope that the proposal for a law, which the Government, together with the Ministry of Health, will, in particular, have a very high level of knowledge and conduct here, will approach this area in one way and will also propose very deeply to the National Assembly. I am reserved for this bill, and I believe positively that the public debate has stimulated probably the thinking of others in this area that they will work better and more actively in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u31	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I agree that we have before us a law that interferes with an extremely sensitive area and that we must also act with extreme caution in the National Assembly. In no way could we afford a different opinion than that it is unacceptable for an individual to take away his or her decision on his or her own body. Anyone who disagrees with this during his lifetime or who has not made a different statement may not be affected by this. The length of human life is limited, and that is natural legality. It is fundamental that we also have to respect this natural legality in some way. Of course, marketing is also legitimate and it is right that medicine and medicine help to preserve life and prolong life, but it must absolutely not be at the expense of restricting the fundamental freedom and fundamental dignity of every human being. It is therefore a surprise to me that the Council of State has prepared for this moment a somewhat inconclusive proposal for a law, given that the Council of State, in addition to the proposed role given to it, also has the executive role that only in the legislative process has, as a further reflection on some law with the right of veto and the introduction of a new vote. Here, of course, the Council of State has not considered that that article is in the legislative process, which must be by the nature of its work and by its constitutional rights the most cautious and one of the last filters. In addition to some of the concerns I have read since the introduction of this law, and from medical circles, there are other concerns about possible abuses. Above all, I am also interested in being a naturalist, but I did not care about which human organs are useful after the actual death of a man when he is actually dead. Are these all organs if medicine can make them useful? If the question is that, according to all the criteria of death, a body, say, taken from a dead body, cannot be useful, then the debate about that organ is, in my opinion, superfluous. In another case, such a person, who would actually now be all those who would not object to this, must be euthanised in some way and taken away from the body at a stage where actual death has not yet occurred under all the criteria. What worries me here is that there are always potential abuses and that we must be particularly careful here in this body, or that this systematic doubt must be present in clarifying all of this, that there is no possibility of abuse or that there will be no abuse under the law. Look, at this time, we're witnessing a lot of controversy, as well as unanimity and contention within the medical room. For this reason, I think we must be careful, too, because the chamber will have to achieve a higher level of criticism within itself. It must happen that errors in the system will be recognised and also addressed. We know that during this period the Slovenian public is not convinced that the Medical Chamber itself is able to deal critically with errors, let alone if abuse occurs. There, however, we must be 100% convinced that it is able to react in a uniform manner and oppose it. Abuses, I don't think they happen by the medical department, but abuses in this area of organ transplants, organ donation are happening. Years ago, in the Information Services Supervisory Commission, representatives of our services told us that they noticed that some Asian people from the Far East were travelling across Slovenian territory, stating that they were going to Italy for organ withdrawal, organ donation, of course, for payment, and that they were mostly not returning. At that point, I don't know what Interpol found here, that they were obviously drawn to money, that they would probably give the kidney, and that was the assumption that they would disappear. Even those withdrawals had to be taken away by doctors in Italy or wherever that happened. There's literally been an abuse. It's murder and disembowelment for me. The final answer, or I'm not president anymore, we didn't get it. But that's also what our criminal service and our intelligence services have noticed, and that's what we've been talking about. Since it was previously pointed out that, at some stage in the examination of this law on organs, the position of the market articles has been discussed, I also think that we should be absolutely careful here. Otherwise, it is not good to have fewer donors than the need, but at the same time we must give the basic legitimacy of human life and nature absolutely right. We can't foresee compulsory organ donation with any kind of legal compulsion. We absolutely can't. As a result, I am actually pleased that today's debate is a broader debate. I will not support this marriage alone, because I think there are many too many open dilemmas that are not clarified. And if we did not think about it further, we might adopt a law that would be the basis for certain abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u33	Mr Miran Györek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] I give the floor to Mrs Breda Pečan because she has mistakenly fallen out of line at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must say, it seems important to me that I have the opportunity to express my views on this marriage. I must say that, in order to further explain my position, I am encouraged by the debate or presentation of the position of the SDS Group, Dr. Tisla, because what he said made it possible for us to know, in fact, that if we do not agree as individuals or as a group, but not as Members, of course, by determining the donor on the basis of the assumption that he agrees, given the opportunity for any potential donor to reject the donation of his organs after death, he can be guddled to what is happening today. Now I'll tell you from my own experience. I'm an active blood donor, and unlike my colleague Silva Montenegro, I didn't even know it was necessary to register as an organ donor after my death at a blood transfusion station, say, in Ljubljana, where I give blood. I found out the last time I accidentally had my donor card in my hand, but it was signed long before the current card was signed and placed in my wallet. The question is, would you, for example, die in a car accident, this card anyone saw and knew - well, if any of my organs were useful at all, but let's just leave it, it's a matter of years or an 'amsoe', as we say, at home. Why am I talking about this? I speak because one percent of potential donors is a disgrace and a disaster for this country. Because of the fact that, despite the fact that we have been married for 10 years, even though we have a renewed instruction for seven years, we have not been able to initiate any movement among people - I speak mainly among the people who are authorized in the instruction; empowered to inform potential donors and ask them whether they are willing to be registered in the donor register, not the potential, but the donors. General doctors are written, private doctors, Red Cross Transfusion Station, Karitas, all alive what we have in the field of humanitarian or professional health, we have recorded as places where people can sign up or declare the will of the donor - and nothing happens! Since 2003, I have been given the instructions, but several times before a doctor, maybe twice, three times – I have no idea because I walk very few times. But every time my doctor had a chance to ask me if I was willing to sign a statement that I was a donor. Why didn't he ask me? Every time I was at a transfusion station, they might ask me if I was ready to sign a statement that I was ready to donate an organ. Every time. Well? No wonder the Transplant and the State Council decided to file a law in which the reverse procedure was made. So if you don't want to be a donor, tell me you don't want to be a donor. I mean, I personally take it that's better. Here I cannot speak on behalf of neither the parliamentary group nor citizens of Slovenia, but on my behalf and also on behalf of quite a few members of my wider family, I can say that this is a better way. Because then there are many more potential donors. In any event, this bill provides that family members of the deceased must say whether this assumes that the deceased is a donor or not. So it is still possible to verify, and it is also in the criminal code, as well as the government's opinion states - I must say that the government's opinion is very unusual, but let's leave it. It states that before performing a transplant, the doctor must verify that the person who would have taken her organ, the deceased and the recipient person - both must agree, it must be previously established that he is a donor and the recipient, that he is ready to accept the organ. It is said that he must win every time and this is the provision of the penal code. To the doubt of the Government that this proposed law is contrary to the criminal law, however, it is attractive to hair, as it is known that if the principle were to be turned upside down, if I said so at home, the criminal code should also be adapted. I think it's "a bit silly" to write one of the fundamental reasons why the government disagrees with the law. Second. It's about when the government talks about what the ethics commission thinks. The ethical commission did not oppose the law. The ethical commission only warned that the proposed amendments to the law should be thoroughly informed by the professional and other public. And the comment, of course, is very logical that with inappropriate introduction of changes could lead to general mistrust in this kind of branch of medicine and achieve the opposite effect of expected. Third time. The opinion of the Government refers to Article 35 of the Constitution. Article 35 of the Constitution speaks mainly or 99% of the population. If I read to you what it says, I must say that I am abusing the Constitution for such purposes, but it seems questionable to me, the protection of rights and personal rights is the subtitle of this article: "The integrity of the human body and mental integrity, its privacy and personal rights is guaranteed." I don't see that it would be primarily for the dead, but it certainly is for the living, because unfortunately we can't talk about mentality anymore. Don't take me for a radical. I fully understand people who oppose organ transplantation, people who oppose the taking of other people's blood. We know there are such beliefs. Not only do they not want to give blood, but they also don't want it for the price of their own lives. I fully respect that kind of thinking. However, the proportion of people in the entire Slovenian population is certainly much smaller than those who oppose these interventions than those who approve them. The passive awareness that it would be good to go somewhere and say that after their death they would also like to be donors is very widespread between Slovenians and Slovenians, I am 100% sure of it. The only problem is that you have to go somewhere so those who have an interest don't come to me and ask me, "Listen, what do you think, would you sign, do you want a card, do you want us to write your new medical card with a magnetic record that you're a donor?" All these things need to be done, because if we don't do this, we're not going to do anything, and we're still only going to stay at 1% of the potential donors. I'll say something else. When the Government or the Minister of Health issued a directive in 2003, whether he and his team remembered his successors and the people who had been on this team all along and still had to check what was actually going on each year. Why do all these listed organizations and individuals, doctors do nothing to register potential donors? What is happening in this country that the rules that we adopt on a totally humanitarian basis, the rules that show how good society, what high values we have in our country, why do we not do anything to enforce these high values in order to realize them? We have not established ourselves in the sense that we speak and do nothing. For this reason, this law, regardless of the fact that I am well aware that it will not be fully supported, I will undermine it, and I will also ask the Minister, at the right time, the question sent, to find out what the steps and progress are in the implementation of the current directive and the law and what is happening in the area of the drafting of the new law, if it is really necessary for us to adopt it, if we know - now that we are discussing it, we see how we have done nothing at this time, in seven years. Here I must say that I can, too, be demeaning - because right, only personal negligence can the organisation, the system also eliminate. And here, I ask you nicely, as a lesson from today's debate, Minister and Fellow - the first thing is, come on, now I'm going to say, as I know how to say at home, "screw the ass of those who don't do anything." That's what you have in your hands. Once again, I will vote against the decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The Minister, Dr. Dorian Marusich, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u36	Dear Members and Members. I'm pleased to discuss it. You've given me a lot of guidance to work in the future, and he also commits himself to trying to put the most of this into action. Maybe I'm just thinking a little bit differently. If we find that something has not been the most successful in the system in seven or ten years - my thesis, as well as some professional circles in the European space, which act as if the change of law is not the right step. I have highlighted this several times, and I also have expert recommendations that speak in this direction. So I completely agree, yes, but there's a lot to be done in the system. Today's debate, I hope that it will also take place in Slovenia, that each look into the mirror, I myself in these days have repeatedly asked this very question. However, it would be good to say that whenever we present an official opinion, we need to be precise. There are two committees with an adjective "ethical" which are in this area. So one is the one that's directly linked to the transplant system, that's the Ethical Transplant Commission -- that's for. However, what I find very helpful and in today's debate is that, in the last paragraph, it is said that "When considering changes, the members of the Commission of Law Amendments specifically pointed out that there is a need to keep the experts and the rest of the public thoroughly informed about the changes envisaged, because by making changes inappropriately, they could cause general mistrust in medicine and achieve the opposite effect of what is expected." On the other hand, extremely appreciated in my eyes, Professor Jože Trontel, President of the Commission on Medical Ethics, is separated from his colleague on this committee and then with the committee I will discuss and say - I will take this out of the context, but I can give you the whole debate - he says: "We considered that the principle already contained in the current law and that the proposal for amendments is ethically acceptable and in accordance with the Oviet Convention and its protocol on transposing organs and tissues of human origin..." and so on. So in these four, five days, when I've been thinking about how I'm going to deal with you today and debate, I think we need to make changes to the system first. I completely agree, I very rarely go to the doctor myself, but I never got this invitation, and it will have to be moved to the environment where there is more contact. And probably a lot more to do on popularization. If, in fact, I reiterate, 80%, 90% of the Slovenians for the donation process, let this be said in some way. However, as I have already pointed out twice, I will have to introduce this because this will be required by the European Union Directive, which does not lead uniformly to this solution, which this law has, but mainly stresses the quality and security of which many of you have been talking about today, the danger of possible trade with authorities. In short, I am grateful for the debate and your views. You can see that views are not politically bound, but are primarily personal and that we may need to apply our values to Slovenians and Slovenians. I would like to reiterate the importance of systemic change - indeed thanks to all that they have done in this area in ten years - and perhaps by means of a public debate to find out what consensus would be. To conclude, in fact, in the ten years that we have acquired the organs, we have acquired them on the basis of passive consent. And if we had a broader consensus on this, perhaps more relatives would allow and gain more organs. I doubt that only an increase in active donors would increase this, perhaps show a greater willingness of the Slovenes and Slovenes to do so, but in fact the current law - and here I am glad that Professor Trontel has also highlighted this in some way - good and the system needs to be installed. The law will have to change because of the European directive. Allow me to gain so much time to implement the European Directive and to upgrade the law from today's debate and through public debate by re-inserting us or maintaining us where we are, at a high level in Europe, in the field of organ donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think that today is one of those debates that we can actually mark as human. It's not political, it's not ideological, we're talking about issues that have an ethical dimension that have a completely practical, useful dimension. I would also like to join all those debaters who believe that this proposal for a law based on the Transplant initiative is important. It is particularly important because it launches a debate and confronts us with the fact that, unfortunately, despite all efforts and work at the moment, as well as a relatively good law that makes it possible, the percentage of potential active donors is still extremely low. In fact, one percent of the population says that the majority of the public are not informed or aware of this issue, which is one of the key human issues, that is, how to dispose of their bodies and how to help others in solidarity, to the extent that you are given this option, but you do not determine in time how to define it during life. Of course, the law offers automaticism, which opens a broad debate on ethical dilemmas, whether it is appropriate or even constitutional. But the fact that this debate and this thinking are in this way encourages us to make the changes that are obviously necessary, as the Minister says, in the system or, as fellow Members of the SD say, in informing the public, in particular to the public. I myself have been the bearer of this famous donor card for 10 years. I won it in 2000. But how? It was an accident. Because I have friends and I have a friend who can only survive twice because of a gifted organ. And not in Slovenia, but abroad. I have quite some such knowledge, and because of these friendly relations and conversations I have made with them, I have come to know and have been informed of this possibility. I don't understand why we don't have a more active approach in the healthcare system, for example; in the preparation of the patient's chart, however, the doctor should put somewhere more active and allow the patient to be informed first; for the second time in the chart, it could be written whether a patient is an active and informed healthcare user. So the capillary should allow in fact that every citizen who uses our health services is informed of this and, if he so wishes, actively approaches it. Because I think if there was more information, there would be more definition. And perhaps there would be no need for such legal proposals as would be left in the current situation, as is true colleague Breda - I think the system proposed by the Transplant would be better than the current ignorance. And I am joining this, even though I am aware that we are interfering in an area that requires a broader, more thorough discussion, because it is also an intervention, in the presence of a body beyond the will that we do not know, that dead man. The fact is, in the current legislation, the possibility of changing this will is left to the family. That seems a little questionable to me. If the position, the opinion of the donor person in life were given, I think that this position must be sacred, untouchable, and no one should have the right to interfere with his decision. So, to summarise: first of all, I would like to see that this debate will include thinking and informing the importance of organ donation to the public, that the public will understand this debate and also the proposal for a law possessed by the State Council, but that it comes from the efforts of those active in this field to become a really important topic and that this will actually contribute to greater identification and clearer identification of citizens and citizens. I call on all those who are watching us to identify and, by their own conscience, try to contribute to this crucial solidarity move, because if we have something good in our body and it can save our lives, I think it is ethically right to think about it and to define ourselves positively. So, as many cards as possible, as many applications as possible. I believe and believe that the ministry will understand and, in fact, implement all that we are advising and proposing today. Until marriage itself, I define myself conditionally positive. I think that if this law is primarily aimed at the system and improving information, it is welcome, although it will not continue to be in this form, but I hope that with European directives and our contributions we will raise the level of our legislation and, above all, the system of implementation of this legislation to the level of best European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I myself understand this proposed law on the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body due to the treatment proposed by the State Council as well-intentioned. However, I have serious problems with this law alone and our parliamentary group. It's probably constitutionally controversial matter. It is certainly a matter of individual autonomy, dignity and, above all, the inviolability of each individual’s body. Last but not least, it's human rights. It is also a serious moral and ethical issue. It is true that in Slovenia we have a lack of organs for our own needs, but I believe that we should solve this problem in a different, more humane and more dignified way. And this way is the only and only voluntary decision of each individual on what can happen to his body after he dies. So the response to the lack of organs in Slovenia can be in volunteerism, of course, properly encouraged, in various ways, and perhaps encouraged by the country. This means that we need significantly more information and awareness, i.e. a more active approach at all levels, probably even in health care. Otherwise, at this point, we simply cannot think and think. For example, we have an excellently organized voluntary blood supply. Many times, this bloodstream system also envy us in much more developed countries than Slovenia. But I can't imagine what the matter would look like if the blood supply were mandatory, but maybe it's not exactly the same or comparable matter, though. I do not hope to speculate about such and other abuses that we are witnessing and that we are practically seeing every day in the media, serious abuses. I don't know if that would be a good thing if that happened to us. In my opinion, we can't and can't treat a half-dead person or a dead person - because I don't know how to define it, because we're on very slippery ground - as some kind of waste with many spare parts if he doesn't want it. I think it must be a voluntary and intimate decision of each individual to decide on it. It would be good for as many people as possible to decide on this matter, so we need information, information, awareness that it is good to save human lives. That is how I feel about volunteering, so this law itself, simply, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President. I am convinced that all developments and needs in a specific area should be followed when amending all laws, and in this respect I would not even oppose this proposal for a law. On the other hand, it raises some questions of ethical nature or some questions that we are actually interfering with such legislation in a very sensitive matter, very sensitive in terms of ethics, and that is why I am not leaning towards such quick solutions and proposals. Here, without contesting anything to the Council of State, it is clear that it has a proposed role, but it seems to me that it has undertaken or is exercising its proposed role in an area where there is a need for a broader, professional opinion and where the Council of State may not be in a position or is not in a position to respond to all the requirements related to this particular matter. In other words, it seems natural to me that a proposal for such a law would be proposed by the Government, which also has all the other expertise and other resources at its disposal so that it can prepare an appropriate proposal in a qualitative manner. I am also not sure that in cases where we find that things do not go in the right direction in real life or that things do not go in the right way, or that things do not go in the right way as they should, and then the law should be changed. She said earlier that this law already gives sufficient reasons to encourage activity, the specific activity of the Ministry of Health and other professional institutions, institutions that could be more active in the field of the implementation of this national programme through the transfer of human organs, in order to stimulate people to a greater degree, to decide that they would already be willing to donate their organs in the event of death for the purposes of transplantation of human organs and treatment. I am sure that the matter is not so simple if we decided on this assumption, on this assumption, and that it would be sufficiently true in our cultural area, if only this mechanism were available, to express itself against this intention of going to register its purpose against or to register as one that opposes the donation of its organs. You know that two decades ago, or more ago, we had different, very different ones, but today we have views of whether to bury a dead person as we did before, buried in history, or acceptable and culturally acceptable in our space of cremation. In this area, we have made a long journey and today, in fact, there are few who insist on this traditional burial. So it's also some things that take some time and, of course, require a broader consensus on things. Here I would recall that within the Council of Europe there has been some very important activity for a number of years, which is also very important in connection with this law, we also have some conventions in this area, and the European Convention on the Transplantation of Human Organs has already been mentioned, and also in these expert committees in the Council of Europe, Prof. Dr. Akade has been very actively involved all these years. The throne and it would be a shame if we did not draw some conclusions from that set of findings, some stages of development, too, when we create our own legislation, some useful ideas and some standards that have already been established in Europe. After all, we will also gather these, if I say ugly, transplanting bodies in this wider European space, and therefore not only are we to consider what is appropriate and appropriate for our space, but we must also, of course, reflect on what is what we can agree on in the wider European space. I would therefore like to draw attention to this rich treasure of some of the knowledge, some of the consensus that has already been reached within the Council of Europe. Finally, let me remind you that, even within the Council of Europe, there has been and is still a very lively debate on euthanasia, where it is also kind of a border area, and that, despite the fact that we are all aware that there is no point in preserving in the life of a person who is not actually living anymore, we have not been able to unify ourselves within the Council of Europe that euthanasia is generally acceptable to the entire European cultural space. I would just like to point out that this is actually a very delicate issue, subject to ethics, and I agree with those who here also draw attention to the constitutional aspect of this issue and to the protection of human rights. They're not things you could just take off with a swing of your hand. And in this context, I am convinced that, even within the framework of the European Union, the institutions of the European Union, there will be a very strong debate on this issue, and there our representatives will also be able to contribute constructively to continue to reach some higher standards if I can conditionally say higher - because the question is, what is the high and what is the low standard in this area - so that we can also actively contribute to the creation of an appropriate directive. But I have to say, I wouldn't mind assuming that everyone agrees. But we know that in our citizens we are also citizens and citizens who come from some different cultural traditions, different views on these things, and that is why I think such a marriage would be a force in this area - I would just hope to say that it would be a kind of coercion - to be appropriate. That is why I would first, as my colleague has already said, stress the importance of deciding here to take some accelerated action in encouraging people to decide that they are already allowing their authorities to use their organs during their lifetime to raise awareness of these things. But I'm not sure that changing the law is exactly the magic wand that can solve this problem. That is why, of course, I would not go there to underestimate the good intentions of the State Council, and I would also like to thank him for actually putting this topic on the agenda. However, I am convinced that this is such a difficult thing that the Government will make it easier to make an appropriate change of law in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u44	Nice greeting to all present, Mr. Secretary. You yourself have already expressed, in your implementation a certain caution and time for reflection. The European Directive. We do not know exactly what the debate will be, but I am also sure, given the composition of the European Parliament, that ethical aspects will be given great emphasis and let us wait. In short, we are talking about the ethical dimension, about human rights and the purely practical needs for parts of the body, the organs that we also need for the living. See, the attitude towards ethical issues; ethics as an object of teaching at the Faculty of Philosophy or at theological or other, and shows us that there are actually no uniform explanations, uniform answers. Yes kind of dilemma: from culture to civilization to purely theoretical origins. Interestingly, our prominent philosopher, Dr. Tina Hribar, speaks of universal ethics, which includes an equal attitude toward dignity. He's also talking about burying the dead. This aspect shows that when a person dies, it is said to die that he is no longer an entity that is, in fact, decided by others that there is a need to respect the relationship, including with the deceased. The first is that the entity itself actually decides what its later destiny will be. We can't get past that dimension. From this point of view, I think, past some kind of individual agreement - we cannot go through this agreement. Of course, there will be a dilemma, a controversy between human rights experts and lawyers. Whether it was because someone did not object or that he did not say that he did not agree, whether it was enough or should actually require a positive consent. Here's what I think is a key dilemma. Is it sufficient for the right to have parts of the body that someone has not stated that it is explicitly opposed? I think it's too small to have to look for solutions in this direction to make an individual, this use, every person, actively express himself in the course of his life about whether he is willing to make a donation. Only this passive position, which may be advocated by some legal theory, is insufficient in this case. Of course, the question now is how will we come to this positive consensus, in what way not to complicate matters to the absurdity that would require of an individual, I don't know, some kind of specific activity that would be an obstacle to gaining his consent. Without consensus, however, I think that this would not be the right approach and that we should think more in this direction, in what way, as easily as possible, we would come to this positive consensus on whether an individual would agree to have his body at his disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Once again, hello to everyone. I must say that I am saddened by the lack of confidence, at least for some, in the work of doctors, in the medical system, even in this area of transplantation or in the seizure of organs to dead patients or injured persons. However, it is always a group of doctors, consuls - also Mr. Minister, who has worked in this area in the very nearness of deciding when the patient's clinical death or injury is taking place, because the authorities are not just picking up on the road. This is the final phase of the patient or the injured person who is in the intensive medicine department and then is a brain death, but the blood flow must still work, otherwise it is not appropriate to take organs to be good for transplantation. And this consul, when it says so, are the experts themselves with [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] different areas and are not in conflict with those doctors who are treating, and not with those who are then transplanting. [[...]] And maybe another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want a word? He doesn't want to. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah, we got two applications. Anybody else want me to sign up? We'll file a complaint so there won't be a request. [[...]] Both discussers have five minutes to discuss. Please, the first is Mr. Andrej Magajna. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u48	In my previous implementation, I warned more about the general dilemmas, but then I received a call or text from a fellow Christian socialist who was among the volunteers in the recent campaign, but it was a bone marrow for some action that would serve a girl with cancer on her bone marrow. But there is another dilemma - I don't know exactly - that's where many donors responded, and the problem was that when we got some information from the institutions, now I don't know how real this is, that the problem would be that all the samples that they were going to process would also be analyzed by DNA analysis, which is a certain cost. We also need to pay attention to these matters when we have enough donors, and we will not have the means to properly analyse, store and use them later. And also this aspect, a purely practical aspect, when we are preparing legislation, we need to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I would just like to complement, perhaps the aspect that we have not said in this very broad public debate today, namely, it is nice to quote Article 35 of the Constitution, namely, the protection of human rights, the protection of privacy and personal rights, but precisely because this article is very broad and because the legal profession in this area is very, very much said and in fact also written, I would like to say once again how important it is to go in this segment in principle of consent and not in principle against. The legal profession is in principle against, that is to say, we expect individuals and individuals to define themselves against. Of course, whenever they are defined against, one time-limit is chosen and within this time-limit they have the opportunity to define themselves against, and after that time-limit it is expected that all those who have not defined against are in favour. But this is a long time ago, one would say, defined, mildly speaking, manipulation because in this time period - how many people had no opportunity to be informed that they could be defined against. That is why I do not think that we would, however, maintain a system that we call personal identification and say that it is for the donation of anything and in any way and in any case and in any case. That is why I actually think it would be good to follow very good practice, but not least the legal professions and the type of books and textbooks that have already said and written a lot in this area. I would not like to mention the case, for example, which we have defined in the National Assembly, which has also defined in this way and thus defined the date when some may have been identified for or against, but the so-called case deleted in the legal profession has shown where it is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today half an hour following the conclusion of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - This is for the continuation of the report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services for the year 2008. We are now in the open part of this sequel. At its 13th meeting, on 2 February 2010, the National Assembly held a public debate on the report of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services, marked with a level of confidentiality, and decided to continue its discussion of the positions and findings of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services after obtaining the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government forwarded the opinion to the assembly by letter of 25 March 2010. By letter of 15 January 2010, you were informed by Members and Members that the State Assembly would be informed of the report and the views and conclusions of the Commission. The Commission did not propose to the National Assembly views and conclusions to improve, say, the functioning of intelligence and security services or to eliminate irregularities in their functioning, but rather to adopt its views and conclusions, which would not be accepted by the National Assembly, since possible rejection and even amendment or addition would result in unacceptable interference with the autonomy of the Commission. We continue the debate. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the views, conclusions of the Commission. Anton Urh. Dushan Kumer. The victory of the noble deer, I'm sorry. The victory of the noble deer has a word, please. We continue the debate of MEPs and Members. The presentation of the positions was already in closed session, when, three, four sessions back.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know, that's when you wouldn't let me talk, and then I went out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u53	You're back, you're back in time, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u54	No, I didn't come back in the middle. I came back to the next item on the agenda. I don't think there's much to say. The fact is that strange things are happening in the field of intelligence services or the use of certain intelligence tools. It listens to, say, 200 to 300,000 Slovenians, with equipment that is the latest and is triggered on certain passwords, certain words, names and similar matters. They're doing something for official institutions. They're doing something for private institutions. He also listens without the judge's permission, just so, in mind, in advance. And then he's back-repairing the paperwork. In short, in Slovenia we are in a strange country, a state of dispersion, a state of government, I could say that if we were not ruled by the current coalition. Nevertheless, we can say that this conduct is more a solution to its own positions than it is to the good of the country. Unlawful means and other means are certainly also used. I think there's been a lot of use of tracking without a judge's permission. They used secret police co-workers in strange ways, which, of course, the police protects them in such a way that they even allow convicted people and legally convicted persons to walk in Slovenia on prison sentences several times and to counter the fact that they are at liberty, bartering people, searching for them, setting up and setting up various things that they could call them, police structures. This is not so small, this is huge, and it is likely that colleagues from certain positions will soon come to know this. Surely no LDS member will be here, and it is unlikely that any of the members of Zares will be members of the Social Democrats. I wouldn't even talk about representatives of the opposition parties. The fact is that these are matters that will need to be discussed, not in the National Assembly, because this must not be discussed here, no specific case must be said. Be assured that we will discuss this in the Council of Europe, and I hope that from the outside they will intervene in Slovenia, at least in the future this will no longer happen. In this area, I think Slovenia is falling very low. To get close to the system that was shut down in Romania immediately after the entry into the European Union, when they replaced 7,000 judges, prosecutors and police officers. We won't be on this for a long time, and we'll probably never be on it, maybe two years from now, when it's gonna have to be really cleaned up. It's hard for me to see the Prime Minister try to put things in order after all. I feel bad that many ministers or ministers work well. But it is bad for me to see that one minister and one minister are actually in control of the whole country and have repressive authorities and those bodies that can then punish this repression. It's a terrible thing. When it's said that we're in a police state, we're actually in a police state. After all, the Minister of Interior's desire to purchase 1,300 protective clothing over a thousand different helmets does not indicate anything but that Mrs Minister is preparing to deal with those who will not blow into her horn. She forgets all the pigs she's done, and I hope that the police investigations will also show something negative on her side, where Slovenia is the year's image, and I don't know what it's all about. The fact is, at the police station, there are honest, hardworking police officers who are sorry, who are sick, who are sick, who do not want this to continue. However, the top of certain bodies is the one that directs, requires, gives commands, sometimes such or other, very rarely written, but mostly such, by the way, only to be fulfilled, and there are always people whom, of course, a certain layer brought to this service, who obey these written or better unwritten orders. I think it's a problem. That we should discuss all of this here, more, more frankly with names, but not stop a man or a lot of people, the chairman of someone who debates, when we can't talk about this person because he's not here. That is said, we must not say anything bad about Adolf Hitler because he is not here, or we must not say anything bad about Joseph Visarjonovich Stalin because he is not here. Well, I don't want to talk about other people, other people who are still alive, who are written about in the papers, but we can't discuss in here because these people aren't here. This is a question of parliamentaryism, this is a question of democracy, this is a question of everything that has long been gone in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. This controversy with me was unnecessary, but still. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Minister, Honourable Director of Sowe and Director of VOM. I will, of course, talk about the draft positions and conclusions that are part of the public hearing and should be based on the report that we have previously discussed. In the Contributed Group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u57	Mr. Kumer, I can interrupt you for just a moment. I would like to remind you, of course, not only of you, that the report of the Commission is secret and not that you would now, but that the report of the Commission is now secret and that the debate on the report is no longer possible, because it is an open meeting but we can only discuss the public conclusions and opinions and conclusions of the Commission. There's only so much to know and please continue. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u58	Yeah, well, that's what it was. My opening statement was about that. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the conclusion that the National Assembly took note of the report on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2008. However, we do not support the conclusions on support for the findings and views of the Commission which are the subject of today's debate. This decision has also been addressed by the opinion of the Government, which is extremely concerned about the justification or linkage of the report on the work of the Commission and the indications in point 2 of the 8th indent of the Opinion and the conclusions. In this section, it is stated, I quote, that the Commission notes that several procedures are under way to secure Webs’s invested financial resources, indicating that a single narrow group within the Sova has established a parallel operating system beyond the applicable rules and regulations, which has reached its peak in the period of Dr. Iztok Podbregar because Sova acted in one part as a political police. End of quote 8th indent of point 2 of the published observations and views. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that there is no basis for such a conclusion in the content of the report. In relation to - calm down, Mr. Gorenak, I will also get you to abuse this too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u59	Please, peace in the hall! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u60	With regard to Webs, I stress that the potential criminal and compensation responsibilities of individuals who have been employed in the Agency in the past are still ongoing. Therefore, any pre-accusation is another of the manners of the current constructive opposition elite. The finding that Sova acted as a political police officer and also the personal information of the person who is supposed to be responsible or even the principal in this qualification is a purely political abuse of the report for the narrow political needs of the authors of this text. If that were true, this would mean that they have hidden all control instruments in the past. Also the Parliamentary, which was run by the SDS at the time, and not only that. As a result of this assessment, Sova served three masters as political police under Dr Podbregar's leadership: Dr Drnovšku, Mag. The robbery and half the term of office of Mr Janez Janša. There are no grounds for such a finding in the report. It is also totally unacceptable that the report mentions even less any specific names in its findings, particularly in the 2008 report, when they mentioned the name of Dr Podbregar, who left the Agency in 2006. This is additional evidence of tendency and another abuse, a grave attack on the privacy of an individual, to which we are already accustomed from individuals of the opposition political elite. Given that it is manipulated by the debate and decisions at the Commission's own meeting, the following - and listen well, Mr Gorenjak. As a member of the Commission, I have made a great deal of effort at the Commission's own meeting in order to have a comprehensive report cleaned, politicised, for the daily policy of practical findings and assessments, especially those that take stock of the work of the former Storm Commission, which have nothing to look for in this parliamentary report, but can be an annex to the report on our work. It is even more unacceptable that we strip them and present them to the public than we do to our findings and position. And because this was not heard, I did not vote in favour of the report, but abstained from the report. He abstained because I agree with the good work of the report, especially the data report. However, since we have also addressed in particular the proposal for conclusions and views on the content of the report, there has been a great deal of discussion about the former, I stress that the former fourth point of the proposal drawn up by the President of the Commission, which has been published, has been cited as follows: "The Act on SGEI was adopted in 1999 and the Agency has gradually acquired powers, which are contrary to the Constitution, since it has exceeded the purpose of Article 21 of the Siva Act for a certain period of time." - end of quote. The members of the commission agreed to my insistence to delete this. With this deletion, I considered that the eighth indent of point 2 was also irrelevant, which, according to the content, was entirely the same, so I voted in favour of other views and conclusions, which were simply a summary of some of the Court's observations. In short, I will repeat once again the repeated position that the Storm government commission, with its control, which has been exercised repeatedly by unauthorized people, and that some members of the Commission have never entered the premises of Owl, has caused enormous damage to national security, which will not be able to repair it for a long time. I sincerely believe that all of these have tried to find all the ugly things that have happened in the past in Owl. It is not good, however, that, in a slightly different workforce, they still have this task today, only that they are now in opposition and have only one goal: to come back to power. And in order for them to succeed, they must first prove that the current authorities are not worthy of a position, that they are unable to cope successfully with the economic and other crisis. That there are liars or at least incompetents sitting in it, and I don't want to mention it. In short, after the current government and coalition, we need to pour as much manure as possible, a lot of manure, because people don't wonder who spilled it, people with their finger point to the ones from which the smell is rolling. But that's another story. Therefore, we do not support these views and conclusions in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u62	All in attendance, all in attendance! I don't want to argue with Mr. Kumra. He's a member of that commission. For some time, however, he had a problem with himself or with his decisions. I just want to clarify some of the inaccuracies that have already been said in the closed part of the session, and again today. I can't take responsibility for the actions of others. I cannot take responsibility for the actions of the Minister and cannot take responsibility for Mr Kumr's actions. At this meeting of the Commission, Mr Kumer supported these positions, all of them, including the one with which he had earlier disputed, because they were adopted unanimously, with all the votes of the members of the Commission. However, the report with no vote against Mr Kumr's abstention, as he said. The report, together with its findings and observations, was from 3. 11 to 12. 11. to review all members of the Commission. So it was all insightful, and everyone could see what the report said and concluded. None of the members of the Commission took advantage of this opportunity. Mr. Anderlich, you and Mr. Kumer went after 12. 11 and before 2. 2. After the Commission has already accepted all this, look twice, while at the time before the Commission has decided, none of the members have looked at it. That is why, of course, this report was introduced to the Commission. There were comments, all those which were forwarded were taken into account and the decision was finally taken. If Mr Kumer disagrees with his decision, then this must be his problem. That can't be my problem. The fact is that the views were adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Replica, Dusan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u64	The President of the Commission - as is sometimes lacking - should be sure of some things - I suggest that he read the closed session of the Commission when we discussed it. There are some things that I have written in this block. And don't tell me that your fourth proposal was not rejected. We have therefore rejected the illegal and unconstitutional functioning of Owl in the past, as stated in the 8th indent, which is an integral part of the remaining seven indents. Please don't waste any more lies here. Again, go back and see the magnetogram. I've got these things written out in my magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u65	Mr. Blackach, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u66	Look, Mr. Kumer. Be sure I've checked everything very carefully and checked it out, especially because it was 2. 2. Having doubts about this, but we are talking about the point, in the conclusions that are here today at this meeting also public, there are also a number of procedures concerning the insurance of the financial assets invested in Webs, which all indicates that a single narrow group within the Owa has established a parallel operating system beyond the applicable rules and regulations and so on, I do not repeat everything. No comments were made at the meeting of the Commission at this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u67	This was now a new debate, so a replica is possible. But I would warn both of you, and I have to take a look at it myself. I just need to be careful not to quote and quote magnetograms that have a confidential character. Please, only matters relating to public proposals, findings, views, conclusions of the Commission. Please, both of you, be within these limits. Replica, Mr. Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u68	I would only ask you once more to read this eighth indent. That's not a special point. The eighth indent of point 2 which is completely at the end and does not fall within the context of the others. It should be read to the end. In the second part, it says which peaked during the period of Dr. Iztok Podbregar, where Sova acted in one part as political police. By deleting 4, your proposal for a decision we cancelled this assessment and this conclusion. Please don't fool me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, as a motioner. Other debaters have also been reported. I'd ask if you both knew that. Please, Mr. Blackach, as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u70	I think Mr Kumer has made it very clear that there was no comment on this point of conclusion. He quoted something else, which we are not talking about here today, which has nothing to do with this independent work, with the final part of the report, which is also a public document.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Yes, the decision is yours, that was the debate. Please, replica, Mr. Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u72	I will repeat this one last time, an integral part of the position proposal and the conclusion was a specific fourth point, which I quoted earlier. It found that it was supposed to act against the Constitution and against the law of Owl, and we unanimously deleted this point. With this we also deleted the eighth indent of point 2 when talking about other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u73	Mr. Blackach, as a motioner. Just a moment, I'd say. I, too, who looked at the report, was the chairman of this commission, cannot now know exactly why it is going: only you know it. Please take this into account. Please, Mr. Blackach, as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u74	By deleting a point in the conclusions, we did not delete any other indent; all others remained in the end. And we voted on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u75	Good. Okay. [[..]] The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Excuse me. The word is by Franz Pukšič. My word is Mira Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the report on the work of the Commission is very interesting. On the one hand, the Government notes that it does not undertake an assessment of the functioning of the state administration authorities which carried out surveillance investigative activities in owls in 2007 and 2008, but the Government also reflects concerns about the work of the Commission. So, it goes into Parliament's work, it goes into the work of the commission, it's easy to allow itself - and it's obviously also allowed - to evaluate Parliament's work. For the government is saying that the findings and conclusions of the Commission do not provide a basis for ensuring that Owl acted as a political police in this part. I feel differently from the Government, I believe that Sova acted as a political police force in a period of time in the Republic of Slovenia. On the one hand, due to the Owl affair, the Criminal Police Department has written a total of 10 criminal charges against known suspects. One criminal complaint was filed against an unknown suspect and they also wrote nine reports. Let us recall that the then President of the Government of 2004 Mr Tone Rop accused Janez Janša and Iv Sanader, the then President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of negotiating incidents in the Gulf of Piran. Mr Tone Rop then said that he had been informed by Mr Iztok Podbregar, then Director of the Sova, orally and through transcripts. All of this is public information, published many times. Also, the fact that the transcript must not be from the seat of the Owl is clear and that the transcript is not relevant for any intelligence information. They also destroy owls. And since Sova was caught in this hearing by a Slovenian citizen, this whole conversation is not relevant and should be destroyed by Sova, because a decree is required to listen to Slovenian citizens. Secret Service intelligence is not only obtained through transcripts, it is also obtained through various other methods, from secret associates, public wiretaps and, of course, other sources. And we know, and this has also been published publicly, that there was no intelligence on the subject of Janša - Sanader. We've heard this a number of times and read it. It is also interesting what has been published publicly in Mladina, from 15 September to 3 parliamentary elections. Ten. 2004 Mr Iztok Podbregar visited the Government several times, at least four times. That's recorded. He had access with a special card and was free to move around this building. Access to government premises in Gregorčičov 20 had two more people. This was also made public in the media. At that time, one of them was entered into the register of visits 72 times. One of Owl's coworkers was given a hearing of Janša - Sanader in rooms on Gregorčičeva 20 from 8 a.m. 36 minutes to 16 a.m. 45 minutes in the afternoon. And Mr Iztok Podbregar was also included in the register of his visit to the Government on 29 September 2004, just days before the state elections. The former Director of Sowe informed Mr Tonet Rope about all this, but he did not, for example, inform Dr Janez Drnovšek, who was then President of the State. In short, Janša - Sanader is simply not in the set of documents that Sova would consider relevant to relations with the Republic of Croatia, and this transcript was carried directly to the Government by Mr Podbregar to Mr Tonet Rope. In 2007 and 2008, the Attorney General's Office filed four requests against former Director Sova for an investigation or for an extension of the investigation for six offences of abuse of official office or official rights. In 2009, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office tabled an additional indictment for unjustified use in the service under Article 264 of the Penal Code. In order to repay unlawfully deducted tax assets in connection with the operation of the former Director of the Sova, the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia, at the Labour and Social Court, filed an action for reimbursement of the amount of EUR 61 000. At the same time, it is necessary to add that the Ljubljana District Court of Records, in the case of Sova, has ordered the most outstanding cases. And all cases relating to the sova affair, which was in early 2007 in the Slovenian political and social space of the couple of excellence, were identified by this court in Ljubljana as a non-priority case, and these files are in this court. The judge has not touched these files in the last year. Maybe he's waiting for an outage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u78	It's going fast. It seems that the will has given in, and counting that all that is written here is true, and that we will get to know it, and the National Assembly in some way also confirms what is meant to be written. I would, of course, be more pleased with the decision taken and rejected by the National Assembly, which is not based on actual findings. I looked twice at this document because I could not believe that such structures could be made in this report and in these conclusions, which had nothing to do with the events that were at that time. For example, it is very interesting to drag some things out a long way back in order to conclude on the political police. But don't tell anyone that the so-called Storm Commission for the work of the Owl went to work to justify the work of the director of that time, say, Shinkovec, and the invasion of Lavrich into Sovo and so on. This is nowhere, and this is far from what the report should contain. Nothing about some of the things that the ODS should do, even more, this is about a song. It is known who wrote and cannot be different, even though it is known that this service did not report the purchase of a listening device, but they have accused the Member and will go to court for this. What manipulation. On the one hand, not all things are bad about those who are supposed to do something, but about those who have served this political option, all things are most beautiful. There is no reflection of what is possible, what we know and what can be read from the documentation in these conclusions. There was nothing about Patricia, but the ODS was there all along. He knew about the irregularities, but nothing in this report. Nothing. So there are things that this Parliament simply has to reject. The government’s findings, the government’s findings - the National Assembly - also required that the Government be defined on the points in these conclusions or, as it is called, the conclusions, the views [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u79	My friend Anderlich, I don't think it's just limited to a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u80	I have not spoken of any matter which is not public, nor of any matter which is not public and which does not concern the proposals of the conclusions, opinions and conclusions of the Commission or has not been published in the means of public information. The fact that I've been accused of being me and that I'm in court and I'm going to have a debate, but it's also public, of course I can speak as far as I'm concerned. Here, I guess, that's a good idea. It's public, not secret. You know that everything has been published, but I cannot believe that points 6, 7, 8 and 9 can find such an assessment, such findings of the work of this service. That's not true. Go take a look. Even the president, you, and the rest of you, who are in the quiet room, and you'll be able to figure out that there are different things. There's not a single conclusion that should be in here. So, of course, the dispatch, for example, which was founded and defined, is not about you, but about part of another job, but about Patrio, but about how, why, where are these things, you don't write about it anywhere, not in that. I would really like to ask the President of the Commission, because, of course, those who are not members, we must trust the President and the Commission that, on our behalf, they manage this work on behalf of the entire assembly, as we do in some other working bodies. I would really ask him if you had drawn this report for the period before 2008, although it is already disputed here that you are reporting and drawing out findings from a period when you did not carry out this activity, but another commission was doing so under other guidance. In what way did you selectively do so, for example, that the management of this service for the time of Mr Šinkovec and also illegal employment and certain other things have shown themselves. Some employee who dated this director of the Owl [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Through the Owl then to the Foreign Ministry or vice versa, nothing about it and I wonder why such selectivity in these observations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much. What is not and what has not been found cannot, of course, be that in the report Mr Anderlich. The report contains almost 100 pages and is of a confidential nature, because of this details I cannot talk about here today because you have been in the quiet room twice and you have obviously read it and you know that today you have said something you do not hold. You said it wasn't about Patricia. The report says about Patricia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u83	Black guy, nothing on the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u84	Obviously, it doesn't say -- it's no confidential information -- but apparently, the report doesn't say what you want it to say. In my opinion and in all the documentation available to the Commission against Mr Šinkovec and Mr Lavrih, they have not been submitted in relation to the irregularities that have been found in Owl in the past years, no procedures, and we cannot do so, you cannot expect that we will then write something that is not in the report. However, in a systematic way, what has happened during this period has been defined in all areas, both with regard to the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency and with regard to the OASA and with regard to the police in the area where the Commission has competence over electronic communications operators. I understand that individuals are in pain because some of the names that are politically close to them, or they have recently been politically enforced, are disturbing to mention. But it's not the commission that's responsible, and it's not the commission's chairman who's responsible. This was the responsibility of those who did not do what they were paid for during the period in which they were held responsible and who understood their function differently and, if the authorities responsible for detecting such behaviour found that to be the case. And here we have a lot of bodies that have discovered this, from the police, to the Court of Auditors, to the Anti-Corruption Commission, to the government or the government group. Of course, the Commission cannot overlook this in its report and is obliged to write this down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Respectable. Here we now have a hearing on the Commission's views, and I am pleased that the Commission has written down such views that, in the context of what can be made public and debated, there is also an open view of the functioning of the intelligence services. I have some experience with the surveillance of intelligence services myself. I was a long time member and then President of the Supervisory Commission from 2000 to 2004. I have always been aware of this, and I have also pointed out publicly that the problem of parliamentary supervision is that we are supervisors, especially due to narrow professional support, because of limited possibilities, always a step for informants, such as criminals, usually a step or two behind those who commit criminal acts. It's a constant problem. But an even bigger problem is if the commission or those who are supervisors encounter examples that increase the lack of confidence in the work of the service. I must say that when I was President, I was convinced that we were very close to trusting supervisors in the work of the service and that the services were on the way to a truly quality, professional work in the interests of the state. In fact, they are empowered to collect the information required for the State within the framework of legal options, within the framework of what is permitted by judicial decisions. However, in the next term, when Owa’s affair broke out, it appeared that the President of the opposition had been controlled or not by the opposition, the Prime Minister of the Government. And I saw that during that period of commission that I led alone, the services did not tell us everything, the leadership of the Owl who informed us. In fact, we've never been informed of hidden locations. And I think that those hidden locations should be presented in a special way to the monitoring commission. This was crystallized only when Mr Rop made those things public and when Dnevnik published some secret location and then another secret location in Ljubljana. That's when I started to look at things differently - to hold what is also written in these positions that "everything indicates that a single narrow group within the Owl has established a parallel operating system beyond the applicable rules and regulations." This became evident at the time - that part of this service, for example, Owl, primarily focuses on the Owl, acted as a para-intelligence service, outside the control of the summit. And I must say, if I am now doing one reflection back, that even when Mr Podbregar came to be the director of this service, he had been neglected for a long time, not because he had no ability, but because the committee saw that others were controlling him, that in fact some Owl operatives were testing the director who was sent, whether he was ideologically appropriate. Look, some experience in this, I can say this now, when I was president of the Commission once in an interview with the then President of the Government, Mr Drnovšk, we talked, I reported to him that the members of the Commission, or at least two members of the Commission, who belonged to the government parties, were extremely reluctant to do so, to the legality of the work of the intelligence service in connection with the wiretap. They were firmly convinced that Owl, and perhaps also the criminal service, was listening to Members and that in fact government Members and Prime Minister were sometimes critical. This was at the time when Mr Lavrenčič was appointed Director, who had not worked before and came to the beginning untapped for this job. And Mr Drnovšek said, be aware that there is a great opposition here to the then director, whom he appointed by the old forces, the dogmatic forces. I was surprised that the Prime Minister of the Government trusted me so much and we talked a lot. A lot of things I didn't know, he told me how it works in here, even in a para-state way. And I have seen the clear opinion expressed by President Drnovšk that he may also be listened to and that he is also covered in other ways, and that some of the old members and some of the parts of the service that are separated from inside the office are playing para-intelligence. And this was crystallized in the next term when there was an exchange of power, when they simply could no longer bear to use the information obtained in this way politically. And they used them. And I have to say, I don't know how. In my previous term, after the law had changed, I was a re-member of the Commission for three months when the Commission was extended. That's when we took control of the Owl. Mr President, you were then President of this Commission, and I must say this, it is clear that we have never been equal members of the Commission according to the information we have received. As President, I have never received any more classified information than written information from anyone entering the premises of the Owl. When we went to the surveillance room, my colleague Kumer said, "Put us on the table yesterday at 11:00 or show us the cameras who's at 11:00 yesterday. - it was Sunday, walked through the door of the Owl." I'm the one who's been frisked so one of the MPs knows. Then, of course, he was the one who actually criminalized him, in some way he actually entered. But that's outrageous. It is unheard of that one committee member or one Member has special intelligence from the Soviet Union. I was frayed at the time, and eight years ago, a member of the Supervisory Commission for 4 years ago, the president had not had this dedicated role in informing me of anything special. Although at the time when I was in law, we wrote in the law that members of intelligence services could, I think, are still in law, coming, reporting to the Commission, for example, on illegal events without the possibility of having any sanctions for this. But we also announced this possibility during the parliamentary debate at that time, and it did not happen. I hope these services, which are now cleared of these old mentalities of former services, political services, otherwise still functioning in a certain segment, political police. I hope that former members of these committees are not served with specific information today. And that's why I've been so much more stressed today by those who have actually run these services in the past and actually promoted or approved human rights violations. Here is the fundamental dilemma, can we trust our jobs today? I also remember that we once went to the archives, found that in the archives [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] There are many things missing from the mandate that Mr Žumer, the director of the archive, said in an interview, that archives are being cleaned and that they do not have access, that systematically from the state authorities, is being prevented from going to Belgrade, that what Serbs did when the agreement was not yet allowed, and that the Belgrade archives are being cleaned up so that nothing related to postwar killings or such a thing could happen in Slovenia and was immediately replaced, Mr Žumer. [[...]] And he warned of a positive thing. A parallel now with the state's attorney, when she wanted something not to go under the carpet, she became undesirable, they went straight to replace it, overnight. And here are these bad practices that are obviously present in this country. And who on the part of these authorities today can ensure that this is not happening? I don't blame the former directors I worked with. I don't blame them. It seems to me, for example, that Mr Lovrenčič had a sincere desire to settle this matter, and I am also sure that the current director. But I've heard that the current director doesn't fit one anymore, that he needs to be replaced. Who are you gonna set up? Who? One who will be able to ensure the political functioning of the intelligence service. I think that the intelligence services have now cleared up slightly after all this school hours in the previous term and are working in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I can't discuss this town, you know that. I would say that I was talking to Mr Drnovsk when he was president of the country, also about how certain documents for his discreditation were found on the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but let's leave it. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Franco Yuri. [[He won't discuss it.]] Tvonko Černač kor a discusser in the SDS Group of Members. You have 7 minutes left for you by your colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I think that the way the Commission took it this time, I must say, for the first time in this case, when it divided the report into two parts, is that the part where the disclosure of which could be harmful to the country or to individuals and to other parts where there is no such danger has taken an important step towards democratising our society. You won't be in power forever, we won't be in the opposition forever. And this path, which the Commission is pursuing in this mandate, is very important for all the following mandates, because in every democratic society the control mechanisms are extremely important and it is extremely important that the controls in these control mechanisms are of other importance, such as those which have control of the authority or which have power. Of course, it is also very important, and I think that the degree of democratisation of every society is also shown, that there is as much as possible of what there is no reason for it to be confidential, secret, internal, that it is public. All totalitarian systems have carried out various tasks through the concealment of individual data, and more than that, the lower the level of democratisation of society. Unfortunately, during the last period in Slovenia there have been some strange stories about the fact that the government wants to expand the field of confidence where it is not necessary. We have had quite a few cases in the last year when there was talk in the public about a magnetogram of a conversation about Croatia, the presidents of the customers who became, after the public talk about it on television, a few days or weeks later. These are abuses which must be avoided in every way and which constitute a deviation from the democratisation of society. We have also heard something similar today in this Chamber when it is being tried, I would say, in any way show that it is not possible to discuss a particular matter, which is supposed to mean that it is a secret matter. And the Commission, when deciding and at this point, also decided unanimously that this final part, the conclusions of the opinion open to the public, would be decided unanimously. I think there is a very important contribution here to the further consideration of reports in the coming years. It is interesting what happened then, and this arouses amazement and concern. Who are we? 2. consider the report in secret and when, on a proposal from the LDS Member, there has been an interruption of this point and requires that the opinion of the Government, which we have also received, be obtained. It was adopted on 25 March at a meeting when the Prime Minister was not present. At the same meeting, this well-known decision on the retention of parliamentary control was adopted to determine the position of the Parliamentary Supervisory Commission. There is no basis for that, not by law or by law. Even the president of the National Assembly explained in the introduction that the National Assembly would not comment on this, today because it would intervene in the matter or competence of the Commission. So the National Assembly has taken this responsibility to decide, and the government has determined to do so. I must say this, it is not the best travel and it points in some way to the misunderstanding of the function of parliamentary control. What else is very important in parliamentary supervision? Not to raise doubts in public about its need, its relevance, which has been done several times in the last period, in a false way. For example, the Minister of the Interior has publicly accused me and Mr Gorenak, who is also a member of this Commission, of walking through police administrations and of looking into specific procedures. Neither is true. The authorised group of the Commission, in which the opposition and the coalition are always representatives, has the right to control specific measures, does not constitute any concrete procedures, and so has been the case in this case. And in one case, I wasn't even in this surveillance. In short, the public has received a very important signal that we from the SDS are said to be reviewing specific police procedures. That's very bad. This has done a great deal to damage parliamentary control. I've also informed the President of the Government of this matter, and I haven't received an answer. In view of the latest developments, I will obviously be forced to inform institutions outside our country, because I think that parliamentary supervision should be safeguarded if we do not want this society to start to change again into a totalitarian society where no one will be allowed to say anything if the person who is in power does not want to hear it. We must never let that happen. We must not allow anyone who is in power to say that someone has violated the Constitution, and he has violated it because he has said so and no one in this society has the right to oppose it. On the other hand, we should not allow ourselves to be wronged if we are to talk through the committees about it in order to prevent it from happening because it would harm individuals in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. He wants the word of the government, Minister? Miss Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Three points are of a kind where please allow me to comment or point them out. As it is to feel that there is some doubt in the Government's awareness of the legitimacy of parliamentary control, let me say that the Government is very well aware of the needs, legitimacy, adequacy and necessity of parliamentary control over the functioning of the executive branch and, in particular, the functioning of the intelligence and security services. However, when it comes to the issue of the report or these open, public views, the Commission's findings and conclusions on the supervision of security and intelligence services, this is Assembly 2. He also wanted to hear the government's opinion this year. And with the opinion we wrote as the Government, we did not want to interfere with the competence of the Commission, nor did we want to question the legitimacy of the commission. We just wanted to respond to your request, and in our opinion we also expressed our concerns about a particular statement in the last paragraph. As regards the doubts expressed in the Commission's report, or in the positions referred to in points 6, 7, 8 and 9, let me say that, in relation to these views, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has concluded in its opinion that it has no comments on the report, the views and the findings of the Commission. So, these are the positions relating to the area of operation of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence and Security. Let me stress that this is a report relating to 2008. The comments made here are likely to refer to another period. So when we look at 2008, the government estimates that the findings in points 6 to 9 are correct or appropriate. In order to protect the institution of the Director of Sova, I should say that the visits of the Director of the Sova to the Government should be normal, since the Sova, which already comes from the title, is a government agency under the supervision of the various parliamentary authorities, works in accordance with the normative basis, but however, how the Government should act if it does not have the intelligence and security support of the findings and analyses made by Sova. By supporting or protecting all directors of the former, present and future, please understand that the Directors of the Soviet Union have the right to enter government institutions or government premises and also to report to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer? Please, Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much. First of all, one explanation for the last time in the debate was the visit of the former Head of the Owl in the cabinet of the former Prime Minister, the former, former Prime Minister, to some of the events that took place and which were later found to have no basis in the law to make them happen. We are talking about hearings, transcripts that have happened in the past and what was happening in September 2004 on the relations of the former Presidents of the Slovenian and Croatian governments. That's what this was about. Otherwise, it is normal for Sova to be a government service and it is normal that if it is a government service, she should report, cooperate with the government and so on. So, briefly, if I may, I would like to conclude with this formal part, which has also been "disputed" on the subject of accepting these conclusions and reports today. 12. 11. 2009 was adopted by the Commission with conclusions, members of the Commission had access to it since 3. 11 to 12. 11. both in the report and in the conclusions. During that period, no one took a look at this report and two members of the National Assembly were later considered on 2 February. Members were present at the meeting of the Commission, with the exception of the representative of DeSUS, Mr Urh, taking into account all comments made to the text of the report and to the views and observations in particular. The Commission adopted this report because the second part then opened for the public in two parts, first we discussed and adopted the content part of the report, was adopted without a vote against, with four votes in favour. All the comments proposed were accepted. In particular, we discussed these observations and views, as well as the conclusions you have today in writing, which were published in the Rapporteur on 20 November, and were adopted unanimously by the votes of all the members of the Commission present and by taking into account all the comments that have been made. The Commission also unanimously adopted conclusions that the findings and views of the public are part of the report or a public document of the Commission. And it was decided unanimously that this report, together with these views, should be sent to the National Assembly. The National Assembly considered this report at its 13th meeting, which began on 25 January and, in particular, on 2 February, after this hearing was suspended, the deadline for the amendment was also set - no amendment was tabled. The main part of these findings or conclusions and views relate to the Slovenian Intelligence Agency. Why? Because the main activity, or main conclusion, has somehow focused or concentrated in the year to which the report relates. This year we have witnessed the completion of certain procedures. Both the closure of the procedures administered by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and the conclusion of the Government Working Group. This year, a final report was adopted by the Government and, of course, some other procedures, which spoke of the importance of giving weight to this area in view of the gravity of irregularities and violations that have taken place in this period and in the past in the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, also because of the fact that something like this would never happen again in the future. What is interesting is why some are so nervous when this report is being considered and why they point to an individual case. I had a press conference on February 2nd here in the National Assembly, after the consideration of the report was interrupted, a press conference at which I said what could be said. Interestingly, journalist Pop Tv, the only question she asked me on February 2nd was how I comment on Mr Podbregar's 50 000 euro compensation action against me. In the reports of the evening at 24 hours, there was only a contribution to this action. Not a word about what the National Assembly discussed on 2 February. But what's most interesting, the lawsuit was brought before a court in Cyprus on February 2nd, which is the same day. I got it about a month ago. This action, by which I must say, Mr Podbregar is suing for the findings of the parliamentary commission, because of this eighth indent, and I have not said anything that would be disputed, and many are significantly more. This is an action of political connotation for me and its purpose is not to guarantee the rights of the complainant, but to divert attention from the unpleasant findings of the Court of Auditors, the Government, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and other bodies relating to the period when Mr Podbregar led the Owl as Director. However, I am not responsible for his actions, as I said earlier as President of the Commission, as I cannot be responsible for the conduct of the Minister or anyone else in that country. I can't take this responsibility even if I wanted it. This responsibility must be taken by each individual and cannot, if I say hypothetically, be accused by a criminal for persecuting him. It can't, it's the wrong world. Obviously, however, all the procedures that have been initiated in 2007 and 2008 in connection with the irregularities in Owl will in fact, as has been said here in the Chamber today, because they do not run as they should be, be obsolete. I think it would be right for the National Assembly only to be familiar with those essential findings, the positions adopted by the Commission. I'll limit myself to the most important ones. He'll go through the circuits, just like you've got them in the kit. About Owl first. With regard to the Owl, these agreed conclusions found that until mid-2008 the Owl proposed the entire material produced in the SDV before 17. 5. 1990, because it should have been done in accordance with the law earlier, while part of the material is still stored in the premises of the Owl and managed by the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. External professional controls concluded in Owl at the end of 2008 showed that they were necessary and justified, in particular financial supervision, supervision of the public servants system and the Agency's assets. The Court of Auditors is 3. 12. 2008 gave a negative opinion on the operation of the Owl in recent years, mostly during the period during which Dr. Iztok Podbregar led the agency. The Court of Auditors did not comment on the operation of the illegal special fund, since the fund had not even been recorded in recent years, and therefore the audit could not be carried out. The Agency has corrected the irregularities identified already during the audit and in cooperation with the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the requirement to establish a legal state of use for the Special Fund, the Agency reported to the Government, which agreed on the way in which the solutions were adopted. Due to the overpaid salaries of employees in the past, different procedures have been conducted before the competent authorities, and open procedures have been opened with regard to the claims of a number of other amounts for the recovery of unjustifiable profits, as well as procedures resulting from the suspicion of a criminal service that is being prosecuted under official duty. The Commission expects the competent authorities in the country to complete these procedures as soon as possible. There are also a number of procedures relating to the insurance of financial assets invested in Webs, which shows that a single narrow group within the Soviet Union has established a parallel system of operation beyond the applicable rules and regulations that has reached its peak in the period of Dr. Iztok Podbregarje, where Sova acted in one part as a political police, in a round-up [[Unlawful transmission of classified information, illegal payments, covert tracing, communications outside the law]] . Today, the Owl establishes the labour law, expertise and timeliness of tasks and procedures. Business, as it has been in recent years, cannot be reintroduced after thorough controls. These conclusions were adopted unanimously by the Commission. Why? Because they are based on documents, including public documents. I won't read them now because there's not enough time. However, these documents, which were publicly published in 2008, also contain the amounts discussed and all the justifications contained in these conclusions of the Commission are based on these documents and on publicly known findings. And one of the essential things that speaks of the fact that a strange system had actually been established in Owl during that period, that this service had been followed in the past by others, not only the national interests or not only the interests that had created it, but in fact the establishment of a system that could be called Parasov or Owl in Owl. Let's just say this company's example. The media reported that it was Webs. A special undertaking has been established, but its activity has not been targeted at carrying out activities with the State Intelligence Service. The company was established for the husband of an agency employee. This worker was aware of the operation of the Special Fund and was in charge of its operations in the period prior to 2003. It was a person who had worked in the former SDV before 1991, and most of the people in the New Revija circle were followed. The ownership of this company was transferred at the end of 2005 to the wife of a former operative of the Agency, who was employed by the Agency until 30. 6. 2005. It was found that this was found in the Agency that it had a forged certificate of completion of schooling and despite the fact that its working relationship had ceased. 30 6. 2005, it was one day earlier, 29. 5. 2005, reported from the special fund a million 120 thousand tolars. This is only an example of the findings that have taken place before, but have been reached in these Court of Auditors reports and the specific groups in 2008 and which are public. These findings are public and have been made public in 2008, as I have now read them. Now, a few more indents are talking about the fact that this business was a little bit strange. In Owl there were fictitious jobs, the agency had a number of external consulting contracts concluded, although it was significantly above the staffing plan allowing the number of co-workers. After that, individual operators were paid from several sources. One was found to have acquired over 7 million untaxed assets in four years because he was receiving cash through this so-called special fund. With regard to payments in Owl, principled opinion No 100 was also adopted by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, where it concluded, in summary, that "the treatment of an official in a State body who exercises non-intentional and non-economically with entrusted financial resources, thereby allowing the exploitation of others, corresponds to the definition of corruption". Moreover, "the revised material and conclusions of the working group and the anti-corruption Commission show that the Director of the Agency acted against the non-budgetary resources of the special fund in contravention of the principles of the purpose and economy of the management of the State authority's trust." There have been many unjustified benefits, they have been leased conspiracy for employees and their members, not to carry out intelligence activities and so on. So, in summary, in Owl there was a longer period of concentrated management, management and control of the specific fund and the black fund, and the acquisition and use of key operational resources. Thus, an informal environment was formed within the formal organisation, which was in fact unsupervised and masked the performance of a number of tasks. The acquisition of certain special techniques and other equipment for this informal group, the so-called informal group, was separate from purchases for other organisational units of the Agency. These statements are based on public reports. The three reports of the government group are public, they have also been summarised in the media, I say in advance because I believe that some are very closely monitoring this meeting today, and they are looking forward to where the dots and commas could be caught to accuse him of issuing classified information. Why did I re-emphasize and take on some of the findings that have already been identified and repeated today? As a result of the public opinion or doubt that the conclusions of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence services are not based on credible documents. I don't think that's good. I could talk for a few more hours about these things. Everything we have accepted has been accepted on the basis of the findings that stand, recorded and for which we are not responsible on the Commission, but we are obliged to speak and present them to the public. In the field of intelligence and security services, I think it is essential that the Commission conclude that the Commission assesses that the service has done its work successfully, both in defence and in a national security context. She was an important member in providing security support to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international operations and missions. It has been successful in the field of international cooperation and the exchange of intelligence. It acted legally and professionally, as confirmed by the audit carried out, since there have been no major irregularities in the field of business over the past two years. This finding is also based on the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which, like SOVA, where a negative opinion was expressed, gave a different opinion and was followed by the Commission itself on the basis of other findings of the Commission. In the area of police activities in the context of the implementation of specific investigation measures by the criminal police, the Commission has found that the Commission has not fully implemented the provisions of the Law on parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services in recent years, since the Commission has not informed about the purchase of equipment and equipment which allows for the intervention in the constitutionally protected human right to privacy, as has been established. The Commission also notes that the Commission's police do not report on all the covert investigative measures, which prevents comprehensive parliamentary supervision. There are doubts as to the implementation of a specific investigation measure in the case where the police have obtained orders 20. 11. 2008 These measures were prepared after the analysis of communication media completed on 12.12. Later, the police re- and past the prosecution's direction began collecting data on users of phone numbers, but at the same time did not register the case and did not lead it into action, which in fact meant that the implementation of the measure was intended to cover up. This was found at one of the controls of the authorised group of the Commission. And also on the basis of this discovery and these findings, things have been improved and improved in the last period, and I am sure that such cases are no longer being made. "For the area of control of electronic communications operators, the Commission has found that, despite repeated calls, some operators have consistently violated the provisions of Article 29 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services," and for quite some time, "so it has proposed to the Government that the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications check on these operators as soon as possible to ensure confidentiality and confidentiality in their operations." Well, I must say that in line with this last position, or the last conclusion, we have also consolidated the methodology for reporting data. That, on the basis of this uniform methodology and on the basis of notification from then on, this reporting shall be appropriate, up-to-date, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence and Security Services. And even for operators who have experienced problems in the past, these problems no longer occur. For example, it was an operator from which these reports were not available, from the moment we discussed and accepted these findings and requested that reports be sent regularly, the Commission is now receiving these reports regularly and within the deadlines foreseen. In short, my assessment is that the Commission, although some wanted to question its work in a political way, in the year to which the reporting relates - but it must be said that, in truth, this, to a large extent, has done much work as far as the previous term is concerned - has done. In this mandate, we wanted to continue this work in the best possible way and in the best possible way. I think we are trying to ensure parliamentary control, which is political control, which is not professional supervision. It is necessary to know that the committee of the Parliament for the supervision of intelligence and security services, without having the option, is not intended to provide professional supervision of the work of these services; others are empowered and in charge. It is our intention to ensure political, independent control over the work of services with extremely high powers and powers, which, in accordance with the laws, also interfere with fundamental human rights. And in the interest of all of us, and in the interest of the confidence of citizens and citizens in the fact that these rights are not violated unlawfully, it is illegal to establish confidence in these services. And I think that one of the important mechanisms is also support or special weight on the parliamentary committee that exercises this control. In conclusion, I would like to thank both those who, in the important part of the year for which we are considering this report, have performed this task, as well as all their colleagues with whom we are working in the current term, for all the assistance in carrying out their work, of course also the professional services carrying the greatest weight of responsibility in the preparation of the individual material, and, of course, all those who have contributed in one way or another to the Commission's acceptance of this report without a vote against and the conclusion of the position and conclusions unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. We have one application, so we will open up an opportunity to apply for an additional debate. I also inform you that, of course, the Minister may also apply orally, who would then receive the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone gets five minutes. Can we give them five minutes? Everyone has five minutes. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u94	See, it has already been said before and also now the President of the Commission confirmed that - clearly, they have made some report after their assessment for a period in which they did not exercise control, that is, when you were chairman of the Commission, and I am firmly convinced that from what I saw, I am one of those two who even went to look twice at the time - not when I was not allowed, but when it was available after the adoption of the Commission's report - and I am confident that it is not possible to make a political assessment of what is in the documents, because this is a report by the Commission and at the end of it reads: findings, opinions and conclusions. At the point, one last dot under the first chapter and with this last dot black, which is, is a typical political assessment where it says that it is in some period, not even speaking in what period, but in some period. However, the report refers to 2008, although it is already at issue here, whether someone can go back to work on another part of the report and conclusions. But let's leave practice to it. However, it is not possible to give such a political assessment that this has indeed happened, for it does not say at any time, in any case, or in any way, that it should be turned into the work of the political police, as it appears here. More. Here were the most debates on 2004 and not on 2008 and you are citing some transcripts and I do not know what else from 2004, we have, in the meantime, discussed at least 4 reports in the National Assembly for a certain period of control. Every year we do it separately. And what exactly is this value, this surplus of your findings? I think this is a very serious accusation that it is an assessment that goes beyond any normal framework when it comes to Parliament's relations, through a commission of controls, services and the like. As you say, "yes, against some employees in the past." Tell me who it's about. You once write because it answers you that it was Mr Podbregar because he was a director, but at some point Mr Šinkovec was the director - at the point before. You don't write it down that he paid off unjustifiably, employed and so on. Let me tell you what's public. I mean, I talk about it the way I do, because I know it mostly because I read it in the paper. The newspaper said how it was actually going and how someone really wanted to take advantage of it. But because that doesn't suit you, because the President of the Commission doesn't respond to both points or all points being treated in the same way, he doesn't write that down there in the case of the Director, but of course, if I recall correctly, I think that in 2006 Mr. Podbregar resigned from his post. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[...]] 2006. We have a report for 2008 and this is practically just him. Is this because of Yes, Mr Gorenak, because this is the 2008 report! [[...]] Are you talking about Podbregar all the time? Today, Mr. Chernach was betrothed when he was talking about some political performances, and I don't know where he's going to run for mayor or I don't know what. What does this have to do with the 2008 report? Unless you want to deal with your opponent in Postojna through this auditorium. Maybe. But then you do not say that you are doing your job, the first overseer properly and honestly, on behalf of all of us who even access, except when you make the report, we do not have this information. Which is normal, which I accept, but then, when you report on my behalf, because it's the National Assembly, you do it on behalf of the National Assembly, and then you have to say it right, just like it actually is. I am sorry that the previous president, but he is now in charge of the meeting, has not been involved in this [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] But in the end, I don't know if I can settle for this as a Member and who will ultimately be responsible, because this will remain in the archive, that I cannot define myself and that I will reject this finding that does not reflect the actual state of affairs. [[...]] [[...]] [[Dig up the mic.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I can't give you my word. You didn't sign up for time sharing. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I wasn't talking about any mayoral candidates today. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, look at the magnetogram, Mr. Anderlich. That's what you said. Looks like it's some manners in LDS, trying to get some words into another opponent's mouth. I was saying that you probably don't find the findings politically appropriate because those responsible for the irregularities that have taken place in Owl belong to your political option. But that it cannot be the responsibility of the President of the Commission, and not those who reveal these actions, but those who have merely done these services or abandonments are responsible. Why are they relevant, or why are there also data relating to previous periods in this report? I have explained this and will explain it again: because all activities related to detection of irregularities continued in 2008, they started in 2007, they continued in 2008 and also largely ended in 2008, with the exception of criminal proceedings, indemnifications and other proceedings. If there was a Court of Auditors report, if the Commission dealt with it in 2008, then of course it cannot be overlooked. If we have considered the report of the government group that completed its work in 2008, this cannot be overlooked either. I explained why in this report there are things that also relate to previous periods because they were finally disclosed at the time. I also said that it is not possible to conclude against Mr Šinkovec that any procedures have been put in place in view of this information. You have also discussed in this debate today that there is a lot missing in the report. It should be reiterated that it is not missing. Everything that has been found has been written down, but today the consideration of this report has been exceeded because it was dealt with on 2 February and we are only talking about conclusions. I am taking this opportunity to say the answer to the question raised in the debate; whether we can trust these services has been said. And especially in recent months and days, there are also public suspicions that there is a long and all-increasing wiretapping in this country. I think these are very dangerous situations, and I, as President of the Commission, must say in accordance with what the Commission is doing and what the authorised groups have seen so far that this is not the case. To carry out activities in the services under which the Commission has jurisdiction under the applicable legislation. Of course, they appear in recent weeks and days even certain anonymities, some of them mainly refer to the Slovenian Intelligence Security Agency, where there are a lot of false allegations that might need to be investigated, because it may happen to us in a few weeks, months, or days, some anonymous person who will reveal some information that should actually remain confidential. I think it is very important here for the authorities to prosecute, to take these things seriously and to detect those acts that may actually be harmful to this country. It is not good to focus on what constitutes no harm and on some public word that is possible for a political opponent, but does not mean any interference in confidential information. For the time being, on the basis of what the Commission has seen so far, I can ensure that the services under control operate in accordance with the applicable legislation and, of course, also the operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much, again. I see that they have now joined us from the Ministry of Interior and Logistics in the end. Nice to meet you. I took the floor for this additional reason, Mr President, because I had the feeling that you wanted to relativize my report on the interview with Prime Minister Drnovsk when I was chairman of the Commission for Intelligence. I don't know what was wrong with you, but I had a feeling that you wanted to relativize that Mr Drnovšek said with terrible confidence that somehow back then the intelligence services had been shot by the old forces and that he had sent a new director to sort of sort of settle it and actually had a lot of mistrust in one part of the intelligence services at the time. This information was extremely useful to me, because I was sure that the situation had been improved at the time, but from the background they had the power of old forces that had not yet adopted democratic standards. I have seen that Mr Drnovšek was very frank at the time, and in some ways he was also afraid of these old forces, not intelligence services, and probably this was also the reason that the government and ministers were of little use to the Owl and the information that they should gather for the benefit of the State. At that time, we quoted from the Commission why in the economic field, the intelligence service does not collect better information. For example, when a vendor from the Cayman Islands was there, they didn't know anything. First, less than the press about that bidder and so on. I agree with the Minister here, no one objects that the Director of the Intelligence Service must also consult the Prime Minister, the Ministers and so forth, but, of course, within the framework of legality, must not carry transcripts which the law does not foresee. This is one thing, but with regard to what I was saying, about Mr Drnovsk's feelings at the time, I fear that the current President of the Government or he has some mistrust, I have seen because the last time Mr Kek and Mr Kumer spoke anonymously on the Defence Committee - I don't know who got it, we all didn't get it - Mr Pahor called the Director to the interview on the same day and that this is probably an attempt by some within the current coalition to systematically sow distrust in the functioning of intelligence services. Surely there are such interests that there is a systematic meeting of mistrust in the operation of these services and that the President of the Government is also trying to differentiate and make him in some ways confusing in some cases. I think today's debate is useful. However, if some things came on the day or on the ears of the Commission in 2008, they happened earlier, it is logical that this report and these views be discussed. At that time, it was not all known what was going on below deck in 2006 or some year earlier, since the fact is that even at the time of the previous government, one part of the government's intelligence has not yet been loyally accepted. It's not. He was working on special channels. That turned out to be the case. And it is right to talk about this, because services must work within the framework of legality, within the framework of the law, within the framework of the Constitution and respect all the positive standards of human rights. Now, let's get our jobs in line. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Yes, "I do not recognize this Prime Minister," this is outrageous. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and note that the National Assembly took note of the views and conclusions of the Commission on the supervision of the intelligence and security services. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u100	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on the proposal for a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Continue with the 9th item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Withdrawal and Transplantation of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Dr Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Members, Members of Parliament. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group favours transplant medicine and Members will vote in their conscience. With regard to this bill, which is proposed, and personally, I support this form, to trust doctors and their activities. Today there was quite a lack of confidence in this, yet, ten years ago [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u102	May I have your attention in the hall, please? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u103	Ten years ago, we promoted these cards through the Red Cross for organ donors. Some of the fellows, I saw, had them with them. Later, however, this activity was slightly abandoned and therefore there was no excessive response. There was also a suggestion that a personal physician should take care of offering these cards to his patients. That's very easy to do, because the most important thing is trust between a doctor and a patient, and if the patient came to the doctor firsthand and offered him this card, he'd have, if he didn't have problems, at least fears, and he'd think, well, now I'm already in the end that I'm just a good organ donation. I mean, it's a little cartoon. However, the Minister himself said nicely that the matter was extremely sensitive and that it required, even this form of law could achieve its counter-effect. That's possible, too. That is why much effort is needed in this area with all actors. Also, the director of the Slovenian-transplant, who listened to the debate on the balcony, was extremely pleased with the debate, she said, I will just say, "The first thing is to create this awareness and need in this Parliament, and then to expand the law, which will be in preparation or other forms in this field of effort, may reach the goal of making more bodies available for those waiting for this therapy." For we may not be aware that we are not only potential donors, but also recipients or our closest ones, and therefore we must look on both sides and be inclined to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-23-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 48. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 16th meeting of the Assembly. Thank you very much and good-bye.
