ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Rudolf Petan, Roberto Battelli and here I have written Dr. Vinko Gorenak, who is here – from 16:00 onwards Vinko Gorenak cannot attend the meeting. I invited representatives of the Council of State to decide on the agenda of the meeting and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 19 November 2010. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Group of Members and Members, signed first by Melito Župevc, proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by the consideration of the Redecision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Book, EPA 1152/V. You received the proposal by letter of 2. 12. 2010 Would you like a representative of the proposer, representative of the proposer? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the Council of State want a word? [[I don't see him in the hall.]] Does the representative of the government want to speak as a proposal for a bill? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Jože Tanko, the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! We will not support this proposal to extend the agenda in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. On 23 November, the Council of State voted two vetoes; the veto on the Income and Veta Act on the Land Book Act, and the coalition proposed to extend the agenda today only one proposal. The Income Act, which regulates taxation primarily or exclusively of agricultural owners, does not provide for an extension of the agenda. In fact, this points to the very two-faced behaviour of the coalition. At a time when something needs to be done for rural areas, when some rural conditions need to be regulated, this is not in the field of interest. That's when you have to do something for the lobby, and here we're talking mainly about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u3	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u4	on notaries and lawyers, and then this needs to be arranged in the shortest possible way. [[...]] The Land Book Act is transferring services related to land-book transfers to lawyers and to notaries and the costs of these books will be approximately EUR 30 million. If we know that this will all be transferred to about 300 legal entities, it is 100 notaries and about 200 lawyers' houses, then this law means that without any additional cost to earn about 100,000 euros on average for notaries or lawyers per legal entity. We are of the opinion that there is absolutely no need for such a forceful way of regulating and adopting, reaffirming this law, and that is why we will not accept this in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please. [[...]] I must say that this is not the reason for the interruption, but whatever. We're voting again. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as item 3 of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and by an extension adopted. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the agenda of the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Companies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalers of the Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to the Company Act in order to delete the provisions governing silent societies from this law. In the Law on Economic Companies, which was created in the middle of the previous mandate, we have summarised the provisions on silent companies set out in the previous law and the law already in force has taken over silent companies as an integral part of economic law primarily on the basis of the German legal order. In fact, because we have had no experience, no bad experience or good experience in this regard, we have not had any legal practice in this area. We have therefore taken up certain arrangements following traditional economies that have already established themselves, which have gone far beyond some transition periods and, therefore, could have had something positive for silent societies in these regimes. Of course, silent companies and silent partners differ from existing companies. In fact, silent shareholders in silent companies regulate their relations with the silent company operator on the basis of a contract and this contract is hidden from the public or is not the subject of a file in the register of justice. In this way, a silent partner may appear in particular in a certain economic society, and of course the tax aspect is not negligible. I believe they do, and we also believe that silent societies have positive effects in certain economies that have survived and passed through the transition, but that in Slovenia, at least on one occasion, they can prove themselves to be really negative. Indeed, the case of Mr Danil Toplek, longtime director of Talum, is more than visual. The gentleman was, for at least once, a silent associate of even a silent associate of the company that operated with Talum. Therefore, there are more than enough reasons for possible conflicts of interest, including abuses of this cross-interest, and this is why the Commission has also addressed this issue for the supervision of public finances. The Public Finance Supervisory Commission has also invited all stakeholders in this case who have ignored this Commission. Only one of the invited came and more than evidently there was heard that in this case there had been an abuse of this institute, that there had also been an abuse of society. On the basis of all these findings, the Commission called on the Government to invite all authorities to manage and control state-owned companies, i.e. all directors and supervisors of state-owned enterprises, to make a statement whether they are silent members of any company at home or abroad. The government has said that it does not have the authority to call on people at the head of state companies and in the supervisory authorities of these companies to make such statements. It thus confirmed the suspicion that these cases of silent society and State ownership abuses could be much more than they were due to one dispute per day between the silent society operator and the silent shareholders. For the government felt competent to intervene in the salaries of directors of companies, in supervisors – which I think is right – but did not feel competent to ask the same people whether they were at the same time silent associates and whether there was any possibility of conflicts of interest and abuse. We therefore propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party to delete the provisions of a silent company under the Company Act. We propose that any contractual relationship between members or society and members is public, otherwise these contractual relations are null and void. We are also proposing a transitional period for all silent companies to be regulated and abolished within a relatively short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word has magic. Darja Radic, Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u8	Good afternoon, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! A silent company is regulated in the Company Act within the framework of private companies, from 158 to 167. As Mr Vizjak has already said, a silent society does not have the status of a legal person, but it is actually a contractual relationship between a silent society operator and silent associates. It is said to be a bonding relationship under which a silent shareholder has the right to participate in a profit by means of an investment in another company. However, it is not, of course, entitled to participate in the management of this company. The purpose of this silent company is therefore to provide a new asset to the company without the silent shareholder actively participating in the management of the company as a shareholder. In return, the silent shareholder is involved in the profit, of course only if the company has a profit, in the event that the company does not have a profit, the silent shareholder is also complicit in the loss. The relationship between the silent shareholder and the silent company operator is in fact similar to the lending relationship, only so that the silent shareholder does not receive interest in this case, but instead gains a share of the company’s profits. In contrast to the loan contracts, this contractual relationship between a silent company and a silent shareholder also differs in the event of the bankruptcy of that company, in which a silent shareholder is involved in the loss. In the event of bankruptcy of such a company having silent shareholders, the insolvency administrator may also challenge the return and exemption of the deposit or share. If the purpose of the proposalrs were to follow and now delete a chapter governing the operation of silent companies and silent partners, it would not, of course, prevent contracts on the basis of which individuals would still engage in such transactions despite this deletion. In this case, however, it would be a fact that such transactions would not be legally regulated. The Company Act clearly sets out the rights and obligations of a silent shareholder, as well as of a silent company. As is now regulated by the Company Act, this certainly ensures good security for all other participants in the business; it is said to be creditors, shareholders and others. Therefore, the Government considers that the deletion of the chapter of a silent company is not an appropriate solution, since in this case this would lead to an even greater deterioration of the position of creditors and the carrier of a silent company, while at the same time such contractual relations would still take place, but in another uncontrolled way. Therefore, this speedy deletion of the chapter on silent societies, which is, of course, the easiest solution to solve one case that has arisen because of a certain abuse that has now occurred — or the suspicion of the abuse that is occurring in the public. This could lead to unnecessary and harmful consequences for all those who are doing such business with a fair purpose. It is true, however, that the proposal for amendments to the Act on Economic Companies raised the issue of the conflict of interest of these silent partners, of course in the case of other functions. We believe that this is a warning on the ground and that it is reasonable to analyse the legislation in force, particularly in the sense that the identification and prevention of these conflicts of interest between society and members of management is now regulated. With a view to improving the legislation and regulation of this area in this direction, it is appropriate to increase the control of the operation of silent companies, we have already reacted to the Ministry of the Economy, and we have already prepared amendments to the Company Act in the work that will strengthen supervision. The amendment of the law is already under interdepartmental treatment. In addition, we will propose to amend other legislation, such as the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, to improve the supervision of these companies. In accordance with that, the Government cannot support this proposal for a law and proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u10	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly, Minister with co-workers! In fact, I was surprised to hear the government's performance that it couldn't support this law. But there was no continuation, because then many of our government officials would very quickly remain without the influence of politics, law, economy and their assets. Therefore, we will support the amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies in the Slovenian People's Party. So let's start a little bit more specifically. The silent company, the purpose of the establishment of this company, is in the contribution of a silent shareholder, in the institution of a silent company, thereby gaining the right to take part in the profit. A silent associate can be both a natural and a legal person. Even more interesting is the contribution that can be money, can be resources and can also be services. The contractual relationship between the silent party and the silent company operator is necessarily an internal relationship which is unknown outside and is not entered in the register of justice. Now, see what anyone in this country can do to perform such a function — and if I don’t speak in a third person, I will speak in the first person. So what exactly does that mean, let's look at plastic. I, Franz Pukšič, Mayor of the Municipality of Destrnik, with YX in exchange for commission, bribe – so I do not want this – agree to be selected on some invitation to build a cleaning plant. Because today it's a little bit problematic to take money in an envelope because you never know how and what, with YX, you sign a silent partnership agreement. They're my stakes — what? Yes, intellectual services! In return, I participate — where? At the profit of the company. This kind of legalizes corruption. But I, Franz Pukšič, the mayor of the Municipality of Destrinik, have never done that. Second case. I haven't been, but I can be, for example, the Minister of the Environment. In exchange for the commission, I agree with YX to receive a project from the Ministry. Because, of course, I do not want to be caught with my fingers in marmalade, with YX I sign a silent society agreement that gives me the right to share profits, and corruption is even legalised. Pika. The fact that it is truly legalized will now be illustrated in the third case – not plastic, directly and specifically. If, for example, the Director of the Talum State Company had been in exchange for obtaining a variety of transactions with this company, I would have concluded a silent society agreement giving me the right to share the profits. And everything's nice and right and even legal again. Why legal? Of course I didn't, but Danilo Toplek, the director of the company in 80% of state ownership, did. Why is it legal? Because even the Governing Council found that this was legal. That Danilo Toplek was a silent associate of a silent partner, and that company was doing work in the company where he was the CEO, that is, in Tallum. That, of course, the result is easy — we do not know. Minister, tell us how you will find out which companies Danilo Toplek is also a silent partner. For example, activities to replace domestic suppliers were launched in May 2007 and moved to Merkur. Did Danilo Toplek become a silent partner with other domestic suppliers by redirecting supplies to Mercury? Does anyone know? Does the board of directors know? Nobody knows that! Next. The company owned by Talum, and owned by Impol, d.d., in Slovenska Bistrica – both companies have signed a contract between them to sell aluminium Impola, d.d., in the amount of 40 tonnes per year at market prices. Forty thousand tons at stock prices. In fact, only 9 to 14 thousand tons came from Talum. The other quantities went through Norsk Hydro. Is Mr. Toplek, his relatives, anyone associated with this company Norsk Hydro through a quiet society? Do we know that? Also someone from Impola because they own 42% of the country? Do you have an answer to that? You don't! The Minister says here today that we would oppose this law, that is, simply put, supporting corruption. Not supporting, legalizing corruption! Tell me about the next case. The Taluma Supervisory Board allowed electricity to be paid to Eles through indirect companies. Why? Because it was cheaper – Eles in state ownership, Talum in 80% state ownership – because there is also a possible Mr. Danilo Toplek silent partner. Where isn't everything? Or where everything is? Is he also in any company where the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor is? Since the president is there, we have called on this government to at least get him out of this town, and nothing has happened. Minister Križanič even said he was serious about it, but then they obviously told him and he had to shut up and didn't go on. What ownership is in the Golf Invest on Ptuj, which we know is also co-invested by Talum, and so on. How many silent associates are there? How much of this is in this area? Such a society makes the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption in Work, which speaks of restricting the operation of officials, in fact, irrelevant. The Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is, in effect, applicable — to whom? For the municipal councillors there, I don't know, a million euros in budget money? The Bureau for Prevention of Money Laundering on its website says that we can read this: 1. It is clear, therefore, that someone may be a silent participant in a company, with both the possibility of control and the possibility of having an impact on the business and the decision-making of the administrations and the right to participate in a profit without anyone except the carrier of that silent company knowing it. However, there is a company for quiet society and who is a silent companion [[...]] The following is what we have read on the Office’s website: Thus, there can be overlaps between the identity of a silent partner who in certain cases actually affects the business and business decisions of the administration and does not only gain an appropriate part of the company’s profits, but therefore has an impact on the company’s control and operation. So how can this instrument actually be used? And now that some of these cases have been made public in the National Assembly, when you don't know and you don't have any instrument on how to cut it and review it forward, the only instrument is to adopt this amendment of the SG law and, of course, delete it. We therefore believe that the above situation poses an increased risk of money laundering, and my dears, also for the financing of terrorism. It is considered that it is right in the law on the prevention of money laundering [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u11	Comrade Pukšič, you have gone far beyond the time of your parliamentary group: 27, 28, 29 - half minutes. Please finish your sentence and finish!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u12	From this point of view, the creation of a silent company in some way is a cover-up of the identity of the persons who actually affect the business of a silent company. [[...]] That is why we support this law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u13	Thank you. I'm sorry, my fellow officers, for letting my colleague go 50 seconds later. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be moved by Franc Jurša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the problems raised by the drafters of this bill, and we support efforts to resolve the issues that have proved to be serious concerns in some of the cases that have been known and exposed so far. However, it is clear in this respect that the abuse of the business or the involvement of private company ownership or society in another which is owned by the State and which is clearly linked between them through a person who is also a management or control authority in a public economic society cannot be avoided in either of the institutions governed by the Company Act. After careful consideration, we have decided in our Group of Members to leave each Member to decide how he will vote. The consequences resulting from the abolition of silent companies could lead to the conclusion of different types of contracts which would lead to similar factual conditions, such as in the case of silent companies, only if this was not properly regulated, which of course means further possibilities of non-transparent and biased business for the purposes of pursuing personal economic interests. The law clearly lays down the rights and obligations of a silent partner and of a silent company operator and the rules in the event of the bankruptcy of a silent company. In the performance of their duties, compensation and criminal liability are also regulated, which do not deal with the due diligence of a conscientious and fair economic operator and abuse the society and cause damage to it with a view to obtaining a wealth benefit. The framework for the cooperation and participation of public officials in companies and its bodies in relation to the incompatibilities of the performance of functions, activities and duties shall be laid down by the rules of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. In one of the government’s views on the issue at hand, it was mentioned that it would recommend to the competent authority for the management of capital companies of the Republic of Slovenia that it should include in its rules on the exercise of the rights of shareholders or shareholders in state companies the incompatibilities of the management and control of one legal person with the function of a silent participant in another legal person, if these two legal persons are engaged in business with each other, and that they also include a declaration of a possible contractual relationship in a silent society for the appointment of members of supervisory boards and managers in that company. Such recommendations, in our view, would also make sense. We have also assessed the need to verify the whole of the Company Act and all other relevant legislation, including tax, which may be linked to the issue of conflict of interest and abuse of positions. Therefore, to check whether all legislation is sufficiently appropriate and, if so, to focus on the implementation and response of supervisory authorities to any infringements. Otherwise, I note that the Government has already prepared legal material to amend the Law on Economic Companies, which, in a more appropriate, comprehensive way, solves the situation in the event of a conflict of personal economic interest, as well as the participation of members of the management or control body in the operations of larger companies. So DeSUS Members will vote on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! As we have already heard, the Minister has responded by actually saying the essence of this law. It should be clear to both the ministers and her colleagues in the Government that the SDS' response to the proposal of this law has been an extreme exit to everything that is going on in this country, and it is very harsh to point out that the supervisory functions in this country are apparently no longer in place, despite many supervisory authorities. We are faced with the fact of two solutions: whether by law we abolish silent societies and thus think that we will prevent the illegal business and illegal participation of individuals in illegal transactions, or, finally, once again, we will awaken the judiciary, the supervisory authorities paid to do their work. Of course, on the one hand, it is a nice decision: let us end the law on silent societies and thus solve the problem. But in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that this solution means something else. In 14 days' time, however, we will introduce a law to abolish the Company Act, because all this nonsense is also happening in companies where there are public associates, and again because there is no supervisory function in this country. She's gone! This is the government's fault because it allows it because it pays the supervisors who don't do anything. It's hard to say that we're going to shut down silent societies -- you probably all know -- or maybe if someone didn't read it accurately -- that come from the Middle Ages, France, Italy; in Germany, they exist all over the world. Now we're going to be in our house because of the scams that are happening, because individuals are using this system to the maximum, we're going to shut down this system that is miraculously running elsewhere! I don't know. If we look at the case of a silent associate, the owner of the company, where the silent associates are his employees. In this case, we thought of ourselves in the Slovenian National Party. This is an atypical silent society, where now we are going to stop those workers who, with the owner of the silent partnership and besides the salary, are also getting a share of the profits, because as silent associates, we will now, by law, if we abolish this chapter of silent society, make it impossible for those workers who are silent members to benefit from the profits. It's guilt. But again, the injustice that workers will suffer again because of the impossible situation in our supervisory organs and in our judiciary. In fact, if this goes on, we will really put forward in the Slovenian National Party a proposal to abolish the Company Act and then there will be peace, then there will probably be no more crooks. Tomorrow there will be new ones, such as you have named, who, even if we stop silent societies, will do exactly the same, in a different way, in foreign companies, wherever they are! It is true that silent companies are such that the participation of silent shareholders is not disclosed that members, i.e. silent shareholders, are not registered in the register. However, we do have contracts because it clearly states that a silent associate must conclude with a legal person whose member then becomes a legal person, so he is not a legal person, but he is a silent partner in a company where someone is a carrier. There is a contract, this contract is probably a public document. If the supervisory authorities reviewed this contract, they would then precisely see that the X person is the director of a state-owned enterprise or a majority-owned enterprise and a silent associate in Y, who brought him to work in X. This requires a purely ordinary supervisor or an auditor, not a meeting of the National Assembly and the abolition of silent associates and all articles in the Company Act, thereby preventing other forms of such success. In the Slovenian National Party, we are ahead of a difficult decision on what to do. If we think that by abolishing that part of the Law on Economic Companies talking about silent societies, we will prevent the economic crime that is taking place – we doubt that we will. And we want to punish a lot of people like that. In order to cause damage to those silent partners in atypical companies, that is to say, workers who are silent members of a company are well involved with the owner and are still involved in the profits, we will do them harm. With the secretary saying that it is and that the government will tighten control and so on. Unfortunately, I must say, Madam Minister, it is high time, although a little late, and I hope and believe that will happen. There are many things about the culprits that come to this.– But I hope and sincerely want to ask you all this moment, and we will talk at one of the next extraordinary meetings when we talk about such and different control of economic and other crime; about those who stand behind with their inactions, and this is about the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary-General! At the beginning of the debate on the amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies, let us make it clear that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we strongly condemn conflicts of interest, which are also carried out through the Institute of Silent Partners and Mediators of Silent Companies. That is why we have also examined the proposed amendments to the Company Act and, in terms of the objectives pursued by the law, we also agree with the law. It is quite simple to say, even in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have enough to deal with such and other alleged abuses in the economic field almost a day, especially in connection with companies owned by the state or even by the majority of the state. So we can also say that at first we were inclined to support the marriage. After a thorough reflection and a thorough examination of the changes and additions to the law, we have found that we are not solving exactly anything that we are supposed to resolve by means of a declaration of law. If we abolish the Institute of Silent Companies, we will only remove the mechanism administratively, and we will continue to allow this kind of controversial action in different ways. These findings are also supported by the opinion of the Government, which states that if they followed the intention of the applicants and deleted the section of the Company Act governing silent companies, they would not prevent contracts whereby an individual could otherwise participate in the company's profits. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we advocate a comprehensive solution that would [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] abuses in the economic field either by adopting a specific law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or by supplementing the Act on Economic Companies or other relevant legislation. [[...]] However, we are of the view that a comprehensive and water-resistant solution must be found that will prevent the flow of money from state-owned enterprises to private companies. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, the most worrying fact for us is that, almost a year after the law on the management of state-owned capital companies has been introduced into the procedure, we are still dealing with a fundamental problem – which prevents such abuses and what we are witnessing daily – this is a lack of control, especially effective and clear supervision in corporate governance. This is also evident from recent events in several state-owned companies, where we are left to the emotional determination of what is true and what is not. What is even more worrying and why we cannot support the proposed law is the fact that if we do not make more visible progress at the level of operation of the supervisory boards of societies, we will again ask ourselves in a year which law we must change. That the legal basis of the existence is also confirmed by the reference in the opinion of the Government, which states that if a member of the management company entered into a contract with a company in which he is a silent company, thereby injuring the company and consequently the employees, he would be in breach of his obligations and would be liable to the company in accordance with Article 263 of the Law on Economic Companies. On behalf of the company, supervisors should take action in such a case and file a compensation action. These companies know in most of our comparable countries, and we have no major problems with the concept itself, with the difference that in these countries systemic supervision is usually or at least more effective. We have never landed in the LDS Club, and even today we cannot have the supervisory councils extended the term of administration or worse, that the administration is usually three steps ahead of the supervisory board. But the problem is that we have a real problem in Slovenia [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] economic crime and its long-standing non-interference with this problem, first in the area of internal control, then in the field of control by the competent institutions. [[...]] It is only in recent times that, by establishing economic crime as the main priorities, procedures can be gradually expected to break the threshold of illegal interference between private and public interest. At the LDS, we are also aware that such procedures are long-term, difficult and complex, but we would also like more speed and efficiency in our House of Representatives. In addition to the dilemmas already mentioned, as we have repeatedly warned that in Slovenia, when we encounter a pressing problem, we are very superficially addressing the solution, that is, we think that any social problem can be solved by changing legislation. But the problems are generally deeper and are also linked to business culture, the understanding of entrepreneurship and cooperative governance as such, and consequently to the poor implementation of legislation in practice. If we look through these glasses, we find that legislation is only a minor problem. If we take only one example of the functioning of the Office for the Protection of Competition, a while ago the Office looked like a toothless tiger, and today, when unchanged or at least not substantially amended legislation, it is exercising all the powers and mechanisms it has at its disposal, and this is just one example. As has already been said, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we cannot support the law, despite good intentions, because we would not solve the problems that the bill is intended to solve. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we expect the Government to present appropriate solutions as soon as possible, both in the legislative field and in practice, to provide the conditions for effective management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u19	Thank you. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u20	Thank you so much for the word and a nice greeting to everyone! It is likely that the well-known and uplifting case we are talking about has caused a lot of reflection, as we see, in both the public and the individual parliamentary groups and the parties, as well as a few dilemmas to be answered. This was also the case in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament and let what I will later try to elaborate put into two essential thoughts. For the first time, the basic purpose of what the applicant has drawn up in the form of a bill is perfectly legitimate. If it is an attempt to prevent damage to state property and if it is an attempt to prevent a conflict of interest in the matter, it is likely that everyone should follow this ambition, and in the Minister's opening statement, we have heard that this is also part of the Ministry's thinking that is preparing a change of legislation in this area. The second thing to say on behalf of our parliamentary group is that it is only one part of the ambitions that the proposal has drawn up in the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law. However, part of the ambition is that we also have a number of questions that we do not actually have the definitive answers to, because silent societies are not something that could be analysed in different documents, which we could directly check, because that is the very essence of these silent societies. Therefore, given the many questions that seem problematic and irresponsible to us, we will support the proposal for a position put forward by the Government or the Minister, and we expect her to take into account in fact the positive cal that comes from the proposal for amendments and the addition of the law that we now have before us. This embezzlement case was the reason for the meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Three things need to be highlighted or three conclusions proposed by the Government. First, to reveal all those who carry public functions and possibly silent associates, which is a fully justified request. Then, in order to prevent the possibility of conflict of interest or to ensure the incompatibility of functions in public undertakings or in co-ownership companies of a State with potential silent ownership in companies or in quiet cooperation, because it is not ownership. Thirdly, to prevent all companies in which the State has any ownership, from cooperating with any silent shareholders. All three ambitions were legitimate and also supported by the Commission. The proposal for a law, which exacerbates several of these ambitions, were taken in three proposals for conclusions or in the conclusions adopted by the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. It radicalises in this way that, firstly, it requires that all contractual relations between the parties or between the shareholders and society be disclosed as public documents accessible to all, and secondly, that all silent companies be terminated within a relatively short period of time. Today, it has already been said that the abolition of silent companies does not solve this problem, which has been fully created, because other contractual relations can arise and will be less regulated than the current regulation of silent companies. It is important to point out that, when this happens, silent partners also participate in the loss of participation in bankruptcy processes. So they also take responsibility, not just any potential profits. What was most questionable to us is the following. These companies are established by law. This law — what the initiator has already said today — is quite a few years old, we know it from the previous term, and thus every silent society is a legal society. Any subsequent changes that would affect certain contractual rights already defined could constitute retroactivity. How should that associate or that silent company which has concluded contracts for the extraction of a particular material or for the extraction of a particular product be able to unmask all contracts by law and take all the blame and possible damages and lawsuits? Second question. How can all silent companies, if perhaps in these silent societies, which we do not know how many, invested in much knowledge, possibly innovation, possibly be services, be stopped at once and quickly? It's not just about the finances and the real stakes. It is also the fact that people who have knowledge, which is the vehicle of innovation, can invest it through this way and, of course, then also receive it in return. For example, if it were, we don't know any more, or even a lot of such companies with employees – what would happen to all those employees who should be in the process of abolishing these companies within the next 30 days? In short, there are a number of questions that we believe have not been answered well, so we are convinced that the regulation of silent societies needs to be changed in such a way that it will be more gradual, with some careful analysis and taking into account what the applicant has basically required: to prevent a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u22	Respected and respected! First, the boundaries should be clearly drawn. Social Democrats condemn any abuse of position or personal exploitation to the detriment of another, or even public interest and property. We want to contribute to transparently regulating in our society all relationships without unnecessary hiding places and circuits, so that we can always claim and enforce responsibility as a community to all those who, on the basis of public trust, either perform public service or manage public goods and property. This understanding is and must be the basis of our policy. Social Democrats also want to be faithful in cases where a person with our client card is found in the middle of a potential conflict of interest. This situation calls for an even more critical and unrelenting assessment of concrete actions. The rules must be the same for everyone. In public, the dangerous impression that Slovenia has two legal systems is growing: one for citizens, one for elites. This leads to an erosion of confidence in the country and state institutions, so we must resist this and do everything we can to ensure that the same rules apply to all of them consistently, always and everywhere. That's why we've been seriously thinking about supporting the proposed law, because we've seen the possibility of replacing the field of non-transparent behaviour. However, after careful consideration, we have drawn up a position that the proposed law is not an appropriate response to such developments. By removing the silent company from the Company Act, we will in no way contribute to what should be our objective in this and similar cases. This is consistent prevention, detection and sanctioning of conflicts of interest and abuse of the situation, especially when the power and responsibility of a position stem from public confidence. If we have handled this area well with the integrity law for the public sector, for public officials and officials, the question is whether this arrangement covers sufficiently the scope of possible abuses in the case of managers or members of the supervisory authorities of companies in direct or indirect state ownership. In the proper regulation of this conflict of interest, and in particular in the appropriate response of the responsible authorities and also the institutions of the rule of law, we see a much more convincing response from our community to such abuses. A silent company is a contractual relationship, a bond relationship between a silent company operator and a silent company providing an entity with an asset in exchange for its expected shareholding in profit. The Slovenian regime of a silent society is comparatively identical to that of other countries of continental law, especially Germany, since our company law is also largely based on the examples of the German Handelsgesetbuch. The removal of a silent company from the company law would not prevent such situations, since the shareholders of such relations would undoubtedly benefit from other institutions of contract law, which are largely in innovative economic practice. The deletion of a silent company would have previously contributed to the injury of the creditors of such a company, since, for example, the bankruptcy manager could not have challenged the return of the silent shareholder's return in the event of bankruptcy. At the same time, such legal arrangements would lead to reduced opportunities for the disclosure of silent companies known in certain cases rather than to their systematic abolition. Finally, the silent participant also participates in the loss of the company up to the level of its stake. In an alternative loan relationship, for example, a good form of loan insurance — for example a mortgage — can even be used as a priority to pay off bankruptcy by removing this property from it. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Companies Act would therefore be a bad decision. Social Democrats are convinced that we already have grounds in existing legislation for preventing, detecting and sanctioning conflicts of interest and abuse of the situation. The members of the management and control body shall, in carrying out their duties, act in the best interests of society with due regard for the faithful and fair economic operator. If a member of the management had entered into contracts with a company in which he was a silent participant and had thereby damaged the company and consequently the employees, he would have infringed his obligations and would have also been liable to the company in accordance with Article 263 of the Commercial Companies Act. However, it is a fundamental prerequisite for this to result in responsible action by supervisors, who must also bring an action against such a person. More. The abuse of society and its injury with a view to obtaining property benefits is a crime under Article 240 of the Penal Code, for which a prison sentence of up to five years is at risk. Our government has decided to take a more appropriate action. Cross-cutting coordination already includes a proposal for amendments to the Company Act, which deals in more detail and further with conflicts of interests between managers. Following these changes, the manager, executive director or procurator of the company must, if there is a conflict of interest in the conclusion of a legal transaction with a company to which the member or its immediate family member is a member, or if in any other way he is involved in the profits of that company, obtain the consent of the supervisory board in order to conclude such a legal transaction. In this way, the principle of transparency and transparency of companies' operations and the conclusion of business with other companies is better consolidated when conflicts of interest may arise. The task of the National Assembly is to adopt legislation responsibly as a legal framework for our co-existence in this community. A specific case may be the cause of new legislative initiatives, but it cannot be the only criterion for regulating relations within our community. The rule of law must have developed levers to detect, prosecute and assess liability. The rule of law is not an assembly in this House, but a consistent work by the competent institutions to carry out the tasks entrusted to them legally, fairly and effectively. In the so-called Toplek affair, this is first of all the Talum Supervisory Board, the authorities of the majority owner, Eles Slovenije, and last but not least the Capital Investment Management Agency. The existing legislation in this area, including the Penal Code, also gives the institutions of the judicial system every opportunity to respond to such cases and thus enforce equality before the law. In the meantime, the position of the Social Democrats is clear: we condemn any abuse found in the proceedings of the competent institutions and therefore they are and must also be the subject of our public condemnation. Such conduct is foreign to us, it is not our values, it is not our beliefs and it is not our policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Miro Petek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u24	Dear President of the National Assembly, Your Honor Minister! In the SDS Group, we have decided to table a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Companies due to the abuse of the Institute of Silent Society, and it does not indicate that we will support this law in our Group. In Slovenia, we are obviously not mature enough for the Institute of Silent Society, which is governed by the Law on Economic Companies, and today we are aware that this possibility of legislation has been foreseen for decades or even longer. For silent society has obviously been born in us and has also spread around economic or commercial companies not only to private companies, as provided for by law. In Slovenia, the initial capital accumulation has not yet ended. The interconnection of a ruling policy with a second phase of ownership and the swallowing of individuals who, as silent partners, hide in a wide variety of companies and at the same time sit in supervisory authorities or in leading positions of state or parastatal enterprises and institutions, contribute to the damage to state property and public interest. The implementation of these legislative changes will make it possible for the public to be principled and the principle of transparency is made possible for the public to be more transparent. Greater transparency, however, is a tool to prevent conflicts of interest and thus corruption. We believe that the case of Mr Toplek, Director of Talum, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NKBM State Bank and an influential member of the SD, is only the tip of the iceberg. There must be new known names hidden beneath the summit and the wide level, both from the political world and from the economy, which are not registered as a member of companies but participate in the profits of these companies. Quiet society and silent associates are just one of many instruments of looting. These companies allow individuals not to disclose their financial investments and are not entered in the register. Therefore, the silent partners have no obligation to creditors and the abolition of this institution would also adequately protect the business partners of an undertaking. According to our assessment, these associates could be found in those dedicated companies that operate largely with the state or state-owned banks. Why are these associates hidden? Why are they in some secret society? Of course it's a conflict of interest. Whoever has no conflict of interest, who has a pure conscience – of course, with a clear conscience we have great problems, especially where there is no conscience at all – can show and publish their shares in businesses at any time. Whoever hides something, who has a hairy conscience, in Slovenia in the field of entrepreneurship will reach out to the institution of a silent partner and avoid public control, and probably also tax and other institutions and controls. I own 660 shares in the evening newspaper myself. This is public knowledge, and I say it every time. I wonder how many silent associates are in this Chamber in different companies. Is there also an individual, a silent associate, associated with any of the companies associated with the SCT or with Primor, Ajdovščina or any other companies receiving or receiving huge and favourable loans to the State NLB or New KBM from Maribor? And that's such high credits that an entity, without connections and an appropriate political genetic record, can't even get in a dream. Above all, credits that were already known in advance or even agreed never to be repaid. The NLB is moving from rehabilitation to rehabilitation at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. It would be interesting to know if and in what quiet companies other New KBM supervisors or supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank participate. It would be interesting to know how many quiet societies the Minister, who has enriched Slovenia's political space with a culture of lies, which even the President of the country sets up and celebrates as a completely legitimate method of political struggle and political life in Slovenia. How many silent partnerships between companies operating with the country have a policy that is all-forgiving, all-forgiven, which must be given a new opportunity over and over again. The formula is relatively simple. On the one hand, from the position of authority in the State budget, to share transactions with different undertakings and, on the other hand, from the position of a silent shareholder in those same companies to participate in profits; or to run a state-owned undertaking and to give business to a private company where you are a silent participant. This is a gray field where some individuals find themselves very well without a compass, but of course no one knows, no one in this country knows how much of this is. Since this is dangerous work, where legislation is played carelessly, where law enforcement authorities are disabled, this must be limited in some way in the spirit of prevention. Transparency is the basis of the fight against corruption and in Slovenia silent society is certainly one of the causes of corruption, which is difficult to detect and expose. Although we do not pretend to be able to stop this practice completely with this change of law, we are confident that we will be able to limit it in any case. In order to cover up the conflict of interest today, and without the control of the relevant institutions, it will have to ask itself at least a modest question in the future: Is this worth it? If, in due course, there will be changes in the judicial system, which is the basis of the rule of law, then the potential offenders will certainly think twice about whether they are going to do so. According to newspapers, the most recent example of Toplek shows that silent partnerships — even more so — have been heard and read that it was a silent companion — are achieved even by blackmail. Clearly, blackmail in this country is not a crime and, when it is not in the interests of the ruling elite, neither are any attempted murder sanctions. Since in the game both the relative and the political connection of lawbreakers on the one hand and judges on the other, the epilogue of this case will, of course, be shameful and certainly a mockery of the rule of law. As state-owned businesses, where they are also dedicated to silent partners, are being auctioned, individuals are getting rich and there is no money in the country for public servants' salaries, pensions, health care. Transparency is also important because of relations with other business partners; trust in an enterprise also gives ownership structure to an individual company and, if silent partners in a company are frauds or even criminals, it will be a clear sign to business partners that business with such a company is more or less risky. As we have heard, the Government does not support this law, which is understandable because this law directly enters and interferes with the interests of its people. The palette of exploitation of political position and political power, family ties and connections, economic networks have grown around this country as a cancer. The political acquisitions of businesses and public institutions are in line. It is now the turn of RTV, which also adds a private character with the new law, so that we can draw on, exhaust profits and create new media tycoons. However, the serious and responsible government of today's bill should be delighted if it had the interest to lead this country out of the economic and moral crisis. Let us ask ourselves if we have ever done a serious analysis in this country of who gets most of the jobs in public competitions, where billions of state funds are involved. They're mostly the same companies. Are they really the best? Are they really the cheapest? Are all the others who have been rejected really that shitty? Does our public procurement and public procurement also ensure that there are no silent associates who, because of their other situation, would be in conflict of interest? For example, the President of the Government, his former business chief of staff, the Secretary-General of the Government, ministers, secretaries of state, all of us Members, and we could still be listed. No, we've never asked ourselves that question, and there's no such thing as a clause. However, there is a reasonable suspicion that the silent society of individuals who decide on the sharing of state money is quite widespread. There's a reasonable suspicion. If we also explored this phenomenon, we could get an answer on why there is so much corruption in this area, why there are some false needs for public procurement, why there are calls to which companies are later recognised as higher costs by the annex. All of this contributes to unjustifiable wealth created without own work, without knowledge, without innovation, to the damage of the budget; equality is created in society and the country. Let us ask ourselves, how much and who is a silent participant in those companies that have recently received state funds under the development aid law of Pomurje. So our country lacks transparency. Even in such cases, when we learn that the Minister of Radic is supposed to be related to the director of Boxmark and that this company will receive state resources because she will start sewing disguises in Koroška. In such a relative context, the favouring of Boxmark is placed in another light. We lack transparency, national pride, honesty and knowledge in foreign policy. The secret visit by the Prime Minister of one third, fourth secretary at the headquarters of the US Embassy is the slave humiliation for this country, not to mention the secret trade at the premises of this embassy, which may in the long run constitute huge problems. Is the president of the government or any minister possibly a silent associate of any American? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u25	May I have your attention and attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u26	companies? [[...]] Since we no longer have secret official papers, part of Slovenian politics is apparently collected in secret societies. Transparent and responsible governance is one of the main legal postulates of the rule of law. Responsible governance means making good decisions for all, not only for the elite chosen, but also for creating conditions for the economy, social, culture. Instead, the privileges, inequality, corruption, clientism; narcissistic, arrogant and self-confident, and, I will say, incompetent authority have been enriched in this country. I will end up free after Roosevelt: for this government, the obvious criterion for progress is how much will those who already have a lot and will have more, instead of ensuring enough for all those who have too little or have nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u28	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Members, we have given a lot of attention to the debate and to the formation of a position on the proposed amendment of the company law. In the Group of Members, we agree with the proposaler's position that it is necessary to prevent concealment and abuse, conflicts of interest in companies as a whole or in part state ownership, as this leads to a disguised damage to the state budget. We note, however, that the principles of transparency of business and integrity and integrity must also be applied throughout the area of corporate governance in Slovenia, both for companies owned by the country and for all other companies wholly privately owned. Unfortunately, in this proposal, it will be an obvious fact that the biggest opposition party wants to take advantage of the media effect by means of a bill, including for us the controversial behaviour of one of the company’s managers, which is owned by an economic company of which 100 % is the owner of the state. Even though the audit has not revealed illegality, it is our belief that there is a strong conflict of interest, and such conduct is unacceptable according to our estimates. Since the drafter of the Law has shown a lack of reflection on the best possible solutions in the drafting of solutions, the proposal will not be supported by the majority of Members of the law, Zares. We will not support the bill because the manager's behaviour would not seem disputed to us, but because the biggest opposition parliamentary group has decided on the worst possible solution, which is, indeed, the easiest. The simplest thing is to ban societies, while a much more diverse palette is a solution that is offered to us in a desire to eliminate similar controversial behaviours in the future. Applicants could, if they wanted to regulate only cases where the Director of a State Enterprise exploits the possibility of a silent partner for its own private interest, regulate them in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. In its Article 35, contracting entities operating under public procurement rules shall be subject to restrictions on the business of entities in which the contracting authority or its family member, a member of the management board or, directly or through other legal persons, is more than 5% involved in the establishment of rights, management or capital. The same could also apply to managers, directors and members of collective management bodies of all public undertakings and companies in which the majority of the state or local community has a share. And the proponents didn't do it. In our opinion, problems have been solved in an inadequate but media-bombing way. If I may make an example, they set out to hunt pheasants with an elephant-hunting rifle. The fact is, in the practice of a silent society, many times are abused and used for completely different purposes. The silent company also allows for the inadvertent exhaustion of companies by management, which are silent shareholders of companies benefiting from this type of exhaustion. They are often used to conceal the actual ownership of companies which, in combination with other contracts which do not have a basis in this law, also allow for influence on the management of the company and in this relationship establish so-called straw companies. Due to such deviants, consideration is being given to the abolition of silent companies on the spot, but it is necessary to determine whether this measure will actually prevent deviation. Therefore, it must be understood that the relationship between a silent shareholder and a silent company operator is similar to a lending relationship. The silent shareholder is similar to the lender who, instead of interest on the loaned amount, receives a share of the company’s profits. However, it differs from the lender by being involved in the loss of the company. In order to prevent the exhaustion of companies, the Company Act in its Article 8 is governed by the Institute of Preservation of Legal Persons, which also applies to the liability of a silent participant. Therefore, in the event that a member of the management would conclude contracts for a company in which he is a silent company and thereby harm the company and consequently the employees, he would be in breach of his obligation to act as a prudent, competent and fair host and would therefore be liable to the company in accordance with Article 263 of the Law. It is therefore very important that, on behalf of the company in such a case, supervisors act precisely by bringing an action of compensation. Of course, in practice it is difficult to predict or prove that such schemes are the result of specific silent ownership, since this is a cover-up to the public. Therefore, even more important is the perception of any harmful management by supervisors, which, in addition to seeking their responsibility for the act committed, actually makes it possible to disclose possible silent co-ownership. In this case, it is clear and clear that the abuse and injury of society with a view to obtaining property benefits constitutes an offence for which a prison sentence of up to 5 years is at risk under the Penal Code. In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that the Law on Companies in force does not contain provisions governing the issue of conflicts of interest. This area is regulated in our legal system only in the Public Stock Company Management Code, which unfortunately only applies to public companies, i.e. companies whose shares are listed in the securities market. In the Zares Group – a new policy, we believe that conflict of interest cannot be resolved simply by deleting a chapter on silent companies, since such a measure can only be a smoke screen that will conceal in the public eye the fact that the same reality can also be achieved in the future on the basis of other contractual relations, with much less legal protection than we know today. We are pleased that the Ministry of the Economy has prepared a new Law on Economic Companies to date, which regulates issues of conflicts of interests between management and the possibility of disclosing silent partners in a comprehensive and systematic manner. If the latter was the actual purpose of the applicants, I have no doubt that they share this satisfaction with us and will also support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem", and Anton Anderlich is to be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that from the many debates that have taken place in the context of the presentation of the opinions of the groups of Members, it is quite embarrassing to see quite a bit of serious reflection on the issue that we are facing today as a problem – the silent society and the silent society. It must be said that this is something that is present in the legal practice of many countries, and is one of those stories that you could say that in regulated capitalism, if I say so, has a function, has its purpose. It's just that it's some way someone decides how to invest their money. This works in regulated capitalism, has its positive effects, but of course it is – like many things in our adulterous state – that happens differently with us. With us, where we know that we have no regulated capitalism, but we can talk about vampirised capitalism for years, especially in the last period. This is where the matter happens, and it also kind of raises our concerns about what to do with this matter. It's a silent society, it's about someone investing money in a company like that. Here, I stress, it explicitly states that it is matters regulated within the framework of private companies – that we understand. But I think we need to find out why there is a silent society, because we can have a lot of concerns about some kind of hiding, some kind of hiding, for some different purposes, and not just the purpose of investing in investment funds, and, of course, the results that we get in this way. It is sad that anything is possible in this country and nothing surprises us anymore. Nothing surprises us. For the anomalies and violations and the play of good marriage solutions are simply enough for all of us to marvel. That's why we're either normal or, I'll say, people who think primarily with honest intentions are simply faced with big questions or to maintain some legal form that might have positive effects. I have to say that I have not been convinced that there is a great surplus because we have quiet societies in Slovenia and that this company has a great deal of it and that entrepreneurship flourishes in this way and in this sense. Therefore, it seems to me that there will be no great harm if the silent society is removed for so long that this society can actually do what we have been talking about today; when we are able to establish the right levers of control – at this point we all know that we are very weak and that we daily find out how these things are getting out of our hands. When we are able and we have confidence that proper judicial protection will be ensured and things will not get old in court, as is the case in the case of Satex, which is ridiculed by the whole society, and that prosecution of such cases will also be regulated. At this point, I believe that this company, which has some difficulties in establishing this supervisory moment, will always be played out. Unfortunately, everything that is capable of corruption in this country and people with unlimited imaginations of how to play the country, how to avoid and benefit from things that have been written and law-abiding for a good purpose — there is no such thought in this society right now. They dominate – and I hope that they will soon experience their end in some way – so-called entrepreneurs and so-called economists who are far from being able to deal with this title, which could have a lot of positive connotations. Given that I did not detect and detect any great surpluses, any outstanding positive matters, even on many of the questions I have asked, whether this would be any great harm if this matter were interrupted in Slovenia by this bill in a way that I do not see in the law, I will not see any proposal for a law to put an end to the silent society and the silent society.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much. He'll get the word "magic." Andrej Vizjak as a proponent. The next speaker is mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Especially in recent times, let's say a year or two, we have witnessed a number of economic affairs. Many directors have inherited their intentions to harm businesses and shareholders. They also fell for the consequences of the crisis, the hard-to-access capital and the impossibility of financing their intentions. So we're falling out of an affair. We hear that there are house investigations today with owners or leading Mercury and so on. But what good does it do us, sir, when there is neither one nor one court epilogue anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, money has been spent, money has been put abroad, our investigative authorities are working, working, and making a few wrinkles. And, Your Honor, most of all, in order to prevent deviants and economic crime, we could do so by having effective justice and by clearing up every affair as quickly as the Happy Friend case has been cleared. If economic crime were and experienced a legal epilogue in, say, a period of six months, years, then probably this crime would be less, and at the same time would not force others who have these quilts to serve their own interests, innovative approaches and harm shareholders and workers. But since there are no court epilogues, we will witness this in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to eliminate one of the eclectic deviant cases of economic crime and possible abuses of conflict of interest, so we propose deleting the possibility of silent partners and silent societies. Why? Because of the obvious involvement of the institutions and important politicians in and in the quiet society. We have this problem today and here, so we want to eliminate it. But I hear some say that this is a good goal, but that the asset is unhappy or that it could do more damage, as other contractual relationships are possible. That's not true, Your Honor! You haven't read the law. Please read the sixth section of the law, which says that all legal transactions must be entered into the court register. Everyone, if they don't, is broke. I'll read every relationship between honey, if you haven't read it yourself. This is Article 6 of the Act: "For entry into the register of the court, every legal transaction must be declared and acts annexed to which a person with an investment in an undertaking of someone else is entitled to participate in a profit." Since it can not only be an asset, we have a second or the following paragraph: "It is necessary to register any contractual relationship and to attach acts governing any relationship between the shareholders and between the partner and the company." A legal transaction or a contractual relationship that is not in line with what I have read is null and void. So it is not true that there are options if this matter is not regulated through the GNI, that contracts and legal transactions will flourish in a different way. They can, but they'll be nothing. What in law means nothing, and we all know it. In fact, we want to eliminate contractual relations that are not registered in the Court Register. If there is a light case, please tell me, if there is any possible case that concealing a contractual relationship has a positive effect on society, please tell me – I do not know it. It is also the fact that if a person participates in a profit with a real investment, it is all a matter of a contract between a member and a company that is already being made possible by the Company Act. In fact, this silent society is specific only because it allows for concealment, concealment and abuse of conflicts of interest and also abuse of others. Why would someone hide? We picked up an important SD member with fingers in marmalade who ran on SD lists, who, in fact, was the long-standing director of Talum, Mr Danil Toplek, who was a silent social partner of the Ptuj Construction Company and wanted to have at once without a stake, without having anything to do with EUR 10 million or EUR 5 million, because he allowed the Ptuj Construction Company to be in the hands of a certain private company, and because he did not prevent the Ptuj Construction Company from suffering damage and was otherwise sanctioned because in that part of Slovenia, this "God and Beating". So today and here we have an eloquent case of abuse of the management of a state-owned enterprise for such and other personal cases. And you're saying that we can do some damage if we stop this option, but at the same time, you don't tell us what kind of a case might be a shame if someone like a silent companion is hiding somewhere. You say that it is also possible to conclude a legal transaction, to hide, and if this regulation were to be abolished, it would be even more decomposing. No! No! It would not be because such legal transactions and such contracts are null and void. I also allow the possibility of this law being upgraded, yet to be rectified, but we can do so if we let it go forward in the next parliamentary procedure. And you're talking about someone having to be honest and swear before the authorities, and I don't know where to reveal myself. We have a minister of this current government who has not been disclosed to the public – for example. Yes, of course, Mr President of the National Assembly, the anti-corruption commission has been made public and has not disclosed its share in Ultra. That's a fact, that's a fact. That's right! Move or not, we probably have a different opinion on this, but whatever. Lying and pretending by many people is enough, and you will naively continue to believe that all managers will tell you where they are, regardless of all the secret acts they have hidden in the background. But if they find him, he'll come up with something, just like this particular minister is making up a new apology every time: he says he doesn't have a job, he says he doesn't have a business product, and so on. If there's gonna be silent associates swimming around the clock, including at the Chestnut Termoelectricarium and somewhere else, I'm not gonna be anything weird. Why not bring all these contracts to the public within 30 days of the adoption of this Act and commit the parties to register them in the Register of Justice? Why? These contracts can stay! Someone said how we're going to break up these contractual relationships and so on. You don't have to tear them apart, you just have to register them in the court register so we can see these things. Therefore, it is not a matter of breaking up contractual relations, but merely of transparency, clarity and knowledge to all those who must be in the country, especially taxation. As much as it took some money from the State Treasury to hide it, God knows. When the Commission called on the Government to invite the directors, members and presidents of the supervisory boards of state companies to tell them whether they were silent partners – I think the least they could do – the government said they were not competent to ask. In the same breath, however, the government was responsible for interfering with the same people’s salaries six months ago, and for a year! She was competent to interfere in wages, I agree, and she is competent to ask them if there are any silent associates. She's decent. And we have the answer to the Commission by the Government, if they don't ask, because there is no legal basis for that. Fine. Why isn't there a marriage basis? It's a legal basis. The only problem is that he's not in the mood and he's scared and afraid of what would happen on the day. What would we find out is where all these esteemed directors are with their fingers and their pockets? So it can be said if it is not systemic, it is not that, it is not that, it will be better prepared, but at the same time it is not known how or how barren solutions are proposed that will allow this concealment to happen in the future. Well, actually, the vote will show who belongs where.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! The law that we have before us undoubtedly shows an extremely positive purpose, to address the possible consequences of abuses in the field of silent societies in the sense that taxes are concealed, that internal information is used, so that property owned by a State can be used in one way or another for purposes not legally justified or justified. In this respect, it is good that it has been submitted, even though the opposition Members. In any case, it can also be seen in this proposal that the adoption of the law, as proposed, could have negative consequences by immediately or almost immediately abolishing the silent companies, in the sense that in a firm that is allowed to operate by a silent partner, there could be dismissal of workers, the loss of employment of some workers, not only the profits that they can earn from this title, but also the wages themselves. However, I must say that it is precisely these things that we need to look at in such a way as to amend the Company Act in such a way that silent societies can still remain, but so that there is no possibility of abuse and the negative consequences of their operation. In this sense, the least that this proposal has brought is that the Government will seriously and, hopefully, prepare the necessary law as soon as possible, which will be better than that, and which will have all the mechanisms in place so that abuses and anomalies will not occur. I think that the problem is not actually in silent societies, but in the chronic irresponsible conduct of supervisory boards and administrations of companies owned by the State or co-owned by the State. Here it would suggest increasing the responsibility to the extent that the abuse described as an example would not occur. That is why we were at first in the parliamentary group, but now that we have the assurance that the government will come up with a better solution, we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There's a word for Lois Posedel. Get Joseph Jerovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the presentation of the Group's position, it was said that support for this proposal would be different. At the outset, I would like to say that I greatly appreciate and admire the Minister's work and motivation, but I regret that in this particular case the position of the Government is such that this proposal of the SDS is not suitable for further consideration. I think it would be helpful if we accepted this proposal; especially in this part, which we follow in society, when we hear too many hints from the proponents, so many suspicions, so many accusations, so many discredits already – even in the presentation of the SDS position, it was suggested that the minister's uncle was supposedly the owner of a certain company. This is all that poisons this society and this trust of people who are completely lost and will only increase in this way. I wonder very much whether such a proposal would be made by the SDS party even if it were in power in this mandate. I'm sure you don't. If I had these fair purposes, which fall within the scope of this proposal, I would have made such a proposal within the previous term. If I also believed in the honest intentions of a fellow Visian who asked why the Government did not ask ministers, secretaries of state and other officials whether they were silent participants – I do not believe in fair purposes. If these were honest intentions, Mr Vizjak could ask as a member of the previous government the former ministers, former State secretaries, not only whether they are silent participants, but also whether they have leased very favourable loans to state banks. We also know the case of the Secretary of State, just at the time of the previous government, with very favourable loans. That's why I'm not so sure of this honesty. Nevertheless, this proposal, in order to make it easier for the proponents, will personally support precisely for the reason that this question will not continue, how many of us silent partners are there in this Parliament, in this government, and in this way we may also be able to come to an end with this suspicion and this speculation. Personally, I am convinced that silent society is a very positive thing, but in an orderly situation of regulated capitalism. What we have in Slovenia is far from regulated capitalism, it is wild not to say anything else. Wild capitalism is due to a transition where it is not a matter of government or political options, but that a lot is going on during this period, which is not appropriate. Therefore, it is also legally regulated in various areas – even silent society is perfectly regulated in our legislation, but we see these anomalies. I am sure – not only because of this case that the SDS party gave in explanation or was given by the proponents – that there are more of these cases. Nor do I believe that all other cases of silent property are fair. Therefore, during this period nothing would have been wrong if a silent society were to be abolished, such as the proposal of the applicants, and could be reinstated later when matters were settled, because this is a way that is established abroad and that works if these social standards, business standards, are to be applied, is to be significantly higher than is currently the case in Slovenia. Therefore, the reference to the responsibility of the oversight councils is a little funny, given the very inward examples of how irresponsible the supervisory councils act in certain cases, how they abandon their functions, or whether the administration, as it was said, is a few steps ahead of the supervisory board, or whether it is all together — the administration and the supervisory council — a beautiful happy family. I am therefore convinced that it would be good to do this verification in this area. I also believe in the Minister's words that additional legislation will be ready shortly. Madam Minister, I believe that, nevertheless, the proposal will be put to the vote in such a way that you will have to fulfil your promises under the law, because I do not believe that this proposal will be given a green light for further consideration today, in which those things which are also poorly resolved by the proposing parties, the right withdrawal, which could also cause any harm to the silent participants, should probably be extended in the process at that time, so as not to cause any harm to any of these partners or to the carrier of the company. Personally, I am sure, I repeat that in this way, we would stop this poisoning of the atmosphere and labeling everyone who opposes such a proposal, like those who hide, who lie, who do everything someone sees fit to do. On such a reading, however, I cannot help but recall the proverb that says – otherwise it is not the most beautiful, but it is very talkative – that pigs think pig thoughts. That is why I will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u38	Thank you very much. There's probably some things that need to be cleared up. The first is that there is no problem of silent co-operation between officials such as ministers and secretaries of state, such as Members and so on. For this is already regulated in anti-corruption legislation and they must testify and submit all their information on society and so on. I myself understand the anti-corruption law and the urgency of saying so-called silent companies. So, honourable Mr Posedel, it is not a matter of whether the Minister is a silent participant and so on, whether the authorities are the management and control authorities, as it were said at home, the directors of state companies and supervisors of state-owned companies who are not committed to providing the anti-corruption commission with anything but also have more assets than many ministers. If I compare, say, one director of energy society, Telekom, Petrol or any other company with the Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world, then we can think about the financial background of both. It is these people who have a lot of investment money and have a lot of influence and are also significantly longer than the eyes of all these anti-corruption institutions. That's the scoundrel. This hill is today and here, this is not something hypothetical as my fellow Member, Mr Pukšič, czech, Minister, you can do this! [[...]] Mr Toplek was a silent associate of a silent associate because he expected for his influence, I don't know what kind of stake in the company, then cash compensation for his engagement. It has clearly been articulated in the form and amount of EUR 5 million. That's what happened! The honourable Member of the Posed, probably not likely, would certainly be as the minister of the previous government, and the parliamentary group would probably also be sending such a proposal if it were to detect such a problem. This problem broke out a month or two ago. It was hidden. He was hidden because the law allowed him to hide. This is what we want to prevent in the future for all; these, those, blue, green, white, black, red and I don't know which ones yet. Therefore, all relations in an economic society are transparent to the public, to shareholders, to workers, accessible and that all these contracts and impacts on society are clear and visible. That's what we want to do. What I heard earlier as a proponent is quite funny; that now the abolition of a silent society could cause difficulties in certain companies in order for silent partners to withdraw. I will tell you a specific case where silent society is negative, but please tell me one or half case if you know it, where the abolition of silent society could be harmful. I really don't know him! I believe you don't know him either, because that associate who has some noble purpose and invested in the company certainly wants to be involved in the management of this company and is a normal partner, not a silent partner, a hidden associate. I don't know the case of someone giving money to hide, and I wouldn't have a word in management. I wouldn't even have a share in the capital. For once again, silent society in this typical form – it is only a loan or some credit relationship of an individual to society to give it money and expect it through dividends back. This is essentially the concept and purpose of this silent society. Not participating in the capital, not owner, co-owner of the company, as well as limited, very limited or almost nothing in the management, just information about certain things. Just informing about the company's business and so on. One example please tell me, one who says how much damage would be done by the abolition of a silent society.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Jožef Jerovšek has the word to prepare Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u41	Mr. Jerovšek, it's a replica. Loyze Posedel replica, please. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. My colleague Vizjak asks about positive examples of silent partnership, of this property, of society. See, this is such a question that sounds good, but it is difficult to answer or impossible to answer. Since this would not have been positive, these good effects of silent society in the Western world would not have been the case. Yes, it is! And it works very well, and I'm sure it can or will be with us someday. At the moment, when this silent society is being used not to invest capital in society, but to draw from this society, this is therefore a problem and therefore it is an unrealistic question for good cases because they certainly remain. However, such flat-rate treatment of silent companies is harmful. Therefore, there was also a warning, certainly some cases that entered the silent society in order to do some good work for the basic society and need to be reviewed. Surely, the 30-day deadline, as proposed in your proposal, is too short and can theoretically be created. However, if the extension of this period and the determination of what happens when your proposal is implemented, this damage, possibly, could be remedied. Therefore, the very question of positive cases is certainly not to be answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. And now Joseph Jerovšek, followed by Ljubo Germič. Please, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! We have before us the proposal to abolish the silent society, the Institute for the Abuse of State Property and the Fraud of State Property. Following a presentation of an opinion on this law by Mrs Minister and Party SD, Social Democrats, where a silent associate Mr Toplek has run for the National Assembly and we note that his protector was Mr Levanic, I am concerned. The government and this party obviously support money laundering, financial fraud. Protecting irregularities. Madam Minister and others, I ask whether some senior government officials and government coalitions are part of a set that strangles Slovenia, which it has already brought to the brink of collapse, and some are rich and sunbathing on yachts. It is more than obvious – after what the Government has presented to us in its opinion, against a solution that would only make it more difficult on one small segment to damage state property and prevent a conflict of interest that is obviously being abused by senior officials and directors. Since Mr Toplek has violated Article 263 of the ZGD-1 so far, because he has entered into contracts with a company in which he is a silent partner, and because he has also violated the second sub-point of the Public Company Management Code because he has not made a statement to the Supervisory Board on the existence of a conflict of interest, today the Minister should say here: "Through the owner of Eles, who owns 80% of the Talum, we will do our best to replace Mr Toplek as Director as soon as possible." No! No! And you're protecting! I know that some secretaries of the first version of this company law have written — some secretaries of state, lawyers — and have already deliberately written in such a way as to cheat. At the time, there were those State Secretarys in LDS. And of course: none of this! Today, when we heard about the investigations in Mercury, I ask the Minister or those responsible in this country whether Mr Toplek is a silent associate of Mercury. Because if it is, this share was bought with Talum's money. Because in 2007, from a factory where I had been employed for 20 years, I was told that there was a directive that all the materials that had previously been purchased at competitive prices in Tallum from different suppliers should be purchased in Mercury at higher transfer prices. Competition has been banned. Where did the transfer money go? Are we naive? It's got to be where he went! Directors who exploit their position as director are also silent shareholders of the companies they operate with. I must say that I am sick of talking about the machinations and damages of state property by Mr Toplek, about his financial frauds, the attempts at wild property, the exploitation and manipulation of workers, the transmissions of society's money for political influence. I'm sick because I was alone there for 20 years in this joint venture and I was a victim, and they pushed me out of society, even though I was a technical director, because I had twice prevented the wild ownership of the physical half of the former clay and aluminium factory, now Talum and Silk, and I know how it worked in the years since 1988 when Mr. Toplek became director, and how you're always supporting him. It is extremely painful for me to talk about, but I think that because of thousands and thousands of humiliated and cheated people in Slovenia, I have to talk about it. That's what I was talking about in front of this booth in the old hall when I came in as an MP when I asked then Minister Draganjo where the money went from Tallum when in a year and a half the price of raw aluminium rose from $1,000 to $3,000. At the time, the dollar was as valuable as today's euro. At the same time, an investment opened up, MPPAl said it was 300 million marks, a $150 million loan. The engineers in this big factory thought that he paid off by selling 150 thousand tons at least at a price that allowed at least a thousand dollars of net profit, that that money was the same amount as the loan for that MPPAl, that it was paid. After I became a Member, I saw that only one annuity had been paid, and the other went to public debt. 100 million of today's euros are left somewhere. That was what I was talking about to the finance minister at the time — and everyone was looking away. Today the minister would rather go out than listen and act here. Perhaps Mr Director has become a silent partner or co-owner in the same way, he says, "with intellectual counseling". Even in 1992, he wanted to own that part of the factory, half the factory, by bringing the Austrians into a recapitalisation that would invest – but not money, technology! When I figured out and saw, even though I was the director in that part that this technology was the one that I developed and the other developed and it "flighted" and it brought in in that year out of zero 27 million marks of money, I stopped it through the Ministry, and through the fund that was the owner, there was a lot of trouble. But such ones are still rewarded; he was rewarded under this government with the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor and, as such, he violated the Takeover Act when he bought the shares of Mercury – I guess to save his assets – at twice the market price of the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank. Instead of replacing Mr Križanič with such a supervisor who seems to think only of how to damage state property, he would not take action. In addition, I ask, it is said in the factory and everywhere that he is co-owner or silent owner of the Bank Factor, which is everywhere involved and which is the nest of SD’s senior co-owners. And the secretary protects the embezzlement. Instead of giving my vote to get this law into a second reading and the Ministry to complete it and the government to complete it. No! No! They will do everything to prevent them from protecting their personnel, their candidates in the elections and those they also finance in the campaigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Germič has the floor to prepare Mr Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! In the media and even through this debate today, we are, in fact, constantly plagued by various cases, in what way we can witness or witness to the suspicion that there is damage to social property, that is, state property. I myself support and will always support these debates, that the extent of any deviation beyond the laws decreases to a minimum or zero level. That is how I understand this debate here today. For understanding this in public today is no longer possible to talk about major abuses in various areas, but the question remains open, whether these suspicions and certain actions, if committed, will also be properly sanctioned. Today we are witnessing an attempt to delete certain provisions of a law governing some legal relationship in companies that function normally in developed European systems. Is it really possible for us in Slovenia to say that if we have and then we cannot manage that, the only solution is to delete it. My question and my concern go in this direction: do supervisory institutions function in those arrangements that we normally can expect to work for. Regrettably, and let's just ask ourselves, in cases both in the sky and in the public eye, which supervisory authorities have borne any responsibility for any decision that may have been disputed. For me, there's a key problem. If the proposal that I have supported and voted in favour of the Government will only be resolved in a way that will now need to strengthen the supervisory function, then I am skeptical whether this will be the right measure. For if supervisory functions are not performed in the sense that they are intended and intended, then the text will be back on paper, while reality and practice will be significantly different. Surely this home must tell the public that it is in his great interest to see all the anomalies settled. Not to automatically exclude them from life, but to install them in a way that will work effectively and achieve such a degree of trust and business culture, that it will not only be a key interest to own a certain asset, but also to use all levers beyond the official institutions of control and so on, and we will only end up finding out how we are pooring state property. As it is also difficult to understand from this point of view that we have set up a new capital investment management body owned by the State, and we are still late for realisation. I therefore expect that certain cases will receive an epilogue, that responsibilities will be clearly defined and where responsibility has not been carried out, also duly sanctioned. Of course, I do not understand the solution simply by removing from the laws all the possible forms that are already established in the modern world with a certain business culture and that can work, but from the things that should be implemented and recorded in the law, we flee with one, both legs or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fact is that silent societies elsewhere in the world are a perfectly legal legal form, and as such we cannot all simply ad hocly be considered harmful in advance. I understand the good purpose of the proposer and support every step and means to make order and transparency in this area, all with a view to preventing fraud and manipulating legal provisions and regulations. Such a legal organization is no legal exception and in itself cannot be the only cause of abuses such as this case in the Talum. I'm sure there's still a lot of cases like this in our country. I would strongly recommend that the Ministry of the Economy, in the shortest possible time, take care of appropriate measures, as promised today by the Minister, all with a view to securing public property, to disclose such silent members of the Slovenian public and to ensure that appropriate legislation is made possible. It should also be linked, if necessary, to the law enforcement authorities and the Ministry of Justice. The silent society itself does not in fact constitute a disturbance in the legal system and the Slovenian professional public will certainly oppose the deletion of the provisions concerning silent companies. Because such a measure, as has already been mentioned in the presentation of the position of Slovenian National Party colleague Barovic, will also cause many negative effects and consequences. Here I am referring to interference in the interests of those who use such a form of economic society fairly and legally, in order to realize their entrepreneurial interests without harming anyone or in any way damaging the company's property. Such a society is actually harmful when it causes conflicts of interest and therefore has negative effects in the public financial field. Such rascals, such as the one from the Talum, will soon find themselves and find new semi-legal and hidden ways to elevate their money at the expense of another and, as we see recently, it is mainly the state or all taxpayers' citizens, who are the last to be harmed. That is why, as elected representatives of all citizens, we feel responsible and demand from all the competent ministries and indirectly from other competent authorities to protect the property of taxpayers, which is what is left of them in general, to prevent such villains from unjustifiably enriching and at the same time impoverishing all other honest Slovenians and Slovenes. It is not too much for the competent ministries to first review all existing silent companies and participating stakeholders; those that fall within the provisions of conflict of interest shall make public and shall act as soon as possible to avoid further damage because it is sad that journalists find and detect such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Grill has the floor to prepare for Mr Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! It's really sad that in the last year, almost a day goes by when in the media we can actually track the horror at the expense of many abuses in companies. In fact, this is already much worse than reading the black chronicle, and this is what eats up the national economy or even contributes much to the fact that Slovenia is getting deeper and deeper into the crisis. Let's ask ourselves how that's possible. If we do a little bit of analysis of a number of laws from the self-sustainment ahead, we can see that many times — I have a feeling that even on purpose — legislation has been made flawed, with so many shortcomings, deliberately embedded holes that can also be implemented. Many times, under some cover of personal data protection, it is not possible for those competent institutions to access data that would allow them to pursue, and especially to detect and prosecute, all forms of economic crime. One of such possible abuses is certainly also this silent society, which in itself has been deliberately taken from the German legal order, but in some way hopes that it will be a form of society that will serve an honest purpose. But apparently that's not the case. Therefore, all those here today who try to challenge the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to simply erase such a way of society from the law mention that some damage can be done in this way. What kind of damage? No harm will be done, for those who have read the law may find that those who want to cooperate with a society can make a capital contribution or contribute a share and expect something from it to conclude another contract. Otherwise, but provided that this is introduced into a public register or a court register. That's the point of public access. Unfortunately, in Slovenian society, the public or what is in the public eye is the only guarantee that there will be no abuse. In this case, I am sure that all those who want to do business in this way will also continue to do business, only change. But it is certainly true that many who abuse this system – but not workers who want to participate in this way – will be those powerful people in positions that have a source of information that has a source of capital that has a decision-making ability and thus an opportunity to abuse. Probably, if such a law were to be passed, it would be really interesting to see how many of these people are, especially those who have abused such a way. I agree with the control that the country should have in the first place where it has a majority share in order to set up competent, responsible supervisors, who would also monitor such matters in order to prevent this. But if it is placed by overseers who are probably not part of this task or even part of this spider’s network, it will certainly not be detectable. Today, I did not see in the government's report or the government's opinion that the government will prepare a solution here that will also address this. Somethin' thinkin' about some kind of surveillance-enhanced function. I'm sure that won't be introduced. If today were to begin, in a year, two, with such a law — if only a little goodwill — it could be arranged in the shortest possible time. Therefore, I am truly surprised by all those debaters who say that this law cannot be supported, that it would be a shame that I do not know what will happen here. That's not true! Let will be done here, and we will see how much this will contribute to greater transparency, less abuse and, above all, nothing to the detriment of the state budget. On the contrary! In this way, there will certainly be a great deal of tax evasion, fraud. In this way, such an institution could also receive those funds which are also taxed to it. So, let's show good faith, let's confirm this law for further consideration and add any corrections. It's not some populism law. We all find that this is a social problem, and this is a big problem. With a little good will, it can be solved. I am very happy that we have prepared and tabled this law, but I think all those who will then recognize that the National Assembly is also willing to contribute in this way to the abolition of such anomalies.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This debate today and the same proposal for the amendment of the Law on Economics reminds me of a discussion that was held years ago about student vouchers when one of the Committee's debates showed when one of them abused student sales vouchers and the idea came to an end of student vouchers. I think it was a very difficult discussion that, due to the abuse that has also been determined in percentages, up to 20% of the vouchers are being misused for these purposes, that this thing remains because it is only the majority of those who need these vouchers. Therefore, it can be the legitimate way of working on this legislative body, that it also adopts laws or changes laws, that in one case we go and completely end the institution – in this case the institution of this quiet society. Indeed, the applicant himself stated in the introduction as the former Minister of Economy that when we had a difficult discussion in the National Assembly about the new GDD1, this remained in because they did not have an analysis of the good and the bad, and that that is why it remained in there and that there is no such analysis today, but there is an example on the basis of which they came up with the proposal that this institution should be completely deleted. I believe that the intention of the proposer to amend the law to the greatest extent possible – I hope that this is – to eliminate the possibility of abuse of this institution and that this is perfectly legitimate and, last but not least, to add this word, is probably also well-intentioned. I won't speculate politically. But the question is, what is the only way to do it? Is this way to completely wipe out this institution enough to eliminate all the anomalies that are happening in this area? Here I would make only one comment, which was previously said, because if we abolish this institution, individuals and legal persons can have the opportunity to remain in these companies with a contract. I ask, on the basis of which the articles of the Economic Services Act, now those who are silent shareholders can remain and participate in this same contract, modified and registered, on profits and are also responsible for loss if this company or this company is in loss. If we can automatically, without amending the company law, ensure that this same partner enters into this new relationship. Therefore, I believe that, on the basis of this abuse that has taken place in the Talum, it should have occurred in the Talum and that there is an objective suspicion that it is a violation of the social property and that it is a personal benefit here, then it is applicable and should be put into effect in the procedure of Article 240 of the Penal Code and, lastly, Article 263 of the Law on Economic Companies sanctioning these things. For officials who have been given a lot of talks today, I think the new integrity law that we have adopted is quite clear. But the new law on integrity also has important directors or presidents of companies or companies that are majority state-owned; they are also considered to have to report all their assets and everything to the anti-corruption commission, like all other officials. That's why I'm more attracted to the government's opinion. If I understand correctly, the government already has a proposal in inter-departmental coordination to amend the law of the ZGD, which would elevate both the company law and maybe some other law to prevent such abuses. In short, I am on this side that we are not going with such a radical action, even though it has been said today that we are not yet ripe for the establishment of a quiet society institute. I must say, we have yet to mature in regulating these capitalist social relations. If we do so, then we will really come to the opinion delivered today by the representative of the Slovenian National Party, so that we can finally come up with a proposal to abolish the whole company law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Vizjak spoke as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u54	Thank you very much. There's a lot to explain. Firstly, the fact that the creation of the company law has always had to be weighed between regulation and the freedom of an entrepreneurial initiative, since regulation also needs to see that you do not over-regulate matters and thus restrict the economic initiative. We must be aware that we have many very good cases of private and state capital management in Slovenia. We have a lot of good companies. But we also have some deviant phenomena. The problem that I mentioned at the outset is that those supervisory institutions, in particular the whole judicial system from beginning to end, did not respond to this at some point in time and did not sanction all deviant phenomena, so they escalate. If the justice system were to act, it would probably not be a witness to new and new affairs. These affairs hurt people, hurt those who have actually contributed very much to these companies and, not least, to the economy at all; they are employees, they are the ones who have always drawn the shortest. These quiet companies are similar. Why do we want to end this deviation? We do not want to eliminate the contractual relationship between society and the social partners. We just want these to be transparent and public, so that they also allow for all the indirectly-tangular insights into this relationship. Therefore, if you read Article 6, it is not least clear that all legal relations are possible, but that they must be entered in the register. Therefore, I see no problem in bringing existing legal relations between the parties to court registers under this Article of the Act [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's not. It's not. All cooperation, because we are talking about parts in particular here, is regulated by one or the other agreement and the relationship between them. That's why I don't really see the problem here. I would point to something else that happened; if, in this case, the silent company of Mr Toplek has no proven injury, or if it were suspected, you are obliged to declare it in such a and different way, then the functionaries are subject to a provision not to allow the existence of a conflict of interest at all, which prevents us from being both an official and an associate at the same time, or that all these relations should also be reported. [[...]] We want this prevention to extend also to the area of the management and control bodies of companies. We also wanted to know – this should be underlined three times – from the Government in order, in fact, to her own people, whom she indirectly and directly placed in the authorities of management and control to find out whether they were any silent associates. This is insane for me that the government doesn't want to find out from them, nor has it tried. If any director would say, "Listen to the government, on what legal basis do you ask me?" I'd like to know which director would give this to you. Would Mr Svetelšek, say, from Petrol, tell the government, "Where do you ask me why you care?" Would you let me know? But we would know more than we know, and perhaps even some deviant phenomenon with which our economy was shot would be prevented. That's what this is all about. I am sure that with this law – it can also be true that the 30-day period of transition from one to another can be too short. We could also write a 45-, 60-day deadline. This is all a matter of further procedure. Other security guards may be added in the further procedure for dealing with this law. Only today will it be crucial whether we release this law for further consideration or whether we will reject it at the start in the initiative. At the end: it is said that some ZGD is already very far away. I expected that, in the Government's opinion on this law, something about this new GDD would be written; if, the proponents of your text were wrong, we are proposing better solutions, both of them and such, and this would be the opinion of the Government. I can't see that. I do not even see in this opinion any announcements by the Government of a new amended company law. If he's in preparation, I'd really like to know which way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while, 'cause there's not enough time. I believe that the abolition of the Institute of Silent Companies would not have resulted in any disaster. Because I don't know how many Slovenians actually know what quiet society is, at least not the honest-thinking Slovenes. It is true that if controls were to be better and the supervisory authorities and judicial authorities acted as they should, this law would not be necessary. But since we know that there will be no more time, we have only proposed this law. It is also true that this law will not completely eliminate these anomalies, abuses and corrupt acts, but at least we will not legalise them. I am convinced that the proposal for a law is good and worthy of first reading support. That's what I'm going to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Kampuz has the floor to prepare Mr Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u58	Honorable Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, professional associates! Yes, in the world silent society is normal and is also recognised in Europe and in all the legal features of all our neighbouring countries are present. Thus, in this sense, I only see in this sense some political grips in which, in some way, in Slovenia, we would like to make it impossible for us to do so in all the peripeties that even sometimes happen. If you listen a little bit to the views of entrepreneurs, which I hear a lot of times, this is not in any way normal and they do not agree to this at this point in Slovenia. There are also silent societies in different forms in the world, in different forms of contractual obligations or contractual terms or forms, and this is in some way also welcome for the development of entrepreneurship, crafts and even large companies. I've also heard that there are a lot of holes in our current legislation concerning the GDD. Yes, exactly as you say! But you have to be aware that holes are everywhere and that once our country has been there for about a hundred years, there will be no more holes. That is why — just as we do in the National Assembly — we need to go in this direction many times to get as few of them as possible; and with each reception, we have as few of them as possible. That is why I also support the Ministry of Economy at this point, which has explicitly explained today that there is a need to tighten the control of silent companies and not to completely eliminate them. If I were to try to say a few more words about the Company Act. Our marriage is clearly written and is appropriate for our time at this time. However, I agree with the Government's proposal that the law should not and cannot be simplified, and that some chapters should be deleted as proposed today, which is probably ridiculous. However, it is necessary to proceed with the revision of the Company Act and to examine these silent partners and other things in particular, to slightly amend them and to harmonise them with other countries in the European Union. Today I feel almost as if it were from the debates of some – I will call them so – tense to feel that it would be the easiest thing for some directors, entrepreneurs, associates and I do not know who else to close. Everything! I don't know how you can imagine who would have any interest in working in this economy. Who will have an interest in working in this economy? It is logical, however, that thousands of cases also have a deviation, as has been said before, but that is why we have a judicial system, so we have legislation to sanction such deviations, if they do happen, even if they do happen. Thus, from this context, I cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Magajna, let Mr. Rozje get ready. Excuse me, Mr Magajna, Mr Vizjak has appeared as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u60	I'll be very brief. Of course, I have devoted a lot of energy to this proposal, and I am not aware of any position taken by entrepreneurs to oppose the proposal of this law. I would like to ask Mr Kampush, who earlier said that entrepreneurs object to presenting this document to me, this decision of any association of entrepreneurs who are against it. However, it is likely that the association or the silent partnership may object.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u62	Your Honor! What can I say in 30 seconds, as long as I can? Say hello to the minister? Yeah, I would if I were in the gym, but I'm still gonna call her out. What the Commission has already already said for the supervision of public finances: "Get information, check the volume of silent companies in your supervisors." Emphasis — with its supervisors — wherever the country has a majority or partial share or even the only share. He can do it, he can't say it: we can't, we won't, we won't. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Rogers. [[He's not here.]] Weber, Slapnik. [[They're gone.]] Mr. Trophynic. [[Not at all.]] Mr Han, Franco Juri, Matevž Frangež [[Not at all.]] A representative of the government. [[It's not.]] Mr. Visjak, would you like another word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate in the framework of the applications. However, the time set for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask whether, under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah, I can see the hands, so I'm opening up an application for discussion. Mrs. Jeraj, please, you have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. We have shown the proposers at least one example when it turns out that silent societies are a problem. Even though this is just one case, we can ask ourselves whether tomorrow we will not have a new affair, a new story, and there will be a new case until the government finally assesses that something might have to be done. The government or the minister said that the law was not suitable for further consideration, so that if this had happened, things would have been carried out in an uncontrolled manner. I have a feeling that we haven't really handled these matters as well as we have not. Some of you have said that the Government will draw up its legislation, but I have not heard what the Minister has said – that is to say that such a law in relation to silent societies would be changed. The change in the Company Act and the fact that you're working on it, we know that, but not the particular problem that we wanted to raise. One of the colleagues said that silent societies are fine because where things are arranged, things work out. I am pleased that the coalition Members have found that things are not in order and they are assessing that we have a lot of things unsettled. We're still expecting them to do something to make things right. Only the name "quiet ownership" can tell us if so arranged is good and fair, what he said was that purposes are fair, then there is no point in hiding this property or hiding its stake in an enterprise. If someone comes with honest intentions, he'd be more than proud to know that he's so honest and wants to set things straight. I therefore assess that the way or arrangements we have, that there are also silent partners, which do not make much difference in making things transparent, fair and orderly as much as possible. While the government is going to change some things and make arrangements, as I said, sometimes I doubt what it says it will do, and we can't wait to do it after a year or two. I doubt we'll do any good in this area. Finally, the minister said that she felt this was well arranged, so I understood her contribution, and therefore there was no need to change the law in that part that spoke of silent associates. If that's what he's judging, then I doubt we're going to make any difference. It was mentioned that things work elsewhere, but not with us. Then you have to ask yourself again what's so wrong with us that these things can't work. There must be some things that don't happen to epilogues at the right time, and at the right time, no one is really punished if something is wrong, because we already know that everything that happened in the case of Mr Toplek cannot happen. This is already clear that it is a criminal offence or that legislation is supposed to prevent this, since everyone knows that he must not exceed his powers and exceed what he can do, and yet he does. Therefore, it is necessary to sort things out in some way, and we have tried to do so by amending the law. However, it has already been explained why these things have also been in the legislation in all the continuations and any amendments to the Company Act. Above all, I want to make things right as soon as we realize that there is a problem, but not that we have to have ten more cases, so that we can finally say that we are going to end it now. Therefore, I will not support the proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and I think we should discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u65	Thank you. The Minister shall also make a statement. Here you go. Five minutes. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] We usually gave the Minister an opportunity to share the time. The minister signed up with a raise. Please, Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I turned myself in wrong. I just want to make a few things clear, given the debate. Once again, I would like to point out that just deleting a chapter on silent societies will not solve the problems that have led the proposer to amend the law. By losing and removing silent companies that are now at least in some legal way regulating their business, standardising them and sanctioning them, those who have an interest in abuse of this institution will continue to do so. Not in this way, but with any other option, which will not be legally regulated anywhere in the law and will probably have to be prosecuted under criminal law if it is detected. In short, it's too simple and too easy to solve. Believe me, it would be the easiest thing for us to do for quiet societies. However, we are aware that this would open up a number of other problems. That is why we have proposed a solution to try to improve, for perhaps none of us really want to be abused, and we all try to make these abuses as few as possible. For this reason, we have proposed that, by amending the company law, not only this amendment, but also the amendment of the law on integrity and corruption, as well as the tax procedure law, increase control and transparency over these silent companies. I think this is the right direction to solve this problem. And the idea of letting them be suspended until our supervisory councils do this function satisfactorily is totally unacceptable. Yeah, well, when are we gonna train the control councils to perform this function? This should start today and take care of it in parallel with other activities, I agree that our supervisory councils will perform their functions better than they do today. From this point of view, I reiterate that this solution, as we propose, is said to be a change in the company law, the changes are already in the interdepartmental treatment, the text has already been published on the websites, so it is also visible and can also be improved. In short, by means of these amendments, we increase control and thus improve the transparency of the operation of silent companies, which are elsewhere in most countries. That is also what you are proposing, in fact, in the draft law, that this institution is also known by many other countries. In addition, it must be said that there are already several instruments in existing legislation that can be used to prosecute abuses that are not only applicable to silent societies, but also apply to economic activity at all. This position and the opinion of the Government is not only the opinion of officials at the ministries. Today read Legal Practice, Mr. Saša Prelic writes and lists a number of reasons and points us to the proposal to repeal the provisions of the company law and somehow joins the government's direction to try to improve the system, not simply to abolish it. Just for a little while, I won't discuss it again. Otherwise, Mr Friday's Member is not in the Chamber, I hope he listens to me. However, I would like to comment on his statement when he said that we have a relationship with Boxmark and that Boxmark has acquired funds as a result or will be given priority in obtaining funds from the Ministry of Economy. First of all, I would like to say that Boxmark has not submitted any applications for any co-financing at the Ministry of the Economy. Secondly, I would like Mr Petek to provide evidence that I have any relation with anyone in the Boxmark, but if he does not submit this, I request a public apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! So, after all that has been heard to this day, there is no valid reason to reject this proposal, which is in the National Assembly. Even by the vast majority of the coalition Members, it has been heard that this solution is favored by us. I must say that I am personally very surprised by the position of the Government or specifically of the Ministry of Economy in this matter. It is true that this practice of so-called silent societies is known in many European countries and in many legal systems, which has apparently evolved through a longer tradition that we have not already consumed in Slovenia. For this reason, in our system, based on what we know so far and what we have heard so far, both today in this Chamber and on the data available to us, this institution has been used primarily for abuses, for concealing those who should not go, and on the other hand for such or other political disqualifications of political opponents. So what good is the purpose of this arrangement that the Minister wants to defend here? We have not heard one example of good practice in this country, which would justify that these provisions remain in law. It is not true that when they set out to create a dark field. It will not be because we guarantee the public, transparency and nullity of such relations. Thus, if we delete this field from the Company Act, this cannot be regulated on the basis of the bond ratios. It is not possible because such relations under this law are null and void. When might a relationship arise in the sense of a quiet society? Let's say this case, which we've just heard about before, when it's the prime minister of a merchant in Libya again, and where he's obviously somehow extorted some 30 million euros for the Stożice, we've heard about the private company Grep. In such a case, it is likely that this institution could come into force if a partner, in this case a foreign partner, would probably invest in a project of funds and would not want to manage the company. That would be the institute. But look, in our system, especially with our prime minister, far from being effective or even effective. Another case, one specific case, which would be an example of good practice, we have not heard today, not in the past days, not in the past months. It is therefore incomprehensible why the insistence on keeping these provisions in law is even more incomprehensible that what we are hearing is that "we will propose a change, the government will propose a change, is already in inter-departmental coordination, which will focus mainly on strengthening control". Who, though, is preventing this field from being strengthened now? We are all now expecting the control mechanisms to work, and we expect, above all, that transparency will be as much as possible for those concerned by this legislation. At least what we would expect when we asked the Public Finance Supervisory Commission to provide the Government with information on all these possible relations on the basis of a specific case that took place in the Talum, we had a strange response, some denial of this at the first stage. This raises doubts as to the reality of the intention of the Government and the specific ministry to regulate this area. He thinks that there is no fear and no reason for any company, in any relationship, to have harmful consequences if this law was enforced and adopted today. They can't be, you didn't name them yourself. Such relationships, if any, must become public or if they are not public, are null and void. That's all that comes out of this marriage. No harm can be done. From what we have heard today, both by the competent minister and by individual Members, we have not heard one concrete case that the Institute of the so-called silent society could, in individual cases, bring what was likely intended when this institution was established; it is said that some additional capital that someone wants to invest in a particular enterprise where they do not want to manage effectively but only to receive adequate returns or profits. We have not heard or observed such a case in all this debate today, nor in the debate we had at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. However, we have heard cases that speak of secrecy because it is a conflict of interest, which is unacceptable, and on the other hand, we have heard cases that speak of political abuses occurring through this institution. It's both bad. That's why this institute needs to be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u70	Thank you very much again for your word. It is interesting that the Government always comes to our proposals with the same argument, namely that it has a better and more comprehensive solution in its hands. In the relatively short history of our independent Slovenia, however, a number of individuals, whose conduct was obviously legal, were mostly controversial from an ethical or moral point of view. As an example, let me mention the ownership of former social enterprises and various management purchases by those who were in the right place at the right time. Their abilities can now be assessed by a number of unsuccessful management, businesses are economically and financially exhausted and employees are moving to the road. Obviously, however, everything was in accordance with the law, since the court or judicial authorities would also have obtained an epilogue, criminal sanctions for possible illegal action. Now something similar is happening to silent companies, or silent associates, which are dealt with by the Company Act in that third chapter. This is, however, legal, but in practice, as we have already heard today, there is a great risk that there is a conflict of interest among silent partners, especially in the case of a silent partner, a person who is also a management authority or control authority in a state-owned or majority state-owned enterprise. This case has already been mentioned today, Mr Danilo Toplek, Director of Taluma. As many of these cases are not known today, since the substance of the operation of a silent society is not provided for in the contract between the operator of a silent company and the silent shareholders and the company law that the contract establishing a silent society is published in the register of justice and that is why these relations are not known. So, relationships outside. In theory, a silent participant could contribute up to 100 %, meaning that, in addition to controlling the business, a silent participant may also have an influence on its business and the right to take part in the profits, without anyone knowing that it is a silent society or a silent partnership. It is a matter of concealing the identity of this partner, which consequently means that there is a risk of a conflict of interest. In a number of cases, it is a matter of avoiding payment of tax obligations and, last but not least, money laundering or even financing of other illicit activities may be involved in these cases. Once again, it has been repeatedly pointed out by the proposer that the substance of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act is in order to eliminate the possibility of silent societies. As a second option, or as a second amendment, that all contractual relations between the parties, i.e. between the company and the members of the court register and be made available to the public, are null and void. From this point of view, I think there are no problems and we can support the law in the first reading, which can also be upgraded if possible, even in cooperation with the Government and the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The proposal to amend this law is intended to prevent such acts from taking place. But if it were to be discovered — because I believe that these silent societies would still occur — it would be marked as a crime. Well, look at something concrete. Danilo Toplek, President of the Taluma Administration, stated in his statement at the press conference: "All business decisions of the Talum administration are taken in accordance with the company's internal rules, good business practices and Slovenian legislation." Slovenian legislation states the rights of a silent associate. In the silent partnership agreement, however, it is contrary to Slovenian law because it is stated in Article 3 of this Treaty, which you can also look at, from the Ministry, as it is on the Internet: "The silent company carrier is, through Shop, d.o.o., obliged to invite a silent partner to meetings, as would the associate and also to coordinate all possible transactions relating to the availability and management of and the alienation and flag of business shares in the company of the Construction Company Ptuj." Well, and then he says that the conclusions taken in contravention will be null and void, and in Article 9, he says that those who do not do so will be punished with 40,000 euros in fines. Look, Prime Minister Danilo Toplek says he's working under Slovenian law. That's not true! He works in the interests of internal legal acts. It cannot hold a company owned by a majority of the state owned by otherwise written internal legal acts, nor can any private company have it, not by law. That means it's not true again. He says he has the support and consent of the Taluma Supervisory Board. This is true because the Taluma Supervisory Board accepts what they agree on, because supervisors may also own some silent companies, along with the President of the Management Board. But this is not in the interest of the state, and this is not in accordance with the law. Look, there's a specific thing that a man reads to you, you have one. What did you do? Nothing. Let it go. All right! The new Talum control council said everything was okay. Bravo! You're clapping him. And here's the thing. Then he goes on to say that he is convinced that the Governing Council is doing good work and so on. Mr Toplek then said at his press conference that the owners would decide on his work, not representatives of political parties. Members and Members of Parliament are elected here. In accordance with Article 74 of the Constitution, we are first called to work in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution. Article 74 of the Constitution states: "Economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit." After: "The acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict competition are prohibited." That, as president of the board, he signed a contract with the company for a certain work, for a certain job, where he was a silent associate of a silent associate – but that is not contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution, Minister? Isn't that the opposite? Is this not an obstacle to unfair competition? Of course it's blocked! It is an obstacle to unfair competition; and this is contrary to Article 74. More! Before signing this contract, it was necessary, under the silent partnership agreement, to harmonise or harmonise those who acted with this company outside, because all decisions under this contract would have been breached and would not have been realized. Even more, after Article 9, we'd pay the penalty. Then Danilo Toplek goes on to say that he once a year deposits his work with supervisors. That's right. But did he tell the supervisor that he owned a silent company with which he signed the contract? Did he say it? He didn't say! Minister, it's urgent, at least do it and accept it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u74	Your Honor! To the Lord you have so many times mentioned and spoken of, the Auditor and the Supervisory Board have not proved any irregularities. However, to be among the silent partners, it is necessary to say, as I have just heard, that the silent society in the European Union has a great tradition, i.e. 150 years of tradition. Especially in times of crisis, as we are today, so in times of crisis and financial distress, quiet society is still highly recommended, necessary and normal. Economists and entrepreneurs at such times want and need silent partners from different perspectives. The first is the lack of financial resources; secondly, payments are irregular at the moment; thirdly, financial resources are at the expense of some of them, because they have made use of what they can, as far as the funds obtained from banks are concerned. For example, one of the entrepreneurs who can no longer obtain funds from banks — how quiet society can be! There is something else to say, even in Slovenia, it is probably so far away that some people have financial resources and I see no reason not to put them into the economy. What's wrong with putting them in the economy and wanting to have their profits, their profits, and so on? That is why I think it is a silent society, that is, one that is also looking for promising, innovative and export-oriented companies. Why not, why not in Slovenia, if not elsewhere? But it's true, and I agree with you that we need to have control. One more thing. Because some silent associates are not able to manage companies or participate in teams that manage companies, but they want to be with their financial resources. These things are relatively simple. I don't see why looking at some would be extremely negative. Previously, it was said that the gentleman you were referring to had no evidence of any irregular act or other form of action. I don’t know why, after one case, where nothing is proved, we could change — or on this basis — legislation. What makes you think they're changing the law at the expense of that?Oh, my God! There's something else I found out today. As insulting and rude a attitude towards the Minister as it has proven a long time ago that she must not take the floor, what is in this House is abnormal to my understanding. It was also clearly explained by the Minister that the ventilation of the ZGD would be necessary and is in some way already being prepared, in particular a chapter on silent partners: whether there is something to be done here, or whether we do have such bad legislation that we cannot prevent them if there are any deviations. I don't see any reason to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'll be record short. I will not support the bill because this bill reminds us, for example, of where someone would eat honey and that is why we would now propose the abolition of beekeeping in Slovenia in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Visjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The objectives of the proposed law are clear. We would like to eliminate the deviant phenomenon which, in the innovation and ingenuity of managers, in particular state-owned enterprises, is large, small. We have witnessed these deviant phenomena every day, we are falling from affair to affair, and we have not yet experienced a first-degree judgment in any affair, let alone a judicial epilogue. This is a major problem; a problem that directly encourages and pressures economic crime. We believe that the measure to prevent the existence of a public hidden society is a measure that would contain certain manoeuvres for those who want to hide in companies to hide their profits from these companies. What is their contribution to these companies is most often everything but money. In Slovenia, I don't know the case of someone investing in society, being a silent partner, and promising only what he's doing, that's dividends. However, I know the case when a silent shareholder did not invest anything in the company, but he wanted to have 50% of the purchase if the company was sold. This case was made public by the Slovenian media, it was published, it was attended by a prominent member of the Social Democrats, Mr Danilo Toplek – by the way, the candidate of this party in the local elections and probably elsewhere in the national elections. Sir, who is also the financier of this political option. So, politics is also shot down by these deviant phenomena and does not want to face them. The government does not want any data from heads of state-owned companies, data on whether they are also silent shareholders. It's the least we can do to get the government that information. At least. The government refers to the law, to the OECD corporate principles and I do not know what else it should not interfere with and should not dictate to economic operators of that, that, third. At the same time, we have and are faced with a letter from the Director of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which reveals to the Minister the involvement in the work of the Agency, the exclusion of the work of the Agency, the involvement in specific solutions here and there and, in fact, with some demeaning attitude of the Ministry of Economy towards the Agency, which should be the key manager of capital investments. The minister spoke of the need for good practices and guidance in this country at last, while at the same time violating them in the second step. If we trust anyone, in this case we can trust the Director of the Agency for Capital Investment Management, which is not the last, I think the Prime Minister has also called on him to announce all the deviations or all the pressures he will face by various ministers and ministers. So when we talk about this practice, we can find that we are still far from some developed market economy, that we are shot with various transition attempts, especially by managers, who hit with "foreign... under the nets", that is, with managers of state-owned companies. We do not want to speed this up and build it up, but we want to prevent it. It is not true, as the Minister says, that this bill is simply a deletion of silent societies. That's not true! This law has a very important upgrade, as it has merely provided for the deletion of this chapter, namely that all legal relations between the parties, either between society and the parties, or between anyone and society, must be introduced in the register of justice. This is also Article 6 of this Law – I hope you have read it at all. If we are to stop at least one part of this predatory policy, it is a place to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u79	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda and 2nd and now 3. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION AND DISABILITATION LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Ivan Svetlik, who is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u80	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today you will discuss and vote on a substantially supplemented proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. We believe that the parent committee has made an important substantive complement to a number of legal solutions. This makes marriage more pleasant to people, in many ways. It reduces the period for the calculation of the pension base to 27 years, 30 minus 3 of the worst years, thus reducing the pension base for men to 34 years, and also, of course, for women by 4.3 and 3.9 percentage points. The transition to 41 and 43 years of retirement for those who have started working early will be slowed down instead of a 6-month 4-month annual step. Hospital leave, parental care and professional rehabilitation shall be taken into account in the calculation of the pension base as if the individual would be receiving full pay at that time. In addition, the age limit for obtaining a retirement pension due to parenthood is reduced to no more than 63 years for men and 61 years for women. Compulsory service of military service shall also be deducted from the full retirement age, which may be redeemed as a retirement period under more favourable conditions. It is strengthened to inform the insurers of the contributions paid and their rights, and arrangements are laid down for insurers of existing compulsory occupational insurance. The second pillar, several pension plans, the entry of management companies, lower management fees and similar solutions are complemented. This has also brought us closer to the demands of trade unions, since few individuals will have to work until the age of 65 to obtain a retirement pension. These solutions will increase old men's pensions from 10.6% to 19% and women from 9% to 19%. This is shown by the latest calculations made at the Economic Institute on the basis of new value parameters. We have also further coordinated with the economy and therefore further propose to postpone the phasing out of the minimum pension contributions to 60% of the average wage for employees, from 2016 to 2020. Let me also mention that, in addition to reducing contributions to the elderly, it is also agreed that contributions will also be reduced for young people who will be employed for the first time for an indefinite period of time. All these calculations, on the other hand, show that all these new solutions will require an additional half percent of the gross social product in 2021 and almost 1% of the additional social product in 2030. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask that you today, when deciding on the amendments, take up solutions that will not further weaken the pension allowance. This will allow you to continue to achieve both fundamental objectives; this is the strength of the pension fund for the next 10 to 15 years and the halting of the fall in pensions. Finally, I would like to thank all, especially Members, and other participants in the debate on the Committee, who have been actively and constructively involved in drafting the text of the law, and, of course, I would like to see today's debate and decision-making on the law in such a constructive spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law has been examined by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and I give the floor to the president of the Committee of Dr Andrei Črnak Meglic for his presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u82	Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues, colleagues, welcome! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 25th session. 11. 2010 and at the first resumed meeting 3. 11. 2010, in the second subparagraph of Article 9(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 11. 2010; thirdly, 11 below. 11. 2010, 4th and 5th to continue on 5. 11. 2010 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. On the basis of the Committee's decision, two public presentations were carried out and the National Assembly also held a general debate on the proposal for a law. Members and members of the Committee have also received comments, opinions, impact assessments, impact assessments, legislative proposals and amendments submitted to the public concerned, amendments from SLS, SDS, SNS, amendments from the coalition's members and amendments. Julian Bizjak Mlakar, Andrei Magajne and Mag. Franca Žnidaršič, Villa Rezman, Tadej Slapnik, Breda Pecan and Villa Trofenika. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the proposer with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and a representative of the State Council, as well as a number of representatives of interested organisations and associations. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council and the comments and suggestions of the interested public. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik briefly presented the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the law, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups took greater account of the comments made by their services. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members of the Committee and the most requested discussions focused primarily on the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to basic principles and the extent of insurance, compulsory added pension insurance, recognition of the military period during the retirement period, conditions for obtaining the right to an old-age pension, reduction of the old-age pension due to children, consideration of compensation, state, widow and family pension, injury at work, compensation for the period of professional rehabilitation, annual allowance and allowance for assistance and service, coordination of pensions, home records, enforcement of insurance rights, pension fund, pension fund and transitional provisions. Many amendments to the Committee were also adopted in the long and reasoned debate. In the context of the debate on Articles 16, 27, 30, 37, 136, 156, 156 and 390, it was stressed that the provisions should be reviewed and improved until the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly. The Committee adopted amendments to the Coalition's parliamentary groups of 7, 27, 28, 33, 40, 46, 58, 60, 72, 73, 102, 106, 108, 113, 140, 141, 143, 145, 146, 147, 147, 148, 152, 153, 155, 158, 180, 185, 201, 203, 205, 209, 230, 232, 256, 267, 277, 284, 288, 289, 299, 296, 300, 311, 311, 313, 311, 314, 335, 358, 360, 361, 362, 371, 371, 375, 376, 377, 380, 394, 411, 414, 416, 421, 367, 371, 376, 377, 377, 390 and 390, 394, 394, 411, 411, 414, 416, 421 and 427, 424 and 425 respectively. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles and adopted the draft law together with the additions. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is prepared for the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, and the amended proposal is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Since the 21st meeting held the first reading of the bill, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 1 December this year. We are therefore moving on to a debate on amendments. First, I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment tabled by the SD, Reallys and LDS Group on this Article. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. As already stated in the explanatory memorandum, this amendment is a consequence of the amendment adopted by colleague Slapnik on the Committee. However, it is correcting some things that have not been properly regulated in the current pension legislation, which is currently in force, in my firm opinion. In some ways, it is a misunderstanding of social entrepreneurship, an organisational form of the institution, which is different from companies. The purpose of the institutions is not to create profits and also the judgment of the European Court of Justice shows us that there is a need for separation in similar activities of these legal entities in view of the purpose of establishing them. Especially since we have a whole bunch of societies, including institutions whose business is minimal, in fact, their operation is largely voluntary. Their private founders, who were at the same time directors and for the most part engaged in this work because of a vision, for example, socially beneficial, ecological, social, social or otherwise, did not in fact obtain from these institutions any funds, especially those which, according to the original proposal of this law and under the existing law, would have paid for the pension fund. I am glad that we have come up with such a solution that this burden, as far as institutions are concerned, will be divided fairly or to a far lesser extent than it has been before. The same applies to cooperatives which are similar to institutions under the organisational structure, since it is essential that both forms be subject to a restriction that this Article may only be applied and only to those which, by their internal acts, do not have the possibility of dividing profits because this is the case. If there's nothing, the state can't take it. In this case, I am very pleased with this solution. The non-governmental sector will welcome it, and I hope that this will make it work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u85	Mr Branko Grimes has the floor. Ms. Andreja Črnak Meglič should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I will not personally support this amendment for the same reason that I will not support the entire law. Indeed, there is now an attempt to correct what is objectively impossible to fix here in Parliament. In fact, old wisdom teaches that no one and nothing is perfect, but in this law, from a developmental national economic point of view, the government managed to bring about almost a complete breakdown. Why? Everything we are discussing here today and what has previously been discussed on the committees should be resolved by the Government in the social and intergenerational dialogue before any draft law has even begun to circulate. Then, in fact, the government worked in a cyclical way to revive the debate on this law every few months. And what was the result? All those who had any opportunity to retire as soon as possible under the old law fled to their retirement. We have received thousands, tens of thousands of new early retirees, which will drastically, catastrophically additionally burden the cash flow and burden all that economy, in particular small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which should represent the engine, due to the mismanagement of the government, which represents the surface of everything as some kind of development measure. In fact, this is just something that has long-term and short-term effects, and the medium-term changes that are necessary for the recovery of the Slovenian economy have nothing to do with them. But the effect, as we say, is the opposite! By withdrawing people when you convinced them that they had gone into early retirement, you reduced the number of contributors. The only effect – yesterday someone on the round table we were on said that do not always attribute to the evil purpose of what can be explained by simple human stupidity. This is a very historic river that describes beautifully the work of the current government and coalition. But personally, I don't think this was just nonsense. Personally, I think that this has been so cyclical, each so strongly revived and thrown back into the political arena that when people were directed to retire, it allowed businesses not to forgive so many people because it was in some way a natural outflow to them from an entrepreneurial point of view as they would otherwise have. So it was artificially shown that there were not as many unemployed as there were otherwise. In fact, the number of unemployed has risen over 100,000, strong over 100,000, ladies and gentlemen, and this has been hidden in local elections – it is clear to everyone why. Now we are in a position to have a coalition in which one of the parties is for the top of everything as a amphibian, allowing it by its insistence in the coalition that this government takes such decisions to drive such a policy and then opposes it and raises its political points. This is interesting and is obviously worth it under the conditions of Slovenian political culture. But in fact, there is only one fundamental message to be said in this law: ladies and gentlemen of the government and the coalition, that is not how it is done and should not be done. By the way you have pursued this reform, which is not really reform, you have actually done irreparable development damage to the whole of Slovenia. In addition, you overburdened the already loaded pension box, further reducing the tide, as people, where they had the opportunity, went to early retirement. It is interesting – which confirms my previous thesis – that I have solid information, I can bring witnesses, if you want people to go to the institution, they have been advised there how to play the existing rules so that they can retire as soon as possible under the old legislation. This is very interesting if this is what the public services are doing in this context, which we are deciding here today. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, because the government has succeeded in almost a perfect failure – if it is complete to the end, then either way, what you may vote today will erupt, if not sooner, at the referendum, and then it will indeed be perfect – the fact that something that is poorly prepared cannot be substantially corrected here today. If the matter is fundamentally wrong, if the foundations are bad, you can build such a beautiful house, and the ornamented house is disturbed, but the matter will collapse and it will collapse itself. Unfortunately, it is not only this "reform", which is imprecise, which does not introduce personal accounts, which was a fundamental requirement of the SDS, that everyone should know at any moment how much he owes him, how much he has paid, and how much he will get to be clean accounts – as you know, clean accounts, good friends – but because of this your work itself will collapse the entire structure of the pension register. There will be more problems, and unfortunately it will break further, even more so, thanks to you ladies and gentlemen, the entire Slovenian development. I will be happy to vote against that. Believe it!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Unlike my esteemed colleague, who has spoken nothing of Article 16, but has once again embarked on a "crowding" and painting a black picture of our future, I would like to talk about Article 16 and thank, just as Mr Minister, all Members and Members who have been very constructively involved in the debate of the home committee. That is why we have also determined in Article 16 that we will find a solution that will also benefit non-profit institutions. Based on an analysis of the operations of the establishments I carried out, it showed that 53% of private institutions operate without profit. The institutions have the possibility by law to decide whether they are profitable or unprofitable. The solution that we have involved in Article 16 of the Act is that institutions which are non-profitable and have this defined in the Statute are exempt from compulsory insurance under this Article, while employees must be protected on the basis of the remaining articles as persons in a working relationship, whether self-employed or using any other contractual work under those articles which regulate it. This is a solution that has also fully listened to the demands of NGOs, who are constantly fighting for their space in the Slovenian space and, of course, to properly address their contribution. I therefore consider this article to be a major step forward in terms of taking into account the views of civil society and seeking appropriate solutions. That's why I'm going to support this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 16? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on Article 16. We are moving on to Article 27 and the two amendments to this Article. The first was tabled by SD, Reale and LDS, and the second by the SDS. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Andreja Black Neglec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u90	Thank you very much. As has already been said, the law on disability and pension insurance was based on two basic objectives: to maintain the value of pensions and to stop their real reduction and to maintain the sustainability of the pension allowance. As measures to achieve these two objectives, he relied on three basic measures, namely a gradual extension of the period for obtaining the right to an old age pension, an increase in the number of years to calculate the pension base and a change in the way pensions are valorised. Article 27 of this Act refers to the first condition, namely the first leg of the tripod and represents one of the key members of this pension reform. With the amendment we have adopted to the second paragraph of Article 27, we have adopted a solution which for the first time means that women under 20 years of age would be raised to 65 years of age at the present 63. This is worse than the current law. The proposal by the coalition amendment that we have on the bench, and I will of course support it, removes this anomaly and defines a four-year transitional period for this population of women. The second part of this amendment speaks of double conditions for obtaining an old pension. The first condition is the minimum age of 60 years and the second condition of working time for men 40, for women 38 years. First of all, I would like to say that this has been determined in full conflict with all five paragraphs of this Article and, secondly, it is a substantive failure of the first of the basic measures for the implementation of the existing pension reform. Therefore, such a solution cannot be accepted and is essentially deleted in the amendment. As a basis for the preparation of the pension reform that we have before us, an integrated expert analysis of the effects of the proposed pension legislation prepared by experts at the Institute of Economic Research at the Faculty of Economics was developed. So we come from solid facts and this, in my opinion, guarantees legitimacy to the proposed solutions that we have before us. On the other hand, there is a group that claims that the power to adopt measures is significantly milder and that, above all, this first measure does not necessarily need to be supported. If I follow these measures, I must say that I agree with most of these measures. Improve financial discipline in the payment of contributions. As you know, this law completely eliminates the possibility of non-payment of contributions to disability insurance. Restricted work to black. The law on black work has been prepared, it has been approved by the Economic and Social Council and will soon be dealt with in the National Assembly. What is more uncertain is when the real effects of this law will be known and what they will be. Measures for new employment. Sure. The decline in the economic crisis will also increase the number of jobs and reduce the number of unemployed. With active economic policy, we will also be able to ensure the opening of new jobs, and I hope that there will also be better jobs, with a higher share of added value than the jobs we have today. But this is also a process that will produce long-term results. I also agree with the proposals that talk about equalising contributions to employers and employees and introducing a financial transaction tax. However, when I talk about these two measures, we must be aware that they are not only positive, but also have negative effects, if I say so,; they affect the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Therefore, when considering when and how to introduce them, it is necessary to take into account the integrated conditions in order to achieve the best result. All these measures are not financially evaluated. So on the one hand, we have gross calculations that show us what we have to do to prevent the fall in pensions, which, by the way, if the current law persists from 2009 to 2020, will decrease by about 4%, by 2025, the replacement ratio and the average salary, and for another two percent, then we have to take measures and pension reform. We must also accept it in order to provide some similar conditions for those populations who will retire later. Look, I'm not very happy myself that I'm going to have to work three years longer to get a pension that will provide me with about as much social security as the pensioners have today. However, conscious of the consequences for all generations that we are entering, aware of the responsibilities entrusted to us by voters, I cannot agree that when I have solid facts and calculations on my side, on the other hand, some loose assumptions that I simply agree to the latter. I cannot and must not, because the responsibility is too great, it is our responsibility not to accept tomorrow's reform, which will be significantly more acute than it is now, and it is not yet necessary to ensure the achievement of the objectives that we are setting today. Simply, Slovenia is a country with extremely low fertility. The ratio between workers and pensioners is 1:1.7, which is one of the lowest ratios in Europe. See, even in Europe, when countries choose strategies to ensure secure pensions and the sustainability of pension funds, they are mainly deciding on this strategy that we have decided on. This is a gradual extension of the conditions for obtaining a retirement pension. These conditions aren't going to happen overnight! They will be extended after six months a year and will expire for men at 2020 and for women at 2026. Experts also tell us, think about it and be aware of the responsibility you have when accepting the current pension reform. I know this isn't gonna get me political points and gloria in front of the media. But I am aware that I am responsible and accept this responsibility with full measure: so that the pensioners and our future families will have a safe old age! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. The current proposal for an amended law is significantly improved in view of the original one, and I hope that it will remain that way. However, the first amendment to Article 27 will be supported when it is not proposed as an amendment to Article 27(2), because otherwise the current important substance of Article 27, paragraph 2, of the amended law would be deleted. The content relevant to employment and the social situation of future pensioners would be deleted. The content of the present second paragraph of Article 27 was proposed by four Members at the proposal of the unions. The content to be deleted by the proposed amendment allows for 40 years of retirement for men or 38 years for women, a 60-year-old non-retirement pension. Although this condition is already difficult to achieve, the Government requires three more years, 43 years for men and 41 years for women, which is unattainable for many. With the current content of the second paragraph of Article 27 of the Law, it would be possible to increase the actual retirement age for men from the current 58 years to 60 years and for women from the present 56 and a half years on average to 60 years. Let us not forget that in fact the retirement age in the countries of the European Union is already comparable to that of Slovenia. By maintaining the current content of the second paragraph of Article 27 of the amended proposal, the pension reform would achieve several objectives. Firstly, the extension of the actual retirement age to 60 years at 40 and 38 years of age is necessary, since an intermediate step to 41 and 43 years of retirement is required. Secondly, reform would become more acceptable to the majority of the population and the union and socially more equitable, as it would not further harm the most vulnerable. Thirdly, it would be possible to revive social dialogue. Fourthly, it would prevent the eligibility of the referendum currently announced by the trade unions. The Malus system proposed by the Government is not suitable for the Slovenian situation because it would have a major impact on the amount of future pensions due to already low pensions. Therefore, the union proposal set out in the second paragraph of Article 27 of the amended bill is a good solution, which should not be deleted by the proposed amendment. Most people know that we will have to work longer in the future. This can also be achieved in a more just way. By deleting the content of the second paragraph of Article 27 of the amended law, which requires further harmonisation amendments, to which we have also warned the amendment's investors when it is tabled, the conditions for retirement, which are available to many, would apply. The Government’s lack of pension conditions leads to early retirement with young people and, consequently, to low future pensions, which many would not have enough to survive. Thus, for example, 43 years of work and 41 years of work for women as a condition for a non-malus pension are unattainable conditions for most industrial workers. Educated young people who are employed around the age of 28 can hardly reach the age of 41 or 43 years of non-minor retirement, since they would be able to achieve a non-minor pension only if their health and employment opportunities were allowed to work up to the age of 70 or beyond. Otherwise, pensions will be low due to early retirements, due to high-ups. This directs people to private pensions, which, given the low incomes of a large number of people, many cannot afford amounts to compensate for the low pension. Let me also mention the multitude of older people who have been unemployed for a year or two, who, although in the current law, could retire in a year, two or three, who are almost unable to obtain a job in the future, the current proposal of the amended law, is Article 393 and prolongs the agony of likely unemployment for a further 7 years or more. For a large part of the population, the real unachievable conditions for retirement constitute a significant reduction in pensions under the proposed Malus system. The average pension is already below the poverty line. Slovenia would continue to move away from the OECD recommendation, after which the ratio between the average pension and the average wage would be 70%. This ratio was only 61.3% in 2009. The ratio between the average full pension and the average wage was only 66.6% the same year. At the same time, poverty risk increased by 2 percentage points for over 65 years from 2002 to 2008, to 21.3%. Low pensions lead to increased need for a protective allowance. The protection allowance, however, is transformed into social assistance, as proposed by the law, leading to the possibility of the pension of retired workers and women receiving social assistance due to their underprivileged pensions. The confiscation of property, however, does not only take into account property that is not essential for living, but also the apartments and houses where the relatives of the deceased pensioners who were recipients of social assistance live. The analysis of three economists on the effects of pension reform shows that the aim of this pension reform over the next 11 years is to reduce the current expenditure on pensions from 11.2 % of GDP in 2009 to 10.1% of GDP, by 1.1 % of GDP. We must therefore ask ourselves whether such a rigorous commitment to the pensioner belt is indeed necessary, just and just. I don't think so. In fact, as long as there is unpunished or even legalised non-payment of contributions, as long as it is possible not to pay contributions due to black work, which is estimated to cover as much as 17% to 25% of GDP, as long as we have unfair taxation of the most wealthy and development minister Gaspari is even seeking to introduce a social cap that would relieve the most tangible contributions, while employers in Slovenia pay almost half less for social contributions than employees, which is a unique one in the European Union, and as long as it is not properly provided for a healthy natural and working environment, it is not justified to impose a rigorous burden on the pensioner's belt. I therefore hope that the amendment tabled in paragraph 2 of Article 27 will not be adopted. However, if the applicant submits it next time without deleting the current substance of the second paragraph of Article 27 of the amended law, then I will also support the amendment on my own and in this case also support the whole law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I will only talk about the amendment under the number one SD, Really and LDS. In fact, I remember the meeting of my mother's working body when I was handing over my chair to my colleague Majhenič, and I felt the joy that came when Article 27 was amended, thus being amended in the same content as it was written in the amended bill. Well, the real story is that at that time there were not enough coalition members at the meeting of the home committee and the opposition MPs prevailed and voted a good amendment. At that time, the joy was felt, and then the marriage was slightly more joyful. That's when I said not to be happy, boys and girls, that it was a mistake and they'd want to fix it with an amendment, specifically in today's session. That's the way it works – at least it's not fair. Therefore, even if this amendment were not good, but not good, it is worse than the proposed amendment that is written down. I will absolutely, and also my colleagues, oppose such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. This article is certainly one of the most important, and this article is likely to be discussed. I must say, there are two amendments to this article. For the article refers to the conditions for retirement and defines, both in principle, 65 years of age, of course after a certain transitional period, 65 years for both men and women. The Committee has adopted an amendment or amended second paragraph, which we are pleased to support, because it represents a more human approach to all those who are under the weight of the provisions of the new law. However, I would like to draw particular attention to our amendment to this new text. Indeed, this article says that, while 65 years of age are required for retirement, which is a very problematic requirement for us and certainly not a requirement, this has been corrected by the committee, and now we are the fifth and sixth paragraphs. Indeed, these paragraphs state that it is not necessary to retire at 65 years of age, but a man may retire at 60 years of age if he is 43 years old and a woman at 58 years of age when she is 41 years old. I wonder when in men, who of men at 60 years of age is 43 years of age working age? Maybe only if he went to work when he was 17, he wasn't unemployed for a year and didn't go into the army. And of course he didn't study. What if he's been studying for, like, four years? At best, he was 22, 23 years old. At best! And then he served as an army. 24, 25 years old when he went to work and worked hard every day, he worked hard every working day until he was 65 years old and reached 40 years of age. This requires 43 years of working time. That the problem is even more interesting, because what I'm trying to say is that the devil is in detail. And there are so many details in this law that the devil is with the whole law. These people who studied, with a high education, had the opportunity 10 years ago to get a full-time job during their studies, and they bought four years later, paid quite a nice sum. For at that time it was part of the working time, and they were counting on to retire four years earlier. Now it says here in these paragraphs, I will read: "The right to an old-age pension is also obtained by an insured person who has completed 60 years of age and 43 years of retirement without the age to come..." and so on. No time-consumed. This one doesn't count, it's deleted! Those who are expected to meet the conditions of the following year, when this law is already in force, will not be able to count the amount of time they have accumulated. They bought it, they paid in good faith that Slovenia is a state of law. In good faith, they'll be able to retire so many years early. Gentlemen, that won't happen. We have already proposed on the Committee that this clause be deleted for the period it has accumulated, and it is taken into account if it has already been 43 years of working time, but with the time it has accumulated. For if this is not so, then next year all those who reckoned that they might go to peace by January will not be able to go, and will have to work four years longer because of their disrespect, their disregard for the time they have accumulated. However, since the age limit will move for another six months a year in four years, for a further two years, they will work hard. Four to six years after this law. That generation that would retire next year, next year, six years, no one would go, no one would retire, what that means for young graduates, to occupy these jobs for six years, a final session. What does that mean? I don't know. I'd like the Minister to answer that. The Minister is also responsible for the work, not just for the pensioners. We reiterate that we will once again propose that the sum must be taken into account, otherwise the sum is pointless. Why were people buying up those years? This is also about the protection of expected rights, because they did it in good faith at the time, and I think it's one of those black dots in this law If the amendment is not adopted, we know where we are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Svetlik asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I think that in this debate a few things need to be clarified and sent to a more precise reading of the provisions of this law. First of all: everything anyone has bought remains. Anyway. Another time. When it comes to question 43 and 41 years of age. This is a provision that has been introduced on the basis of long and difficult discussions with social partners, including unions, for those who have started working early and who would be able to insist on working at 65 years of age in a position where their working hours and retirement periods would indeed increase beyond reasonable limits. Because someone who started working with 15 years of age if he worked uninterruptedly until the age of 65 would have worked for 50 years. And that's too much. That is why we have agreed to introduce a special exception to this article, which allows those who have started working early to move faster — regardless of their 65 years of age. However, they must be at least 60 years old. Who now benefit from this article? All men who started working before the age of 22 do not have to work until the age of 65 because of this article, and all women who started working before the age of 24, unless of course they interrupted their careers. All of these will benefit from such a regulation. Why do we propose not to count the amount of time? Because the time spent in this case is primarily for those who did not pay or, if they did, those who did not start early could benefit in the first place. For example, as you argued — those who studied. Then, theoretically, they could benefit from this benefit by five years of work completed and retired quite early. That wasn't the point. The aim was to ensure an early stop, a shorter workload throughout the work career for those who started working early and tend to work harder on difficult conditions. However, it is not to ensure the same benefit for those who, as you say, studied and then entered work activities at 25 years of age or later. They already have this benefit so that, for example, between the ages of 25 and 65, they can retire at the age of 65 at the age of 40. There is no need for them to be given additional benefits in order to be able to get out of this account first. In this sense, I think the solution is perfectly appropriate. With regard to Article 27 itself and the existing amendment proposed by the coalition, it must be said that we want to remove this possibility in order to set the age limit for retirement without maluses there, lower so to speak, as is the case with most of those who are retiring today. Today, men retire at about 60 years of age. If we systematically put 60 years of age at which someone can retire, it is said that we are doing anti-reform to go in the opposite direction. The main instrument, the main means of making the pension money stronger, is that we will extend the work activity, that people will remain active for a long time, that they will pay their contributions and that they will later start using the pension funds. It would be completely unreasonable to set such a limit. Not to repeat what the standards are, in fact, as regards the retirement age in our neighbourhood, throughout Europe, everywhere where pension systems are changing today. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to comment back when it was said how many people have decided to retire at the expense of preparing for changes in the pension system. By the end of the third quarter of this year, a thousand fifty more than in the previous year in the same period or 6,8 % more. So talking about triggering a greater number of pensioners is without an empirical basis. The data doesn't confirm it, though, maybe someone would want it. That's it. We have repeatedly explained why the NDC or the system of apparent pension accounts in this proposal is not covered. Because this is a longer-term period that is necessary for us to be able to come into force of such a system at all. However, we can begin to prepare it after we resolve the short-term, medium-term issue of the strength of the pension fund, which is very shaky at this point and needs to be changed so that we can pay our pensions normally in the future. However, I must say that in the light of the constructive debates on this bill on the Committee, there were just a number of debates that went towards those elements of this proposal for a pension law which introduce the principle of imaginary accounts – such as compulsory occupational insurance. There we suddenly found that this is not the right solution, but it is very limited, marginal, but you have voted many or argued against such solutions. That is how it is now necessary to resolve this dilemma, whether we want or do not want this approach. According to our proposal, it is premature to resolve medium-term problems in such a way that it takes longer to move into a completely different system. That is why, of course, this element is not in the current bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Marian Pojbich. A replica? Replica, Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u100	I thank the Minister for explaining his position, which is very significant. Indeed, Mr Minister said very clearly that it is necessary to understand, somehow, to demand, to force them to work until the age of 65. They have to work until they're 65. But Mr. Minister, these people bought up time to get into retirement early, and they believed in the rule of law, and then it was so explained to them. At that time, they did so in good faith that the rule of law would respect it. Now you can want everyone to work until you're 65. Give them the stimuli, but these rights that they bought back then, they're not just given with their left hand, and that's how it happens through the whole marriage! [[...]] We understand your intention to extend your working time as soon as possible to retire in order to shorten the period of payment of pensions, the best thing would be just one year before death, but what was bought on the basis of clear legal provisions is, in my opinion, to take away the right. Of course, you have not convinced us that this is the right way to approach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u102	Dear Mr. Vice President! In opening, I would like to say that, like me, no member of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors will be supported by Article 27, which amends paragraph 2 of this Article. I can also say very clearly in front of the entire Slovenian public that the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this law. She won't support him for more reasons. One is this present and this amendment to Article 27. When the discussion took place on the Labour Committee, the family, we accepted the amendment, the second paragraph of which reads as follows: the insured person gains the right to an old pension at the age of 60 if he has reached the age of 40 years of retirement – male or 38 years of retirement – female. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such an amendment is justified and is in line with the current situation in our country. It is much more human, much more written on the skin of those concerned by this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided that such a law, which is by no means assessed as a reform law, does not need such reform in this situation, because in fact this law is not a law, it is not a reform. Here, a substantial number of important things should be introduced if we can say that this is a reform law. But we do not need such legislation in this given situation. Do you know what we need now in this situation, which is crucial for the future of this country? We need appropriate solutions in the area of the economic, social and financial crisis. We need measures to solve this problem now and at the moment. We're going to need this legislation, but it's long-term. At this point in time, if we want to provide 120 000 unemployed people and all those who are still employed to have adequate salaries, the corresponding salaries, from which they will be able to live, so that they will not wait six months to pay or never receive them at all. This should be the key intention of the National Assembly and the Government, but not to try to blur the Slovenian media space with such legislation, to cloud the Slovenian people's focus on how certain individual small things will change in this law, which are certainly not the most important or at least crucial to the future of the Republic of Slovenia and our citizens – not pensioners, not those young and not those in the middle. But we are sure, and I say this again, please, this government, this coalition, let's start thinking about the anti-crisis measures so that you can see 6, 7,000 companies are now in crisis! [[...]] The credit crunch didn't go down! Look at the problems we have with the Ljubljana Bank!. Let's deal with these problems! This pension legislation, as it is prepared, is certainly not one that could be classified as reform legislation. Why is there no personal pension account in this legislation? Why is he not included in this pension law? This one's for me, and I'm sure most of those who enter a retirement pension are still very important. On the basis of this personal pension account, any pensioner at any time could see how much money was in his account, how much was paid to his account, and at that point he would have calculated what kind of pension he would have had if he had gone to retirement. But this pension reform of such important things simply does not take into account. We are saying that we have some legislation, that is, some law, which is part of these anti-crisis measures. But this law cannot be part of the anticrisis measures if we have 120 thousand unemployed on the other side! Let us ensure that these people have jobs so that these people can work so that they can create to fill their pension allowance, medical bills and state budget! We don't need reforms like this! We don't need to, I'm sure of that, and otherwise I can't be convinced. Believe me, most of the Slovenian public will not be convinced that this is absolutely necessary at the moment. You won't believe it! How can you laugh, Mrs. Potter?Oh, my God! You can laugh without any problem, because probably people see your expressions and so on. But I don't want to argue with individual Members, because this is beneath my level. And you laugh so nicely at this account when we adopt such harmful legislation for those who will retire and those who are waiting outside the door who want to enter an active room, we see what all of this actually means to you. It is important that something is said to talk about the adoption of reforms, to put out on one side of Mr Pahor's red light, and on the other hand two new red light lights are lit because of this extinguished red light. But these two red traffic lights bring two red lights to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! This coalition and this government should have imagined over it! If this government and this coalition were to think that way, now they wouldn't have 120 thousand unemployed, they wouldn't have 7 to 8 thousand companies on the verge of survival. We wouldn't have this credit crunch and all these problems that are happening and a whole bunch of other shit that we see in the background. We're talking on average, this government is talking about trying to cut costs in public administration. I was just listening yesterday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u103	Mr. Pojibich, I am firmly convinced that your client will also be running out of time. Please, talk about the amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u104	Mr Vice President, I agree. I think I have spent quite some time, but I think it is good to say what I have to say and what I hope to say, all Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party think. We will not support this amendment, nor will we support the law as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! It is certainly not possible to extend the retirement age and increase the effective working time for young people who are already unemployed. It only works for those who are looking for work after 30 years of age. And why then: because the system forced them to complete their study while waiting for work. Such ones will certainly never work 40 years or more as envisaged in the reform, but will only retire old age. We are already finding that people on average retire at 33 years of effective working age and that their working hours are increased by 10 years by a clearer law. What do you need that for? Is it just because of the smallpox that the country is going to profit, or do they think we're going to live a whole new life for 100 years? The proposal explains that it will also be possible to retire in the future at 60 years of age and 40 years of retirement, but with young people. This applies to those who start working at 20 and those who start working at 17 will retire at 43 years of age and at 60 years of age, so the latter will be punished in some way because they will start working early. Of course, there should also be a separation between retirement and an effective working age, since it was only when you worked and paid contributions for 40 years or a few years that your study was recognized during retirement, even though you received a higher salary at the time of your service as an educated person and were able to do so in an appropriate way. In any event, the starting point for retirement should be 40 years of effective working time, except for those with a favourable working life. Otherwise, age is no longer important, for most will retire at age 65 and over. However, it must certainly be a limited age for those who will never see the working age prescribed. It is certainly not the workers who are responsible for the poverty of the pension register, but the system that allowed it to be paid in cash in the last 15 years, which is six billion less. In 1996, the Government agreed to reduce the employer's contributions from 15.5% to 8.85%, and there were never any employees' leave, as they continued to have to pay 15% of their salary and this resulted in the charging of employers' pockets and the poverty of their pension allowance. Thus, between 1995 and 2008, workers paid €16.4 billion for their pensions and only €10 billion for their employers. It is obvious that the reform has taken place precisely because of this reckless move of the country, which will now have to be paid back by workers and pensioners, which is another proof that capital is forcing the country, but also blindly following it. In short, the country has given off EUR 8.2 billion to economists, from managers' acquisitions, where banks participated with as much as EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 186 million that companies owe to unpaid contributions, and the six billion already mentioned, totalling EUR 8.2 billion. And where did this money end up? In the pockets of directors who, with the help of the state, strengthened their own accounts for companies who received them in an easy way — they got excited. That's why we've had so much bankruptcy and forgiveness. And who are these people? The old socialist politicians and directors, who became new capitalists overnight and who never managed the company before and not today, could always take care of their pockets and friends who made it possible for them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u107	Havela beautiful. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! I'm just going to comment on the amendment to Article 27. I would like to explain why the amendment adopted at the meeting of the working body, which deleted a specific right of women introduced by this law, is a change. In fact, it is funny that, in the first paragraph of this article, which I think is actually the key to this law – if this article is not the same as originally written, although individual periods may be reduced, age may be reduced or whatever else, but in principle the sequence of the paragraphs themselves, which are written, is crucial for understanding and for proper interpretation of the law later, when applied, by domestic means, to the SPIZ, when people are retired. In fact, the most basic condition, fifteen years of working age and fifty-five years of age, is a general condition and is then softened through each year 2011, 2012, 2013, and so on. This condition is relatively hard, for someone who has managed to bring together only fifteen years of work, regardless of whether he is a woman or a man, must live to the age of fifty - five years in order to receive any pension — low, high, whatever it is. Those, I think, following the amendment here – the amendment adopted by the committee – is the right of women to reach retirement age at the age of thirty-six and a half, in 2011, 2012, 2013 with these fifteen years of working age, especially for women, at the age of thirty-six and a half years and later at the age of forty-four and forty-six and a half years, are written in this paragraph. No! No! On the committee – I think due to the carelessness – we have come to the point that we have just deleted this special right for women: Great! "Grandmothers," why would they know more rights than we do, "grandparents" – but no!? Will that be our way of thinking? Let's move on. When people speak in this Chamber today, and even on the committee itself — once or twice, I had the great privilege of being able to share in the consideration of this law and the amendment to the law. Fortunately, not when this stupid amendment was adopted – so that I wouldn't be guilty, I have to say. What's this all about? This article also makes it very clear that by 2025 we will have reached the maximum age and maximum working age that both women and men are expected to reach. Personally, despite being warned in the client 15 years ago, so you will not think that this is a problem that is only one year old, let me never publicly say that I think that women and men should have the same working time for retirement and the same age. Not because I am a feminist and because I think we have to have the same rights, but because of a purely practical reason – the lifespan of women and men is very different, for about 7 years, in favour of women. So, women we've spent 35 years on pension insurance and we've enjoyed 7 years longer than men. I think that, at the very least, this is unfairly shared in society. I agree that we're working more at home, that we have to have children, that we're supposed to be more exhausted, and I think it's the other way around. Just because we have greater efforts, because we are better, because we are more active, we live longer; but this is the reward of nature. Here I would say to talk about how bad this is for those who retire – I would say that this law is intended especially for those who pay for the pension fund. Why? Because of this, if we do not extend the working age, if we do not extend the age, then our children, grandchildren and grandchildren will have to pay a disproportionately higher share of their gross salary to the pension fund or the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance than we have paid. Why? Because fewer people will have to pay for people who live longer, relatively more money. Here we need to think about the fact that this law is not meant to be – because it is not a short - term one, it is a law that goes beyond 15 years. This is not a law that produces effects from one year to the next. This marriage will be known when we have too few people to work with. Because you know exactly that after 2000, our birth rate has increased, but demographic experts promise us that our birth rate will begin to decline again in the next three years. Where do we get people working for us when we retire? In 25, 30 years' time, we're all going to enjoy our retirement, and we're going to depend on those who are going to work actively at that time. That's why I don't think we just have to say that we poor people are the ones we're going to have to work for a long time to see our pension. The poor will be the ones who will have to work under an unaltered pension law so that we can retire for 35 years instead of 40 years. That's the point. We do not accept the law because of the pensioners, we adopt the law because of young people who come and who are already in a working relationship and who are already paying a contribution to pension and disability insurance. That is how I think that this law should be viewed and, above all, that it is working for the next generation. I am not a "bird of malice", as Serbs say, but I must tell you that we are likely to make another radical change in the next 10, 12 years, not us, but our successors in the National Assembly. I hope there won't be too much change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u110	Thank you very much. While the article and the amendment speak of the conditions for reaching an old-age pension, this is a key part of this reform, and that is why there is so much controversy about this amendment. I expected myself, Minister, when you propose a pension reform, that at the same time you will be fully committed to achieving this goal, which you yourself have said is a key objective of increasing labour activity. With pension reform and pension law, only a fraction of this can be achieved, and that is, in fact, my key point. The lack of other important measures to raise employment is also important. Especially the working population, which is also under your department and is in the unemployment office. So we have expected, and not least have we proposed many measures in terms of providing new jobs, and we have even named one package of measures the fight against the crisis as a fight for new jobs. The measures could be very relaxed when we talk about the conditions for an old-age pension, if we also provide enough contributors to the pension fund by today's labour-free or those unemployed and those recipients of social assistance. If this law were upgraded and upgraded by measures that would also encourage them to increase their work activity, it would be easier to understand and accept certain measures. Thus, they are very lonely and relatively radical. It's a reform, it's a law that takes everything and it doesn't motivate anyone. That's the problem with this marriage. He takes it on the one hand to the pensioners because they are disturbed by the coordination of pensions in the future, not to mention the intervention law already behind us and in fact limited the growth of pensions and the coordination of pensions in the coming period. The most striking is the work force; it is according to those who are now in the service and payers in the pension box, but not the army who could and would be linked and included in the insurance by means of job promotion measures. Of course, this makes the boundaries and conditions of retirement more acute and I rhetorically ask you, does it not seem to you in some normal country 40 years of working age for men and 38 years of working age for women a decent condition for retirement? I think that should be enough. However, for most of those, and this law will again strike after the socially weaker: after those who have started working earlier, after those who have started working in jobs with the required lower level of education and are also less paid. After them he will strike the most, for they will have to work for significantly longer than 40 years if they want to receive a full pension, a full old pension; and women will also have to work for more than 38 years. Especially this layer, the largest in Slovenia, which began working there between the ages of 16 and 20, and if I speculate that they were not unemployed, will materially reach the conditions for a full pension before the age of 63 or 65 – this amendment applies and is now being demolished and returned with the amendment of the coalition. That's why I think he's critical of this population as well. Look, when we are sitting in this Parliament, which we have, basically, a large majority of us, college or college, or we studied there somewhere until the 23rd, 25th years, this law will not affect us that much. Otherwise, it will reduce our pensions due to the extension of years of continuous work that are included in the pension base. But he's going to hurt the ones that are the least heard. These are the ones who started working early with lousy wages and will have even more miserable pensions. And who else does he hit besides these busy ones? Young! Young people are directly deterred from getting involved in pension insurance, because the pension is so far, so unattainable and they don't even know how much they're going to get, if they get anything, that they're looking for a variety of circuits through the establishment of companies, through that, that work in the gray field, the black field, and I don't know what other fields, that I'm not even talking about abroad. So he's distracting young people into some kind of integration. Therefore, it is not true, Minister, that the problem is only in early retirement or that this debate on this law motivated people to retire. Many have also gone to the stock market to achieve the conditions for retirement and will be recorded among pensioners only, say, next year or when, because he has now calculated that he can also go to the stock exchange and that from the stock exchange will pass well into peace. That is why I think that this law is essential enough to solve this big problem. I agree with you that the problem, the demographic problem and also the problem further deepened by this crisis, but you have addressed it insufficiently when we speak in the field of possible measures. You have been relatively radical in your pension work, but we are missing one or more new jobs and economic activities in better jobs. For if better jobs are more productive, wages are also higher, and contributions paid. Not to say that in the end, he hits the economy. You have also put more pressure on the economy, especially in those least paid parts, the money for contributions will be increased despite the same level of contribution, not to mention that there is no longer a possible delay in payment. So all the stakeholders are in some way affected, and the sole guardian of the pension allowance will probably be a little easier to sleep.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Look, there's a lot of things that you've said that I'd like to comment on to explain and complement the image that you wanted to create. First, there are reasons for a weak pension fund. There's a lot of them. The most important is demographics; this is simply because the number of active populations is falling relatively, and the number of recipients in the pension register is increasing, making the pensionable cash register weak and increasingly weak. These reasons are far from all the daily, political needs to discuss this issue, are solid, are deeply anchored in the structure of the population of Slovenia, as is the case in other European countries that are old societies. It is clear that it is also necessary to work on the collection of contributions, to cover contributions from all forms of work and to do so through various measures in the field under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance or the tax administration. We introduced into this law what you said was not popular: a ban on the postponement of payments of contributions and so on. All of this is partly included in the law in the second instrument. Of course, it is also true that the pension fund would be more robust if the rate of activity of the population was higher than it is now. We have a goal of 75% in the coming period, which is not yet there. Therefore, measures have been taken and we have therefore taken joint intervention measures. Otherwise, we would probably have, as Mr Pojbič said today, perhaps 120 thousand unemployed. They're gone now. There are so many, 102 thousand and a half, at the latest, and we are still a country in the European Union, in that group of countries with the lowest unemployment rate. In that quarter of European countries, we are constantly moving; once we are a little higher, a little bit lower. We have strengthened the measures of the active employment policy. Thanks to this, too, the employment of the unemployed is much higher this year than it was last year, about 19% of the more unemployed we managed to employ this year than they did in the previous year. These are the measures that go in the direction you want. In the social field, we have adopted two laws that will enter into force next year. There we are implementing an active social policy, where we will work with recipients of money and social assistance, with those who are able to work, so that they can become involved in active life and take care of themselves. Even the Small Work Act, which we have adopted in the National Assembly, is not everyone’s enthusiasm for it, it goes in this direction to include more who deserve, among the payers in the pension register, and also to obtain the appropriate rights set out in this title in order to obtain the rights they go after someone decides to retire. We have already mentioned the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, which is ready and will be in the State Assembly in a very short time, which also regulates part of this area. Finally, in spite of the deep crisis last year, this year has been invested in the promotion of technological reconstruction and the economic stimulus of more resources than was the case in the financial year 2008. These are all measures, parallel measures — some, not all — adopted by this government, and especially by our ministry, in order to bring about changes in pension reform in other areas, in order to be able to support these restructuring processes that we are talking about here. Taking a pensioner with this law is completely incorrect. Even if we change the formula for coordination, we have found in this year's data that when we delete the 151st article of the existing pension law, the amended formula is also more favourable than if we kept the solution that the existing pension law has. It's better when you coordinate. We don't take anything from pensioners. In fact, this will make pensions more coherent than before, irrespective of this change. This is also one of the goals to protect this population, that pensions, as we said, will no longer fall, that their real value will not only be preserved but also slightly greater. On the question of whether 30 and 38 years of retirement are enough. We mostly remain with all those who reach the right age at the age of 38 and 40. However, age is also important because it depends on age, how much time someone will receive pensions and how many pensions he will receive. We cannot deny that our population is ageing. That we are happy that we can live longer, but, of course, every year and every month of this wonderful life must also somehow be financially supported. There's something to live on. As a result, then, we must also count on the long - term enjoyment of pensions. The proposal we make will lead to a solution when, despite the prolonged retirement age, the retirement age will not be reduced, it will remain the same as it is today. Once again, including the amount of pensions now calculated according to these new parameters, as I said before, the starting pension or pension will be higher than 9 to 19%. Don't say she's going down because that's just not true. But you can order another study that will show something different. We trust the experts who have helped us in these calculations and assessments of the impact of this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, my colleague, Breda Pecan, has already explained well how and what to do with Article 27. That the amendment was indeed of a cohesive nature and that it was only by accident, not by conspiring against the sex, that this segment of softening or adjustment 63 to 65 years of age occurred in women under 20 years of age or up to 15. With this amendment, in fact, those who opposed it — if I am not mistaken — were mostly men in the National Assembly — again depriving women of somehow letting go of that softening period when they were supposed to retire. I will certainly support the amendment and ask the Vice-President of the National Assembly to warn my colleagues and colleagues that they are actually sticking to amendments and articles and that they are not speaking on average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I believe all your colleagues have heard you and will respect you. If I warn them, it's no use. Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! I myself have difficulty in supporting this amendment to Article 27 because I am a co-signatory of the amendment which was adopted by the Committee and which has also broken to some extent a number of other solutions in the law in the following articles following in the whole of matter. That way, I don't know what I'm gonna do in the end. However, I would like to say that this amendment of ours was summarized at the request of the unions that this amount of working time at a lower age should be sufficient for someone to retire. The problem of the pension allowance, which is to be corrected by small children in those who would go full-time before the proposed retirement age, is not, in my opinion, the fact that there are fewer employees and therefore fewer contributions, that far too low wages and therefore fewer contributions to the pension register – on the one hand. On the other hand, the fact that 70% of pensioners are below full-time and therefore have a longer life of drawing. These are the reasons for the problems of the pension register, so I think full-time work should not be the reason to put in trouble the pension fund as it is so far. Let me put it this way. We have to ask ourselves why pensions have been falling so far. In this regard, I must commend the law's solutions, which offer a higher replacement rate and an increased pension in the proposed solutions. The problem is somewhere else that this pension, which may be slightly higher than that calculated under the current law, is that for very low payment classes it means a pension below the poverty threshold. This is a problem, and just the extension and the small ones themselves will not compensate for perhaps even that part of the increased costs of the social treasury when people with low pensions come in different ways, either after a security allowance or after social support, in order to have them to survive. That's the problem. We have to fight for more employment, for new jobs, for higher wages, for higher minimum wages, guaranteed salaries in a way that the pension after the new arrangement is above the poverty threshold for all those who work full-time and reach full-time employment. This is not the case after the current minimum guaranteed salaries and after the current regime, and many come into social difficulties because the wages are so small that the pension is no longer available, even full, but also with a protective allowance somewhere on the verge of survival. A single visit to a dentist throws them into poverty, which is, of course, the biggest problem of our time. It is clear that it is possible to attach a full solution in this direction in order to try to provide the current and future pensioners with the kind of pension they have today, not to say that they should be even better in the future. It is surprising that anyone resists accepting a pension fund with the motive to defend and defend pensioners, but if the largest pension organisation of civil society with 250,000 pensioners has agreed to adopt this reform and the proposed formula for coordination in it. On the other hand, it must be said that in the Government this reform, this law that we are talking about today, has been supported by all ministers, including ministers of that party who today opposes these solutions. We from the budget pay three ministers to the party that opposes the resolution of the pension fund and another that does not work at all. So this contradiction is surprising and I have a problem here – pensioners are for reform, but their own party is against and for some imaginary struggle they gain political points. I don't mind if people understand it that way, it's hard for them, not for anyone else, but it causes a lot of trouble when it comes to how to make decisions for the rest of us if they haven't made up their minds and if some people say they're fighting for them and others say they are, that's not true. Unfortunately, the problem is that I have to explain that the ZDUS has not been able to say six months, that someone does not fight for them, because they agree that the pension reform is adopted, and that their ministers agree to this, and that they sit in the government and draw on a budget that their Members have not supported, for example, which is, of course, an additional paradox, etc. There's something else I'd like to say about this. I must say, as far as the coordination of pensions is concerned, this year too, that it is not true that I should agree at any time before that party for half-coordination. If the party did not agree, half coordination would not have been or would have been a problem in the coalition. And hanging my guilt for half-coordinated pensions is a serious lie by the president of that party that was published in Del on Monday, and imposing on me the responsibility for lower pension benefits, and on someone else the credit for some imaginary struggle for them that can only cause this damage to fall to the solution that we provide them with in future pensions, perhaps to many even higher than they would have received under the existing law. This gives me the greatest reservations to define myself here in any way. I don't know what I'm going to do, I might even abstain from this marriage, but after the last amendments are adopted, and I'm going to have to say yes or no. In any case, I was obliged to warn the Slovenian public and the pensioners that it is not my responsibility for half-coordination, that this has been done by a party who today wants to charge this guilt with completely false accusations. I believe that the President of the Government, and perhaps also the Minister, will confirm that I have not made an agreement with anyone and that this has not led to any party being forced to confirm this. If I didn't, I'd just say no. But they said yes without me agreeing or not. I supported it just like everyone else at the time, and I'm not sorry that it was agreed on in a wide range of presences, but certainly not with my person as such. I have to say, I'm sorry that these stories don't support the union. At the same time, I am concerned that if the law is adopted by amending this amendment – paragraph 2 – they are intended to go to the referendum and spend $4 million in the crisis, instead of giving them as a one-off allowance, or for the poor, or for scholarships or anything. I am disappointed that there was no consensus, at least a minimum agreement with the unions, to prevent this waste of money on referendums and to make it more useful to save the country from the crisis and to save both the pension treasury and the budget. I hope that this referendum will not happen if the law is passed. I also hope that it is possible to react very early if it turns out that the law does not produce the results that are expected with the current solutions that are before us on the table. I would like to see the long-term pension fund solid and provide at least such pensions to existing pensioners as they have, although during the crisis with minimum harmonisation, a quarter has been agreed. This quarter was not agreed on to take away their rights from pensioners, but to preserve what they have at all. That's how I understood the intervention law and supported it. But it's a shame that those who don't need that quarter will get it. That's what I said when we passed the intervention law. It would be much better for those with the lowest pensions and salaries to be left alone, but to be fully coordinated, for example, from one border that is still the one with which to survive without coordination over a period of two years. Those who have a thousand or more, or a thousand five hundred, a thousand six-euro pension or salary, do not need that quarter and could be walking; but this is a matter of intervention law that has preserved these relations, although I am sure they must suffer in times of crisis for the benefit of the weak and for the detriment of the stronger. However, when there is no crisis, I do not advocate a balance sheet and I am always prepared to support the appropriate relations that arise from the individual's contribution to my work, as when it comes to pay, as in the case of pensions. The problem is that this moment, and in these two years envisaged, all of them are running out. That is why I have difficulty supporting this amendment and also the law as a whole, because I am concerned about the reaction of trade unions, as I have already mentioned, and the costs that could arise in this regard. I hope this thing runs out of luck! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When we are talking about an amendment returning the original text that we had on the committee table and when it refers to certain groups of women of a certain age a transitional period, the content of the amendment, which has changed this second paragraph in the field itself, is substantially broader, since this raises the question whether the text adopted by the amendment of the whole law of pension reform still follows adequately what was the aim of this pension reform on the basis of the principles set out. When we have to do these calculations, we set not only the two conditions, both age and working hours, an important condition, here we set that age is less necessary a condition such as the number of years of working time. Then it must be asked: if the content of the adopted amendment remains in the final text as well, whether we will have the sustainability of the pension allowance and whether we will have the objective of not following the further fall in pensions. I say this more broadly because it is very much connected throughout the whole context of this law, because the existing text would also mean a number of changes if the text of the article itself with the amendment, as proposed by the three coalition groups, is not adopted. Here I warn you, today it has been told who this law is intended for. I think this law is meant for all generations. Everybody! And all generations here need to see respect for the principle of intergenerational solidarity, and when we talk about changes that change take place on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, solidarity and justice. For it would be very bad to agree that righteousness would be more just for one part of society than for any other, for any one of them would say, weight on the one hand, could mean very negative effects on the other. So, let's say, when we talked about this marriage, we should always have that in mind. When we talked about the demographic characteristics of Slovenian society, this was clear – and also based on calculations based on the knowledge of the Slovenian profession and presented to us when we decided on this. So we did not make up our minds, we did not make a bad decision for any generation – it showed that they showed the current demographic characteristics that would extrapolate in the future, that the pension register could be questioned; that is to say, to raise the issue of the certainty of pensions. I agree with a lot of things that have been said here today, that there is also something to be done in other areas. I expect this government to do more in other areas than has been done so far, and not to forget everything that Mr Minister has said here. So very strong support for the creation of modern technologies, conditions in companies for which we have devoted significantly less attention in good years, where this transition to a higher technological level could be done, is unfortunately delayed. I myself would like to weigh this amendment so that we do not lose sight of this principle of intergenerational solidarity, because if we go towards reconciliation of pensions, that even the retired generation does not bear part of the burden, that a large part of the burden will be borne only by the active population or that we will ignore those generations that will only enter the labour market, in this case a mistake will be made and the reform that is now on the table will need to be corrected very quickly. Therefore, it seems to me that the debate on all these articles and amendments, including those on the table today, is a matter of serious reflection in the direction, how we follow these objectives and at what point we then intervene in a way that we can destroy these objectives. For a very unpleasant message would be – and for example, I belong to that generation, which will be fully, even though we have 20, 25, 30 years of working age today, fully fall in 2025 with all the consequences of this pension reform in 2025 and 65 years. My generation reminds me that we want to move as slowly as possible, due to all the problems facing Slovenian society. Think of us in a way that we can work properly in jobs that will be adapted to older age! For it is impossible to imagine this reform only by saying: raise the age, while in other segments, for example, adapting jobs where older people can work in the jobs they occupy today at a higher age. [[...]] These warnings need to be heard and it is our responsibility to make certain moves and measures at this point as well. In understanding all these circumstances, on the basis of the information I have been able to obtain, to think through, and to correct, even in the debates to complement both the professional services and the professional public, both the lazi public in the Slovenian space, I will somehow assess that the measure in this direction, as it was recorded before the adoption of this amendment, is a measure that balances the principle of fairness among generations so that, in the other solutions that this law brings, we can balance these burdens among all generations, provide the motive that the younger ones remain in the solidarity system, that we are willing to give a certain value to contributions to pension commodities, so that, also on the basis of this same solidarity, we will be assured to survive a decent age in the future and, of course, the motive for young people entering the labour relationship, that it is reasonable to maintain this system of intergenerational solidarity and also solidarity among the rich and poor in thefuture , of which is adopted by the earlyspeech4. I will therefore support the amendment proposed by the three coalition groups in terms of the balance of the measures that this pension reform brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. You're not going to discuss it? Does anyone else want to discuss Article 27? Mr. Rezman Willie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very short. Because this amendment also concerns me and my signature under that amendment that was adopted by the Labour Committee and because that amendment and ambition at the time of this amendment is sometimes somewhat distorted. First of all, I would like to say that it is not as it was said that those amendments were supported on the Committee of Members and Members because they were not present in the coalition, but that there was also some voice behind the amendment within the coalition species. So it wasn't an amendment out of anger against the coalition. The second thing to say is that this amendment tried to reopen the door in order to possibly continue discussions with the social partners in order to possibly find some, slightly different, acceptable compromise solution for more people, but unfortunately this attempt was delayed. I don't know any invitation, not to those who signed the amendment, not to those who actually initiated this amendment, and I think that this has been bad in these negotiations. It was also poor what was evident that the amendment then took some of the rights of women's work. But it was already known at that same session and it was known that there were also some flaws to be overcome by additional amendments. We're doing it today. Today, what was wrong for some women at that time will be improved. However, it will not be possible to correct what was well thought at that time, that working hours or today’s retirement period, as the new terminology and content are called, would be sufficient for women at 38 years of age. This will also fall out of that complementary proposal of the law now, and it will turn out to be able to retire without the young people who have 40 years of retirement and are men. What does that mean? In fact, this means — and I understand this proposaler’s ambition — that we are giving more weight to age than the contributions we are paying, we are giving more weight to some age of human life and less to the age we now call the retirement age. Here we thought that it would be possible to agree on a compromise solution, but it turned out that this was not the case. I know, and I am pleased that in the process, a whole lot of proposals have been adopted, complemented by which the Government or the negotiating group from the source, initially, had to give in; to ease a number of measures that it had previously planned. Today, there will be some of these again, or we have some such suggestions on the table. I also feel in a very puzzling situation when I should, if I wanted to support this amendment, support something that I previously supported at that meeting in a different form. But I know that it is perfectly clear to me that it is not possible to reject all reforms because of any disharmony in individual ambitions. I also think that when arguments are presented, I don't know, quarterly or semi-coordination or freezing, whatever we call it, are not the right arguments. In particular, not because if we take a comparison, a quarter or half freezing that goes to all pensioners, that is to say those who barely survive, and those who have slightly better pensions, it happens here that those who most need help get nothing, or perhaps some not yet in a month. Some others who have a higher baseline for coordination will get slightly more. Therefore, I also think that the more just intervention measure proposed by the Government is fairer because it is only for those who are in need, who are socially at risk, who belong to those we call more vulnerable groups. In short, we now have a number of different alternatives in play, the amendment adopted by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which the Government cannot support because it is collapsing the whole system it has set up, and I understand that. However, it is clear to me that, in the meantime, we could adapt this system more quickly and there would be less opposition, less danger of voting this law today, less danger of gaining a veto of the State Council and less danger of reaching a referendum initiative. Since we may have been a bit clumsy in the negotiations here, all these threats, of course, remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much. May I conclude that there is no further interest in the debate on Article 27? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on Article 27. We move on to Article 28 and two amendments to Article 28. The first one was submitted by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the second by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Anyone want a word with these amendments? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! For the first time, I am calling today to discuss this extremely important law. I doubt that we will have any more law in this mandate that will be more important than this – but enough about this. Article 28(2) Initially, we have to say that on this subject – recognition, especially for mothers – the reduction in working hours due to maternity in one, two in several children, that we have been committed to this since the beginning, in all the drafts of this law. I must say that the Government or the Minister and the Ministry have already listened to this debate not only of ours, to our reasoned wishes, to the argument that this age limit has been reduced at the retirement of mothers in particular. I must say, quite frankly, she took this argument into account. At that time the matter was resolved for three children and 3 times 8 is 24 months. The parental committee then extended the matter with the proposed amendment, namely that more children are now being taken into account. We have always proposed that all children should be taken into account. I've told you many times that mothers with children will never empty their pension register. I have highlighted this several times, and my colleagues have stressed this. Therefore, in this amendment, we propose that the age limit should be reduced in order to reduce the age of an old pension in fact for all children, and that we continue to impose some restriction that it cannot be reduced below 60 years in the case of a man and in the case of an insured person under 58 years of age. Let me point out that now, under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the number 1 is this limit for a man of 58 and for a woman of 56 years. So anyway, we raise this age by two years, both with our father and with our mother. I am sure that this request is sufficiently substantiated. Once again, mothers with more children will not empty the pension register, because after all, children are the ones who, as colleagues have said before, will also pay for the retirement allowance at the end of those generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must also say that I personally support the first amendment to this article, as well as the amendment to the same article, which mentions that in paragraphs 5 and 6 "three quarters of the period" is deleted and replaced with all the time. This is about military service. In the process of denationalisation, our country has returned a great deal of property to the denationalisation beneficiaries. Among these denationalisation beneficiaries, there were also many questionable, such or different. I wouldn't have listed them here and mentioned them. I think that it is necessary to remove the injustice of these men who, in the past, in the country where they lived and were a common country to us, served a military service. Military service was compulsory, no one asked if they wanted to serve military service, but they had to go where the state had said. She also set a time for military service. The time of service was not set for all equally. Some served in the past for two years, some even three. Then it was a year and a half, 15 months and a year. If you weren't there or didn't get there, you had a second chance — you went to the Age. That was two things. This same country did not pay contributions to pension and disability insurance for military bonds serving military service, as well as health and other insurance. She did not give these men any payment if we subtract the amount that individuals received for the "cline catalog" and for the basic functions of life, the same man had to take care of it before leaving for the military or have parents who also helped him to have a decent time serving in the military. It is right now that this law also eliminates this injustice and that it also recognises the entire period of service of the military deadline for deductions in the retirement pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. The LDS Club has tabled an amendment to this article to the content on which it has just been discussed. This decision was guided by the principle of righteousness. If it has been stipulated by law that all young boys were required to be required to serve in the military and during this period when they could and could not have done so, it is appropriate for them to be recognised, in contrast to what is stated in the current text of the law, for the reduction of the age requirement of three quarters of this period in order to be fully recognised. I must say that the law at this point has changed considerably since the proposed text, which was tabled in the National Assembly and an attempt has been made in the first step to take account of three quarters of this period of compulsory military service to reduce the age requirement as a condition for retirement, today we propose that this whole period be included. As an additional argument, it is also noted that the law adopted in 2000 which, in the context of the articles which allowed the application of the so-called added period, included compulsory military service and therefore prescribed this law for a certain transitional period. The transitional period would expire in 2013 with 12 months recognised. Therefore, it seems appropriate for us to take into account the mandatory service of the military period as a whole. Given the fact that fewer generations of these beneficiaries have expired each year, and given that we have organised a military system on a different basis after independence in the Republic of Slovenia, of course it would seem appropriate to write this in this article as proposed by this amendment. In addition, we note the link with one of the following articles, which discusses the possibility of purchasing certain years, with the amendment adopted by the Committee that the conclusion of this mandatory military deadline is included in this period and that the basis for the calculation of the buy-back period has been reduced compared to the basis for buying-in for the remaining years. We therefore propose that this amendment – and we also expect and want the support of other Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Both amendments to Article 28 are worth all the attention and debate. I think that the situation of motherhood, which is still an important topic in this country, is being adequately addressed with the existing proposal. Also as far as military regulation is concerned. I support all these reflections and will join them in their decision-making. To what extent we manage to enter military or motherhood, they will show the decision on amendments. I am sure that I will fully support the one invested by our House of Representatives. However, I would like to touch on other issues concerning pension reform, which, if we want this country, is good for this country, one of the crucial issues. In LDS, we particularly want a balanced, coherent, equitable development of society; a society that will be favourable to all generations. Personally, I think that we have made a number of imbalances, some injustices, some overemphasis, because these societies are not just pensioners, but of course they are an important and valuable part of our society. In the debate we have almost avoided the youngest generations, and those who will pay pension contributions are waiting for work; we have not touched on the thinking of that generation that we are currently paying contributions to the pension fund and is still important, and of course we are defending and defending the position that we must take care of a balanced system in which all generations will be seen. Those who benefit from the results and the funds collected on pensions, such as those already created and still will, because if we do not balance things, the differences will be too great. How will we explain to the generation of the youngest, those who care, whether by their work and payment to the pension fund in 15, 20 or 30 years they will have pensions, whether it is possible to think better than we do and in the world already do, run to espeia and various other forms of minimum pension payments, then, of course, take care of their security either in the second, third or with savings, or whether we really want to have Slovenia, which will be friendly to all generations, so that we do not get something like that in Ireland where 200,000 young people think about moving out of the country. This pension reform that we are talking about today – and I hope it will – and it is advocated by the minister, is expected to last 10 to 15 years. We need to see this period and keep looking. During the discussions, we touched on the figures, around 30 million, which were disputed in order to achieve a possible wider consensus, a broader consensus. But look, math is ruthless, it's not a question of 30 million, as it's pointed out in the media, nor is it, as rhetoric or politics like to say, a "million dollar question". This is a question for a billion and 323 million euros, or a thousand 323 million euros each year, which, in addition to the contributions already paid, we pay from the state budget that this pension system is sustainable. These are the essential questions that we want answers to, even in the amendments to Article 28, and in those points and considerations that I have said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much. This debate, respected colleagues and colleagues, reminds me of a debate about who will give more. Above all, I have a problem with the first amendment of the Slovenian People's Party because I will not support it and, with this, I will say, I will also vote against my own interests. I belong to that crazy generation that studied regularly, having children at the same time, but these children will not be considered as deductions due to the conditions that we wrote down. Why won't I support this article? The coordination we have already carried out has shown that the effects of the pension reform on which we have been counting are strongly melting as a glacier. If we continue to do so, there will be very little left of this reform. I was very pleased to be among the first to defend, in addition to the People's Party, the view that we must also respect motherhood; and this unconditionally, for every child, because children are the ones who will pay for our future pensions. But I'm sorry, there's a limit somewhere. I'll say the same about the amendment of respectable colleagues. What scares me is that there will be no male coalition. The male coalition, which, irrespective of the party's borders, will support this amendment. It is not enough for you to admit to an additional year for your purchase, it is not enough for us to admit to you that this sum is made at a minimum price. No! No! We want the whole time of the army! When my son went into the army, he said I was one of the most cruel mothers because I was sending him into the army because he wasn't the best during that period. I think he's doing very well! I think the military was a very good school for everyone, even for maturation. If we tell you to admit to you three quarters of what you did in the army, and you have the opportunity to buy it off on minimum terms, I think that's enough. However, if we want to continue, we can go ahead and let go of any further article and there will be nothing left of the pension reform. But this will be Pir's victory, dear colleagues, because tomorrow we will wake up with a terrible cat – a reform that will be much more cruel than this will have to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that again. I have discussed only the first amendment before, but after the president of the committee has now commented on men and so on, let me say that we have tabled the amendments, the comments we have made, we have put them on the first amendment, for mothers with multiple children. You brought your dads back in the coalition – it was never my idea. I have always talked about positive discrimination against mothers, including on the committee, even in discussions with representatives of the ministry, I have always talked about positive discrimination. So much for men. Our proposal was, above all, to recognise a reduction in retirement age for mothers I've said twice before that mothers with more children will not empty the pension register because these children will be paid to the pension fund, this mother will not empty it, even the one who has eight children. Tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, how many such mothers there are in Slovenia. Unfortunately, almost nothing, just something probably, well, I don't know, I don't have that information. My fault is many times that I don't get enough actual data, but I'm sure that's my claim. As far as the second amendment is concerned. Yeah, well, we made an amendment to Article 134! Our proposal, however, which was rejected on the committee, was that – this is again a "man" matter – be considered compulsory service during the retirement period. So this was corrected by the coalition amendment, three quarters of the age as a reduction in age. For this reason, we are still proposing in Article 134, later because we were unable to count it during the retirement period. But as far as this intermediate option given by the LDS Group is concerned, we do not oppose it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to drop by on those amendments, but I think there's something to say, a little pure wine. ZPIZ-1, it is said that the current law, which is still in force, recognises for each child differently according to the number of children in the family. For example, now, in three children next year, after the STIZ-1 will be recognised 27 months during the retirement period, of course for three children. And then a little more, every year a little more, because this law, the current law, is not over, it is still in transition, there are still transitional periods, and in 2015 three children would be recognised after the current law 36 months, it is said, three years for each child one year. ZPIZ-2, the current law, admits eight months. At first it was only said for three children, now it is 8 months for each child. In Slovenia, only 3% of mothers have more than three children. Only 3%! It is said that the fear of the premature retirement of mothers with multiple children makes no sense. Okay, let's say eight months per child. Okay. We have always advocated that only mothers, because pregnancy and childbirth are at great risk, health and physical risk; for some more, for some less. Based on that, I think these ratings should be given. Only mothers and all mothers. And here's the law, so it makes sense to expand the possibility for every child. Why? The ministry generously decided: OK, we will not give a whole year to the child, but only 8 months, but to all children. But it's only going to count to what age? [[...]] By the age of 63, the age or insured persons may not be reduced below 61. That's what they say, all ratings, all recognized, extra burdens, all over again, the minister limits. It's over! That's it! What if there's more of these things coming, more of these entitlements coming in here? It's over. They are very easy to remove rights, as they would say, say you have the right to pay, you have the right to transport to work, you have the right to eat at work, but only to a certain limit. Pika. This is said to be because you live very far away, you have no right to travel to work to a certain limit — then you no longer have the right to eat. I don't know where that makes sense to the Minister. We never said that there was no need to make the system financially sustainable. Never! But the element of justice and the logic of normal farm thinking must still be in this. It's got to be that, come on! How can you be dissatisfied with this marriage? What's with the dissatisfaction? The dissatisfaction that is now in this situation is calmed by the society of pensioners and by some unions, but not by people. The leaders of these organizations kind of agree with all of this, but people don't. We receive thousands of e-mails asking what will happen to our rights, which we are counting on next year. Mr Žnidaršič said that the pensioners, 250 000, had adopted this law. Which one of the pensioners? Guys! Is society the perfect representative, the legal representative of the pensioners? Is DeSUS that legal representative of the pensioners? Of course, he's a representative of all people, not just pensioners. That's how much DeSUS is a pensioner like me. Not anymore. We also have a very strong senior and senior club, a few thousand of them, and we're not saying they're all pensioners. They don't talk, they can't speak for all the pensioners. In all these matters in this law there is so much confusion, so much fog, so much that people are really scared, no one hopes to pour pure wine on them, and in these things, in the rights of mothers, for children, their rights will be halved – it will be good for them, but let us stop going with some demagogue how they will have the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dr. Svetlik asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In these two amendments to this Article, what I have said in the introductions must be said. We understand the claim for more rights, but at the same time, let us be aware that each added right also means the weakening of the pension allowance. This is a fact that needs to be taken up at the same time as we are discussing it. But speaking of lowering the age limit for children now, I must say that the 37th article of the existing pension law says it can be reduced. In fact, the age limit, without the possibility of reducing retirement or working hours — the age limit can now be reduced, in the existing law; nothing else we do in a new one as recorded in the old one. The only difference is that, depending on the desire to extend our work activity, we raise that minimum slightly higher. It is stated here in Article 3 of the existing law that it can be reduced in women up to 56 years and in men up to 58 years. If we now raise this limit, as we expect that the work activity will be extended on the basis of other articles, we will come up with a solution, as is currently the case in this law, which we are proposing, which is also adopted. It's 60 years and 63 years for men. Thus we do nothing else here, and there is no greater change; and it is not true that there is any other confusion here. In the course of this debate, I would like to say the following. I think it is very important that so far there has been a category of working hours 38 or 40 years – working hours: coming to work for so many years and so many years. Now we are operating with a second category, it is said, a second category of "retirement period" was introduced 38 or 40 years, where the time is also considered when someone was, for example, unemployed or on parental or maternity leave because his contributions were paid at that time. In this respect, even the conditions for retirement are slightly lessening as regards the expected period of time when someone was working. Thus, this difference must also be borne in mind when we discuss how much or not the conditions are exacerbated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I did not even want to discuss this article myself, but I was encouraged by the debate by Mrs Črnak Meglič, who I think was a little too arrogant. I wonder what right you're here to say to this site that you've given in to some of our demands. I didn't recognize myself, ma'am, because I'm not a member of this committee, but look, your name, which your client has, certainly doesn't deserve – a social Democratic party – because anything other than this could be worth it in a debate like this. I mean, next. It is right that pension legislation is as fair and solidarity as possible, but such a law as it is is neither one nor the other. If I go back to this amendment. I don't even play the part that this law is written on my skin or that it's going to deprive me or not. I am not even thinking about whether I am going to experience that age when I can come to peace, because today it has been said that it is likely that reform will have to be substantially changed again before 10 years. But I look more at those people who are now in a period when they may have a few years to retire. To those who have already been deprived of their marital obligations in the past, we now wish to repress all these matters with articles or solutions such as this law brings. In particular, these two amendments to this Article. Military. Mrs Meglič would probably want us to have to pay something extra now that we were privileged to learn something in the military. Perhaps some who have not yet retired have served for two years — and is this fair to those who have not served? I am not now in favour of accepting this solution, but then let us be as righteous, just as we are to all. I am more disturbed by some dilemma about this proposal proposed by the Slovenian People's Party; Slovenia is already facing demographic problems that we have too low birth rates. I think it should be our society's effort in this direction to not only try to motivate women, especially women, to make decisions about children more easily. What is the greater guarantee of filling the pension allowance than that our birth rate is increasing, that a woman has two, three children?Oh, my God! This is the guarantee, for this can be encouraged! And don't just look at the fact that this is now some kind of rating, some privilege for those who have a few years to retire and a few more children than the average in Slovenia. I also agree that these women will certainly not empty the pension register if this is taken into account. So I think that such an amendment can be useful in the long term and can only contribute positively to the pension fund and also to our nativity, which is threatened in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The replica is made by Mrs. Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues and colleagues, you have this bad luck to sit on this side and look on the other side. I wasn't thinking of anyone, and I also think I looked at all my colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] What I wanted to say in my debate is that we have taken very many steps in order to recognise military ratings, to call it that. [[...]] We have taken two steps, we need to meet them and read them, and I will not repeat them. As for family policy, I am one of the founders of family policy in Slovenia. Maybe I can tell, colleague Anderlich knows that we fought the battle for a one-year maternity leave. I am also one of those who think that family policy needs to be upgraded; and this is the measure that will help to ensure that mothers and families decide for more children. However, women’s early retirement for children will not contribute to this. Unfortunately, they can't have them back then.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u142	I'll talk about the second amendment to Article 28. I'll speak for myself and the name of a few ten thousand generations of the year's fifty-six. It's not enough for me, I point out, it's not enough for me to be able to even buy out three quarters of my military service by accepting an amendment. It's not enough for me, nor am I going to buy it because I didn't want to fly off to serve JLA at the time. Alone and ten thousand others we were already at work, on day x I got a printer in the workbook and my working relationship broke for one year. One year I did not have paid pension and social insurance, so I had to work elsewhere — then to serve my country. My country didn't pay me for that job, but that's her problem, not mine. If I had a choice, I'd stay at work, where I've been and worked on it, and today I'd be 36 years old at work, and today I'd have a pension box for one year more paid pension contributions. I was forced to leave. I was forced to break up. I have this right, and all tens of thousands and a few tens of thousands of my generation to demand that I confess. I have this right because I was forced into some act, because if it were my will, I would do it and honestly put it into the pension register. This option has been taken away from me, so I do not intend to buy three-quarters of a year, but I demand that there be many others here, this returns in the form of a reduction, as the amendment was written by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Clearly, single, domestically speaking and honestly, or, if you want, this country should sue the former Yugoslav State, which should pay us all to serve the military deadline for that period of pension and social insurance. I support this amendment, absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u143	The word has Joko Godec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Which amendment I'm going to support, I don't know exactly. I'm going to ask my colleague Jursha – why? Today we have even experienced the removal of our representative from the home committee. Madam President-in-Office of Montenegro Meglic seems to have taken over the leadership of the coalition and has simply removed our representative from this committee. That seems like a very unusual act to me. Yesterday, the head of the coalition, Mr. Pahor, was informed why we cannot fully support the law. Everyone knows this, I'm sure, because it's been told so many times, so I'm not going to say it again. All the accompanying laws or regulations that were parallel have been supported and adopted by our cooperation. Some of us are condemned as collectors of political points, but you forget that you were members of this party in the past. The party has its own upright attitude, its own agenda, its own principles. Personally, I'm sure they've got a stake on this client. There's a membership application on the internet. They should apply again, the decision is from the party's management whether or not they will accept their application. Some opposition or positional MPs, such as Mrs Orazem – too bad she is not here – have viewed our actions in the newspaper as irresponsible. I don't know how she voted for the previous budget to ask where she put her vote. He was nowhere to be found. There was a lot more talk today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u145	Mr. Godec, there's something I'd like to warn you. Please, we are discussing Article 28 or the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u146	I will support this amendment [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u147	Please, if after this introduction [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u148	I will support this amendment because he also said that he was good. While he could still be on this committee [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u149	I know there's been a lot of things going on here today. Listen to me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u150	I'm going to support the amendments he said. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. The LDS Member Club, which has tabled this amendment to recognise compulsory military service as a period that can be deducted from the age needed to meet the pension conditions, has in no way considered a rating. I didn't understand myself when I got the call in 1985 that I had to go to compulsory military service and I was regularly employed for an indefinite period of time to get home a message for some ratings. When I talk to my colleagues, no one understands that this is some kind of rating, but instead of being regularly employed at the time, we have done one year of service to our country, somehow under this password we have been targeted and then we have gone; even if we wanted to make a different use of this time. Speaking of which, we are aware of all of this, including the fact that we were working in the military at the time. We didn't go to sunbathing, like, but lay down. At the time, the system was such that the state was regulating things that we were not given, except beer, two, maybe a month for that little wage — well, housing and food and those things were already there. But today, this proposal only proposes that this year or this time be considered in its entirety, not for three quarters, but in its entirety. For redemption, however, the proposal was only on this basis, because the past period knew this solution and that we would not introduce a solution after a period of time discriminatory in relation to the generations that had retired before the generations that would now, we were looking for some consensus. Otherwise, at the principle level, I would be happy to agree with this idea that this year would be included in full both in the retirement age and in the decline in age. But don't understand that here we think there's some kind of ratings that we've been given. This is a real situation which, at some point in time, has been an integral part of this system, and we are just asking whether society is willing to accept this today and to incorporate it into some extent under this pension law. Of course, let the debate show whether the thoughts we are trying to argue with you today are correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u153	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and both amendments? I guess not. We move on to Article 30. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u154	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u155	Anyone else? I'm asking. Not yet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u156	Thank you. Here are a number of open questions, or we have touched them with an amendment. For this is an article which speaks of a pension basis; this is the basis from which the amount of the pension is calculated. Our first point is that the base should be calculated from 24 consecutive years. Now it's the 18 most pleasant consecutive years. This is said to be the calculation of the pension from the salary during that period. Of course, the original government proposal was 34 years old. This is said to be a drastic leap from 18 to 34. But then it was agreed on the committee that this should be the 30 years from which three of the worst years could be taken away, that is to say 27 years. Since the Faculty of Economics had already done the analysis mentioned here, it found that the period from which the pension is calculated is as long as possible, the worse the pension. Compared to 18 years, if extended to 34 years as the first proposal, the pension would be 12 and 10% lower than the average of 18 years. At the age of 30, this percentage is almost 10% for men, 8% for women. However, if we went on 24 years, as we suggest, it would be 5.5% for men and 4.6% for women. We believe that this is a large enough sacrifice for future pensioners and that 24 years is a suitable time, especially at a time when there are many years in the first years, for example, the first twenty years of large job interruptions and so on, job interruptions, occasional unemployment and so on. The other thing we do with the amendment is the pension basis for how to comply. The pension base is taken into account when all contributions are deducted from the gross salary, that is to say, taxes and contributions and deductions of taxes and contributions were sometimes very difficult when there were no accurate records and once established practice to take account of the percentage of taxes and contributions for all equally. If you had a small salary or a large salary, for all the same. What was deducted, taxes and contributions in a certain percentage, was the same for all, on average. What remained was the basis from which the pension was then calculated. That looks very fair, but it's not. For this general, average assessment, average rate, percentage is very favourable for those who have a high salary, and unfavourable for those who have a minimum wage. For with them this rate of taxes and contributions is inappropriately lower than the average. As a result, those who had a low salary have an inappropriately lower pension than those who had a high salary. Although the upper limit is also the highest pension and the lower limit is also the lowest pension. But this relationship does not seem smart to us, especially if we follow the path that the minister had already foretold several times before that the pension should be adjusted as much as possible to the actual contributions. We propose not to follow the average any more, it is said that the base of gross wages is calculated and an average percentage is deducted from gross wages, all the same, but that it is now time for this digital, computer technology to keep a record for each insured individual. And third, what we propose is that the pension base also includes the period. This is the period that the law provides for, in 151st article, where it says that you can add up to five years of retirement, but at the rate of contribution as it applies to you at that time. That means if you have a good salary, you have to pay as much as you pay for your pension at the time. Of course, no one will be stupid and will not buy the time because he prefers to deposit that money on the bank, but he will have direct benefit and he will get the percentages. This is said, after that actual salary, according to the actual salary, but at least at the average wage per employee. Who will buy a minimum wage period that they will have to buy and pay at the rate applicable to the average wage?Oh, my God! But yet this marriage, if anyone was so stupid, would buy up that time, would not count as a pension base. For paragraph 6 states that, irrespective of the second paragraph of this Article, the calculation of the pension base shall not take into account the basis referred to in that article which I quoted earlier. We are proposing a slightly more normal approach, which will be better written down by some logic, which means a more normal pension law and a system that people would adopt.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u157	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We need to decide what we really want. When we talked about the possibility of generating time at the expense of serving the army, we said that this must be at the lowest possible price. If we have made this decision, we cannot expect at the same time to take into account this same period at the lowest price at a higher price. This needs to be brought into a consistent order, so to speak, one that is consistent by logic — probably. Thus, it is difficult to accept such an argument. As for the period taken into account for the calculation of the pension base, it is true that the longer this period, the more it affects the amount of the calculated pension base, is well established. And the shorter it is, the lower the pension base on this account will be. However, in the same study that you mentioned and cited over and over again, it turns out that regardless of whether we extend the period for calculating the pension base, on the fact that we will also set a higher dose percentage and that we will end the horizontal equivalence, we will receive pensions that will be higher than 9 to 19%. The lower the salary class, the higher the pension, the lower the salary, the higher the pensioner’s salary. That's why this solution is in marriage. But there's something else I'd like to warn you about. This article, which extends the period for the calculation of the pension period, is a typical example of the article following the logic of the apparent pension accounts. We would like, ideally, to take into account all the years when someone was employed and paid, then we would really come to an appropriate pension, because we would take into account exactly what someone paid. Now, all of a sudden, let's turn the logic upside down. We don't like that anymore. We want to have this period shorter. We need to consider what the objective is, in fact, these changes. It seems to me that the solution you are proposing to shorten this period is inadequate, given that we are thus significantly more burdened by the pension fund. It is said that it has a very strong impact on the achievement of the first objective, which is the stability of the pension register, and this is also an unfair solution. Unfair because then he allows someone to pay this shorter period much more, and then when he has reached that period, he simply goes to minimum contributions and does not contribute properly at that time, but he will get that minimum, equal pension, regardless of whether he has paid that minimum. That's, I believe you'll agree, an unfair solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u159	Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u160	I have a feeling, Mr. Secretary, that you didn't understand, I may have misinterpreted. I'll try again. It's not about getting up in the military, not at all. It is a sum-up that has been in this law all along, in Article 136 – I must mention it, even though we are not yet there. This is what the first paragraph says: "The insured person or pensioner may acquire up to five years of insurance for the fulfilment of the conditions or for a more favourable amount of pension under this law." It's something other than military. And then it is also stated in Article 151 that for this acquisition it is necessary to cut quite firmly into the pocket, the wallet, because it says that the basis for paying the contribution to add the periods referred to in Article 136(1) – this is what I quoted – during the pension period is the same as the amount of the insurance base from the calendar year before the application was made, increased by a percentage of the increase in the pension and so on. It is said that it takes a strong cut in the pocket for this sum. But despite this prediction in Article 136, and despite paying inappropriately for the military. For the military it is the other – let alone, it is the minimum – but here, where it is predicted that for better conditions and for a better rate of pension under this law you will acquire a working age based on the same salary you now have – it is said that you are actually financing cash – and in article 30 you said that this is not included in the pension base. Mr. Minister, don't talk about these cases again in this individual pension account and approximation, because what you're doing is far from that. It's a distance from that idea. Because if I've paid a hard price for some retirement and that doesn't apply to me, I'm sorry, then it's not my pension far or in line with what I've paid. This is our amendment, these are three – I will not continue to speak because it is a waste of time, we need it for other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u161	Can we move on? To this article is another amendment of the three coalition groups, which I must say that if the previous amendment of the SDS Group is adopted, this amendment, under number two, is irrelevant. We continue with the amendment to Article 40 – the SDS proponent. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. This is about our rehearsing to keep the state pension. The minister will say that this is a departure from the idea that the pension should be the expression of what we have paid. This is true of those who have not paid for 15 years, so it is said that they may have paid for 14 years or not at all. This state pension was granted by the current law, which was passed ten years ago, to 16,000 or about 16,000 recipients of this state pension. The state pension is €180 – I may not know how much. The total amount of the state pension is about 35 million — something like this cost us, you can fix me. This pension was indeed intended for those who did not reach the 15-year threshold for a minimum pension of 35%. This is a third, 33% of the lowest pension. This pension did not require social assistance for these people, but it meant some personal confirmation for these people, some great value, inadequately higher than the value of the euro itself. We believe that if we were to think at the same time about universal basic income, at least this right would be left as a substitute for universal basic income and at least for those who already have that right not to take it away. The Minister will say that we have already arranged for social transfers, but social transfers are actually becoming just one loan of the country, which the descendants will then have to repay. This means that in that particular layer, we will generate poverty from generation to generation, and we will not allow that layer to slowly emerge from poverty. That's our proposal, I think it's corrected. Certainly does not mean much for the pension fund, but it means a lot for those who are without all income.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u163	We continue the debate on the amendment to Article 108. Since the amendments of the SLS Group to Article 108 and the SDS Group Amendment to Article 428, paragraph 2, deal with the same substantive issue, we will discuss them together. Anybody want a word? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This is one of the points that we have discussed on several occasions in the Committee debate. In fact, there is often a problem that independent entrepreneurs who want to continue their domestic and artistic activities as self-employed entrepreneurs, even when they retire, are often in an unequal position to many other categories, and actually have to close their activities when they meet the conditions for retirement, even though their activities would still be very welcome for the activity they are doing. That is why we propose this amendment, and we also propose that we accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u166	Well, I'm surprised you put both members into a debate, because our amendment to Article 428 is slightly different. I wonder if you'll be able to reopen article 428 for our amendment to that article and discuss it?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u167	I think I made myself clear when I said we were discussing both articles. Here you are, but there is another amendment to Article 428 to the coalition groups and to the SDS amendment. If you wish to discuss this article, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u168	That's what they say. All three amendments are being treated at the same time. Then I will now talk about Article 428 and our amendment to this Article. Indeed, the current law of ZPIZ-1 now allows certain categories of craftsmen to continue to be retired and certain craftsmen to continue to operate even after they have fulfilled the full conditions for the retirement pension. This law does not allow this. We wanted this article, which opened up in PIZ-1 to limit this possibility and not extend it to all possible categories of craftsmen, because there is a very broad article in ZPIZ-1, but let us limit it only to domestic and art trade, so that only those who do domestic and art trade can do this activity even after they retire. Because we have about 100 registered craftsmen. Such registration is very difficult to come by, I must say, it is an art craft that is very rare, which is disappearing, because there are no younger ones, and perhaps someone will find it that is still doing it, or perhaps if their son has not been able to impress it, but the grandson will succeed. In short, it is a minimal matter, with which we can help a lot in Slovenian tourism.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u169	Can we proceed with Article 134? Anybody want to talk? Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u170	Thank you very much again for your word. Earlier in the debate on compulsory service of military service, I also said that our initial proposal was to take into account the retirement period during military service. The amendment of the coalition was then adopted on the Committee to reduce the retirement age by a period of three quarters of compulsory military service. We believe, as I have discussed before, that it is necessary to create families, and so on, because at the time individual taxpayers did not have the opportunity to either get a job or school, and especially not to work, so on, we believe that this period should be counted during the retirement period. This is about the previous debate, I think about Article 28. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u171	We continue with Article 136, where we have the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. This is an amendment that would allow the completion of the insurance period not only for those who served compulsory military service, but also for the duration of a regular study. As I have already said, after the current law this year they are still recognised 9 months a year at an added time, next year 10 months a year, it is said that the following year for those who have studied for four years or five years a regular study would mean that four years after the present law would be recognised at an added time. You're obviously going to do this, you're going to completely delete this option, the protection of the expected rights is gone, suddenly there's nothing that's never happened before. Those who counted on it and counted on it years ago when they could retire will now be taken four years. Those who dreamed that he would be able to retire next year may not be able to retire until six years later, or at 65 years of age, but then he will have little to do because he has less retirement age, and so on. At least this should be allowed to add up these years according to the same principles as the mandatory military deadline can be reached. That's all we're suggesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u173	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u174	If you allow me when you think about this proposal, all I have to do is point out the following. In the existing proposal, it is possible to reach up to five years of age, of course also a study or anything else. If we accepted this amendment, it would mean that someone who is wealthy enough can buy a quarter of the pensionable age. If this is a just solution, judge for yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u176	Well, the minister has a habit of speaking only part of the truth. Those five years of summation, as I said before, you have to cut to the elbow in your pocket, get a military deadline, and similarly there's a minimum rate of contribution. You know, for some, that may not be the difference, but for many of us it is. Those five years that you have entered as a fog that will never come true can now be deleted if you are afraid of buying ten years of work or retirement. We can delete it now, but allow those who were unable to work at 20 years of age to obtain for study the right that the current law has given them without buying it, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u177	We continue with Article 140 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the SLS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u178	Here again we revived the idea of an information personal account. Otherwise, there is a commitment that the pensioner or the institution will draw up parent records that are intended to be accessible to the insured, but we believe that it is necessary to write more specifically, more clearly and categorically about the informational personal account which somehow constitutes the basis for the future NDS system that the Minister spoke about this spring. At the time, he said that if we wanted to introduce NDS in a few years' time, the system should be set up in this direction today. He has forgotten these things, many things have been forgotten, and since we have not forgotten, we have entered this informational personal account into Article 140. I hope you support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u179	Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u180	Thank you very much. At all stages of our time, we have always highlighted this problem of the possibility of informing or looking at an individual in this account or in his/her position at the pension register or at the SPIZ. In this information age, we think it is literally strange that such a system has not been established for a long time. We are aware that if there is no such thing, there is nothing that takes some time. Therefore, we have also written down that access to this home record and to informational calculations is further prescribed by the Minister by means of a sub-legislative act. As stated, the amendment is similar to the SDS amendment, as my colleague Tsukati had previously explained. It is the establishment of this information system on the SPIZ in the form of an information account of each insured person individually and the possibility of looking into the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u181	Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. If Mr Tsukati spoke in this amendment about the forgetfulness or supposed dementia of the ministry, then at least for me it would also be true to say something about the schizophrenia of the amendments tabled. We have also heard on the Committee the reasons why the introduction of an information account with this reform is not yet possible. I hope that you will all agree that, however, the commitments made in this law regarding the notification of insured persons are much greater than in any previous law, so that the step is probably in the right direction, although one would like to object. But what I wanted about schizophrenic amendments, that's it. We are now returning to this idea of an informational calculation, which, of course, is the right direction, and at the same time, the same candidate is also filling this proposal in second reading with amendments, which are doing exactly the opposite: they are reducing the accounting period. Because if I really wanted to be righteous, we should look at, open this information account, and all the years when it's paid, check the payments, and on that basis it would be a just pension. You can't talk about this imaginary account, at the same time require a shorter accounting period, which is unfair, if we're fair, and ratings for buying here, ratings for buying there. After all, it is likely that it will be difficult to calculate what is in this virtual account after all, then only the appearance will remain, and the accounts will be far away from being clean. I have tried to extract from the amendments that have been tabled, what is the real purpose of the reformer or how he imagines his pension system, and unfortunately I have not been successful in doing so. As I'm told, I find the amendments tabled contradictory.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u183	We continue with Article 147, namely the amendments of the three coalition SD groups, Zares, LDS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We're going to 156. Here you go, Mr. Tuckyat, a little faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u184	Yeah, I was holding my hand, I'm sorry, but you didn't see it. I will not talk so much about the amendment as about the article, because the debate is about the article and the amendments to this article. Here is the lowest basis for calculating contributions for insured persons 60 % of the last known average annual employee salary. This is said to be 60% of the lowest base on which contributions are paid and the minimum wage is 50% of the average wage. This is said to mean that those who have a minimum wage will have to pay 20% more in their pension allowance than in their contribution rate. This is said to have a 20% higher tax, instead of 50%, 60%. And then we studied why we should go this way, and then we saw in the European Parliament resolution of 20 October 2010 on the role of minimum income, and there it says, as the European Parliament resolution states, "there must be a basis for systems of adequate minimum income at least 60% of the median income in the country concerned." They say that the minimum income must be at least 60% of the average wage. When you achieve that the minimum income will be 60% of the average wage, then we will agree that the minimum base for contributions is 60% of the average wage. Until then, that's not fair!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u185	Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This Article is nothing more than the introduction of a new tax in the economy. In fact, a large majority or a significant proportion of workers and workers in Slovenia receive minimum wages and contributions to health and pension insurance and other social insurance are also deducted from these minimum wages. Therefore, if the basis for the calculation of contributions increases, these contributions will also be higher at the same rate of contribution. So employers, the economy will have to pay more for the same thing, 20% more depending on the current contribution. Let me remind you of the Prime Minister's announcement that he will not increase taxes and other contributions, which affects the competitiveness of the economy. We already have too much labour in Slovenia, not due to wages, wages are largely due to the burden of work: tax burdens, levels of contributions and so on. After that, we are the least competitive, all the competitiveness scales of the Slovenian economy point to the excessive workload of work and here again intervenes in this direction. I think that's really unacceptable. As I was saying, the vast majority of people – not the vast majority – will all be affected by this reform and even for the economy means one unacceptable blow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u187	Madam Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. I think it is necessary to clarify here that this article has been a transitional period for as long as possible. Why was 60% of the average wage paid? This is because if we look at what is the lowest pension base that guarantees any citizen who fulfils the conditions to obtain it, it is precisely calculated that at least 60% of the average wage should be paid at a given time. So all of this, if we say that individuals can pay less than they can, we admit that they can contribute less to the common treasury, with increased solidarity and the question of whether this solidarity is justified. At this point, the comparison is because with the minimum wage in the SPIZ this was equal if we now look at the ratio between the minimum wage and the average wage is on average 50%. This will also apply as this contribution will be raised by two percentage points from 2013 onwards. So, from 2013 onwards and to 60%. We'll get to that a few years later. So it means that this is not exactly what we expect to be economic growth at the time, but it is likely that we are paying for what we are getting in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u189	Mr. Mag. A vision replica, or are you going to discuss it? Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Perhaps it is still necessary to tell what the cost of work and whose work are those who are too high with us. We have too high the cost of intellectual work, of engineering work, of short-term highly educated staff, which also have high added value and higher wages. With us, unfortunately, we don't know the Social Cap Institute. To some it seems to be the most vamped thing, because capitalism has invented it, and to others we are convinced that it is one of the most righteous things that, unfortunately, is not yet in force with us. The fact that we can even talk about the minimum wage and that we are all clear is also thanks to this government, which it has set at 562 euros. While we were then able to hear how huge the cost would be for the economy and how it would go, I don't know how many companies are going to go bankrupt because this cost would go up so insanely. It is of course interesting, however, that such a low salary as EUR 562 is taken at all than I do not know what a great cost is to be understood as a cost at all. Comrade Visjak is always on this very entrepreneurial line, I'll tell you who's only looking at it through this perspective. But if these are the benefits that the Secretary of State has explained that they are necessary for sustainability and justice, because I also understand justice in the light of what you yourselves expected through these virtual accounts, so that you know in short how much you have paid, and on this basis you can know how much you will get out. Things are a little different with us right now. You know how much you're gonna get out of here, because it's a marriage obligation. What you are going to pay is now set out in this article — at least you need to pay for it. If these low benefits and these low wages depend on the survival of the Slovenian economy, then God help us. If we are competitive because we have a minimum wage of 562 euros, then it is better to go to China; if this is a perspective. We want these salaries to be higher. Above all, I personally wish that these burdens, which go to the pension register, would not be considered a cost. This is probably also the investment of these employees in their safe age, which must ultimately have one positive calculation. That's what the secretary of state was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u191	Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u192	Look, the Secretary of State has confirmed that this solution places an additional burden on the economy. He says not immediately, with some transition period. It is more than obvious that there are some rumors and predictions of this government and some other acts. The Prime Minister's announcement, and everything else, is that it will have to be directed this year, or I don't know what year, in the second half of the mandate to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. So that we will systematically work to overcome the problems that stifle the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The fact is that the excessive burden of working in Slovenia is one of the most in the sky of absorbing cases that hinder the Slovenian economy in this competitive fight elsewhere. Not the amount of wages, Sir – do I not know how to refer to you – Rose, but the taxation of these salaries, the contributions of these salaries, that miserable net is certainly not a problem. The problem is the gross gross salary resulting from all living contributions. And we are now increasing these contributions; not through the contribution rate, but through the base. Please stop burdening the Slovenian economy and do what you say or say what you do. Not that you're saying anything, but you're doing the opposite in a diametric way. If it is not clear to you, respected in the Government and respected coalition Members, that this economy will die under your guidance, then I do not know who to make this clear to. Any additional burden on the economy is harmful, bad and unacceptable. You don't have to believe me. Go to the top of the Slovenian economy, go to the economic operators, they will tell you this, because probably in your 'fairies' where you have been working so far, no one has told you that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u193	Madam Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u194	I still have a few more sentences to say about this. Studies and calculations of the OECD clearly show that the problem of Slovenia's gross gross is not as much a contribution as the contribution of average or lower than average wages. As Mr Rožej said, the problem of higher-paid employees in the Republic of Slovenia is. If you think we will have the competitiveness of Slovenia by lowering the minimum wage so that we will not have a minimum wage in the amount of the increase in living costs and other things and in fact reduce the ability of people, then even at the end of their career they have contributions to get from the pension treasury what belongs to them, because this clearly establishes the financial sustainability of the system, and if you think this is our future, then there are different views of different governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u195	Yes, Mr. Mag. A visor. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u196	Dear Secretary of State, such manipulation is not worthy of your service. I was not talking about lowering any minimum wage, but I was talking about the inadmissibility of additional burdens by contributions, taxes or any current wages — what you are doing with this law. Don't get carried away, please! Why did you resort to additional burdens of already miserable minimum wages? Thus, workers will receive the same when the economy is more burdened. That's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u197	Mr. Vito Rozej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u198	As someone looks at the burden of the economy and the obligations it needs to be lifted to make it easier to move forward, we can also be sure of the release of the wage tax in the previous term, but we know where this mass of wages went. Far from going into any development to create some competitiveness of the Slovenian economy! It went into manager's purchases and similar private pockets. You yourself know who is the most committed to this, who is responsible for taking down such an economy and this economy is now where it is. It is difficult to expect social responsibility from him if, in this way, we have at least minimally ensured that there is little social responsibility, that is a good thing. However, as far as this logic is concerned, if we release the economy, then everything will be fine, you can see for yourself where from the previous mandate this practice, as I told you in the case of the abolition of the wage tax, has led: to the managers' redemptions and to private pockets, not to technological developments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u199	Can we move on? By amendment of the three coalition SD, Zares and LDS coalition groups to Article 156a. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Before I go to the amendment itself, allow me to speak very briefly for the first time today, to express my conviction that we are reforming the social state in order to preserve it in the long term. Pension reform is one of the three pillars of this social state. Therefore, to ensure its long-term capacity to preserve the social security of our people and fundamental social solidarity arising from the pension system. Even though this reform may be painful for our individual groups in cities, for individuals, it must be said that I think it is the right way to share the burdens of more difficult times so that we can all swallow this reform together more easily. Pension reform was most discussed from the point of view of pensioners. These, too, were the loudest in the entire multi-month debate on this pension reform. I think that it is primarily accepted as a young and active generation in order for these to be able to bear the future burdens of an increasingly ageing society and thus ensure the necessary social security of the elderly as a right from the past work. Many have warned in this process that the adoption of pension reform may further exacerbate the employment opportunities of young people. I think that the country must respond appropriately to the adverse developments in the market, especially for the first job seekers. Several times, the younger Members of the National Assembly point out that this is one of the biggest and most pressing structural problems of our society, because it is in the case of younger job seekers who have not been employed for a long time that we are actually creating extremely large structural damage and in the perspective we are reducing their employment opportunities. The amendment adopted by the opposition committee was welcome to try to implement the measure that this company needs. And this is that employers for persons under the age of 26 who are employed for the first time for an indefinite period may apply the refund of paid contributions to pension insurance. I think that this is one of those measures that the state needs in order to release and provide more opportunities for young people's jobs. Let me also point out that this can't and can't be enough. We need a comprehensive strategy for young people, perhaps not only by the age of 26, but also those who are still looking for their first job in years and many, unfortunately, failing. This strategy must focus primarily on the issue of their professional and employment opportunities, on the issue of jobs, and on the issue of their housing prospects. The amendment tabled under Article 156a of the bill seeks to operationalise the implementation of this measure to promote youth employment. I believe that the young Members will support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u201	Mr. Dejan Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Today it has been heard several times in this Chamber that this pension reform is bad for everyone that it brings nothing good and so on. The amendment to Article 156a proves exactly the opposite. Today, many arguments have already been made in other amendments that pension reform is being adopted just to change the existing system, which is bad. When the substance of the debate within the National Assembly was often the essence of the debate when we discussed the employment of young people, but in a way the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs had an immediate reaction to this in the first year of its mandate, when it had established a programme to co-finance the employment of graduates. Employers had the opportunity to make use of some of the resources and to hire students who were graduates and thus to get to know them with their first contact with the employer so that they can also maintain contact and obtain a job. This measure, that is, this amendment within the pension reform, is moving forward. It is said that the employer will be able to use a smaller contribution for any young person who will employ him for a minimum of two years for an indefinite period of time and will then be able to keep him in the workplace. The employer will be able to recover 50% of the contributions he should otherwise pay in the first year of his employment and 30% in the second year. This is the promotion of youth employment. And to say that this reform is against everything is unfortunately one of the great populisms, and these today have been quite something. Looking at the whole, what pension reform brings and what our decision is. We can decide to stay with the existing system, where young people will certainly not have a pension, even though they are paying contributions and, in some way, they are trying to invest in this intergenerational solidarity, which is unlikely to happen in the end. I wonder what it would be like to have someone come up with a proposal and say, look, pay us off our gross wages and we'll save our own pension. Then intergenerational solidarity in this society would be undermined. I warn all those who talk about protecting pensioners and those who are supposed to live with the lowest pensions today that this is not true. With the existing system, pensions are falling and all those who today are so-called pensioners and do not support pension reform support the reduction of pensions. Today, at 60% of the average wage, in the future, if we stay on this existing system, we will reach 50% of the average wage. This is bad for the pensioner, and to talk about that today pensions are small, too small, of course, is true, but this is not the situation of pension reform that we want to accept, this is the situation of the existing system. Many have retired early and have low pensions as a result. Of course, it must be taken care of and taken care of by this pension system. With this pension system, and studies show, pensions will increase; between 2% and 18% pensions will rise, mostly for those with the lowest pensions. And that's a step forward. But we can decide and continue with ordinary populism, bartering, blackmail — what is happening on the shoulders of this pension reform. Everyone wants something for a group. Then let's give it a different one; then let each group have something, force some of it out of the budget and take care of the others. Let's take care of everything. I think the Ministry of Labour has a clear goal in its head: to regulate pension reform in such a way that we will take care of all generations – for those pensioners who are already receiving a pension today and will stop losing their pension levels with this pension reform, but they will be able to have higher pensions, and to provide for the younger and active population who are paying for the pension, but it is not necessarily that they will have a pension after the current system at all. It is essential that this is not just a demographic picture, but also an extension of working time, and the key thing that has been achieved in this pension reform is gradualness. All the fear, the demagogies, what's going to happen to people who are just before retirement and who won't be able to do it, is superfluous. The procedure shall be applied at least until 2025 and shall be extended for a period of six months. Without fear, those who are very close to retirement will be the most likely at some point in time, but the extension of working time will not be so terrible, it will not be as devastating as it would be if the pension reform were to wait a little longer and then try to change it. And then it would be painful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u203	Mr. Cuckoo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the law has already basically provided for incentives for employers to keep workers as long as possible in a working relationship after they have fulfilled the conditions for retirement, we have proposed to the Committee on the Amendment, by which we stimulate employers to employ young people for an indefinite period of time, by paying contributions of 100% in the first year and 50% in the second year. We are pleased that this amendment was supported by the committee at the time, as this would not have been possible without the coalition's support, but we are not happy that the coalition is now halving this stimulus for the employment of young people. Indeed, we have a real problem with the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time. Firstly, we have passed a small work law, and we know what the effect will be from how the work will be enriched for a certain period of time. On the other hand, this pension law will block the retirement of college-educated students for 4 to 6 years, block, hitchhiker. Already, according to statistics, Slovenia is the percentage of employees for a certain period of time among the younger population up to 24 years of age in the last place in Europe, gentlemen. Last place in Europe! We have two thirds of us, 66.6% of us young people under the age of 24. Poland is the next worst ranked country. The worst! And now you're in the middle of this poor stimulation that we've proposed. We're sorry. Of course, we will not support the amendment, although we are glad that you supported our first amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u205	Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The amendment, which gives something concrete, progress ahead, is certainly worthy of support, despite the fact that it is possible that it has not fulfilled everything that some expect. The question is often heard in the public: older people will work longer, but young people are unemployed. I think this is the right answer, a concrete answer to this dilemma, that the employer is financially stimulated to employ young people by the age of 26 and that he will receive a refund for the first two years. This is definitely going in the right direction and will receive my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u207	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I agree with all the substantive references to the need for this Article. The solution adopted on the committee is, this must be fair, better than the one now proposed here. This amendment regulates the rationalisation and operationalisation of this measure. I must say that given the discussions I have heard in previous articles, which have been very generational and interesting, given who served the mandatory military term, who is not and so on, as far as this or that activity should be stimulated in one way or another, I must say that I am not quite sure that, but I will, of course, decide on the basis of the votes adopted, such an amendment will receive my support. I note that even among those who should follow more faithfully or more carefully the professional reasonings of the Ministry in the drafting of the law, it gives rise to the feeling that we are still in a supermarket where everyone could take a little bit for themselves or "for their own," if I say so in the footnotes, and unfortunately I will not be different. But I would like all of us to realize that every generation is losing something with it, getting something, and that things are not as simple as they may sometimes appear to us from a personal perspective. I would also say that even as far as the operationalisation of this measure is concerned, it is expected to stop at the age of twenty-six and only for the less than twenty-six years to stimulate their potential employers to hire them, of course, that we are not exactly going to hit the target as well. Perhaps we should not promise that all these jobs that we will thus achieve will, in fact, be for an indefinite period of time. It can be that life's habits will change. If it was once considered that boys went to the military after high school and then to study, then it was later considered to be going to study and then to join the army, if not anymore. So it can now come into force to go to work after high school for two years and then to college. By the age of twenty - six, it will be possible to work for about two years, since this will be possible, and then to study later. As it is said, my vote on this amendment will depend on the previous votes of colleagues and colleagues regarding other, similar, generation-like amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u209	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I support the amendment! The pension reform is not intended for itself, but is a reform that is supposed to touch all generations in some way and to ensure the sustainability of the long-term pension fund in the final objective. It must therefore be prepared to suit both those who retire in ten years and those who have received their first employment. The speculation of the Prime Minister that DeSUS will give up DeSUS in a certain segment because he needs it in the referendum is extremely unrealistic and irresponsible. If, in advance, the referendum is to be held and it will be decided by a people who know the matter even less than the experts who are preparing the reform, it is obvious that it is only the careful manipulation of citizens who, in the final phase, have entrusted the mandate of Members of the National Assembly. The proposed reforms certainly undermine people's standard of living. It would be expected now that the standard in Germany is improving and the economy is growing, that the economy will gather with us, as our exports are linked to these Western markets where the economy is booming. We can no longer say a very good time to the recession, but we will have to acknowledge the inability to save the country from the crisis of those who have accepted this responsibility. While pension reform is necessary and necessary to maintain pension funds that are fueled exclusively by paid contributions from all employees. So, there will be more employees, less problems in paying off and higher pensions, which are expected to rise in wages. Therefore, all policies must be built on employment, i.e. reducing unemployment, and intergenerational solidarity. The rhetoric of young people, that they do not know if they will ever see peace and that this is of little concern to them, is confusing, for the retirement threshold is those who care for them now, and they are only a little younger than we are. Economists are skeptical about reforms and point out that there is too little to look at results and that the summit itself is too focused on populism, which brings nothing good to citizens and that it is only political marketing that will not have a serious impact.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u211	Mr. Majhenič, I would like to remind you of Article 156.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u212	I'll tell you why. Why? Overexpenditure, inability to deal with economic constraints facing the Slovenian economy. The fall of GDP in last year by 8.1% should sober up the government facing reality, but the government is not aware of this. However, the intervention law interferes with the most vulnerable social groups, which mainly affect pensioners and recipients of social transfers and generally all those who are at a minimum for survival. Why did I mention that? Since the applicant is also building a pension reform on the failure to take measures, as proposed, there will be financial instability and a reduction in the scope of insurance rights, which will have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. There is too much talk and work to ensure only social peace, including social transfers, which are of course necessary and necessary, but measures must be taken urgently to reduce public spending and increase employment in the real sector. We must not only be comforted by merely retaining a few thousand jobs, but the goal must be to open up a new few thousand jobs, which will fill the pension allowance with paid taxes and contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Godec. Can I help you? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u214	Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that you took my word after two minutes and 40 seconds, I would expect that you would also have said to my fellow Member, Mr Mihenič, because he even said hurtful words which I did not. He was talking about bribery and this is insulting to me as a member of DeSUS, and he would almost require that he apologize on your proposal, not mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Godec. You're right. But there's a difference between you. You listened to me, Mr. Tiny. I'm not here. Anybody else want to discuss this? I conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to Article 213 and the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We are moving on to Article 232 and the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS. Nobody wants to talk anymore. We continue with Article 312, it says, but I must remind you, because the amendments tabled in Articles 312, 370 and 380 of the SD, Really and LDS Group are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 312, 370 and 380, as well as the amendments of SD, Zares and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We continue with Article 390 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. This is an article that discusses the protection of expected rights. We had a major problem with those who now qualify for retirement being treated differently after the adoption of this law, not to take the basis of 18 years into account, but from more. That's what I'm seeing, the coalition is repairing. I'm glad. However, there remains the problem of those to whom we have already warned, who have been granted an added time due to study. After the ZPIZ-1 this period is now ten months a year, in 2013 it will be a year. As this right has grown in ten years after one month a year, it is said, from 2000 to one month, so we propose to phase it out gradually. In order to protect these rights, it is gradually extinguishing exactly one month a year, nothing else. For once again I warn, it is a category that is truly affected, and thus cannot be dealt with with with the rights acquired and with the constitutional right to do so because it has already been given. I'm running out of time. There's a lot of black holes in this marriage. Unfortunately, I won't be able to warn them because I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that there are three amendments to Article 330, two amendments to the SDS Group of Members and one amendment to the SD, Zares and LDS. Does anyone else want to discuss these three amendments? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We continue with the 408th Article of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So it's an amendment or a matter that we've always opposed. It's a state pension problem. We have already talked about this in the law on social transfers in July of this year, and we have already objected to the fact that the state pension is being abolished not only for the future, but also for all recipients of the state pension. So also for certain acquired rights; what belongs to everyone, regardless of who it is and when it comes to. The rights acquired are a constitutional category; I believe that Article 155 of the Constitution refers to the rights acquired. That is why we think this category of abolition of the state pension, especially those already in force under the pension-disability law, is an anti-constitutional category. That is why we propose – there has already been an amendment on the committee to keep the state pension in the pension and disability insurance law number two, but we propose a compromise proposal to remain a state pension for all those who are beneficiaries of this state pension until this law comes into effect. However, given the mood in the Government and in the National Assembly, of course, we do not insist on continuing because it is not accepted that the state pension should remain for the new recipients as well. However, these new recipients should be treated or benefited by this law on social transfers. As it is said, we propose by this amendment that all those to whom a state pension is due in accordance with the ZPIZ-1 will also receive a state pension pending the expiry of this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Given that I am speaking for the first time today, I would first like to react to a very early debate with the thought of laughing. People say laughter is half healthy. Well, then it'll be a savings on the state budget so it doesn't pay for my treatment. That's it. In some debates, however, it is really necessary to ask whether a person should laugh or weep because there are some things that cannot be proved, despite repeated explanations. However, I would like to take this amendment because we are dealing with a topic that we have really discussed and explained very much on the committee. That the law on rights from public funds replaces a state pension in the sphere of social transfers for which the recipients are equal in the exercise of rights with all other recipients of social rights. From the standpoint of equality before the law, such a solution is good for the Social Democrats. Indeed, there were some suggestions about playing a little slalom between old and new rights. However, I am convinced that the arrangement under which a state pension is no longer considered a pension right is because we have adopted provisions on this or the principle that contributions are paid to the cash base of the pension assessment, that it is good that things are as consistent as possible. I advocate all those solutions in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which are close to two basic objectives, this is the sustainability of the pension fund and also the prevention of the fall in pensions. It seems to me that one of the ways is to complete the process. I must admit that with the amendments on the committee, there have been many kinds of amendments introduced to the law, which are likely to be welcome for a number of beneficiaries and departs, as it were said, from the basic concept. I will not support this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u221	Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u222	Thank you. Again, as in any article before, I would like to remind you of the starting points of this reform, which are certainly just. In short, the pension fund must be cleared for social transfers in order to make payments more dependent on payments and so on. It may already be true that, as has been said, the rights acquired are a constitutionally protected category, but it is also true that equality before the law applies. No one abolishes these state pensions, but the second law regulates their entitlement and their withdrawal. Indeed, some criteria may be set out differently in this law, as they are in the present, because under the new law all things are taken into account — that is, property, life with someone else, partner, spouse, and other things. But it's hard to say that these things are wrong, but they're more just. What could be solved or could not be resolved and what the climate is like in the government and what the climate is like in Parliament, does my colleague Presečnik, as he is also a member of this Parliament and co-creates this climate. The climate is, in short, the responsibility of all of us, one or the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u223	I conclude the debate on the amendment to this Article. Mr. President, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u224	Well, maybe I wasn't clear enough before. This amendment or beneficiaries of a state pension concerns those categories of beneficiaries who did not have the opportunity to be insured in any way during their active years. It's like an accent. While I agree with the principle that contributions are paid, I have a question here. Whether I can get a guarantee or an answer from anyone that no special laws or pensioners — that is, that they are entitled to a pension — have not paid contributions in their active years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u225	Anybody else want some? No, that's why I'm closing the debate. We continue with the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 410. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We turn to the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 417. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Let's move on to Article 428. We have already discussed the amendments to this article in conjunction, but the first amendment of the SD, Really and LDS groups remains. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 429 and the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. That's 7:50. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 34th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u226	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the 1st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u227	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will support this proposal for a decision. We believe that the law is more than appropriate and further consideration is needed. In fact, it prevents one of the deviations that occurred in the application of the Law on Economic Companies and allows for a hidden society of influential individuals, and thus a potential conflict of interest and damage to state property as well. To propose this law, it was crucial that the case of Mr Danil Toplek, long-standing director of Talum, who is in majority state ownership, was made public and is also a prominent member of the ruling political option, the SD party. This gentleman, in addition to being the Director of the State Enterprise, was also a silent shareholder of a silent shareholder of the company that was engaged in business for this state company. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u228	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u229	More than obvious, it is possible to get rich in this way; and not just that! In this way, corruption can be legalised, as Mr Toplek is the head of an economic society that gives business to another company that looks private, while the same person is found in silent society. We're trying to stop this. When, on the basis of the findings of this particular case, we called on the Government to ask all directors and supervisors of state-owned enterprises, whether the silent members of any silent company in the Republic of Slovenia or abroad, the Government replied that it was not competent to ask directors. To put it mildly, this is also proof that it is possible that this is even more than it has been on the day and as we think and we want to admit. That is why we want to prevent this deviant phenomenon. We want all contracts, all relations between members and society to be made public and subject to registration in the Court Register and to allow these contractual relations, but they must be made public, accessible to the public, to the parties and also entered in the Register of Justice. We believe that this is an important and necessary step in improving economic law and in preventing the enrichment of certain individuals at the expense of the authorities and also at the expense of ruling elites.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? Please, Mr Franz Puksič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u231	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's presentation of the opinion, we have made it clear that we will support the proposal for a law amending the law because it offers the possibility to eliminate one of the anomalies in our legislation, that directors – not only directors, of course, can be any officials in both public companies or in political places – through silent companies co-owners and then do not influence or are not present just as it is written in the law, in profit, but are also present in management and decision-making. On the other hand, Article 3 states that the silent company operator through Shop d.o.o. is obliged to invite a silent participant to meetings in the same manner as the associate and also to coordinate all possible transactions relating to the availability and performance of the company and to disengage and flag the business share in the company Construction Company Ptuj, d.o.o., which represents the bulk of the silent company’s capital. More. This Treaty states that if a silent company does not carry out this undertaking, all decisions taken outside this Article shall be null and void; and more than that, Article 9 of the same Treaty states that in the event of a breach of the confidence of a silent partner, a non-faithful member of a silent society shall be liable for the damage caused at the level of the actual damage. However, if this is not found, there are €40,000 in the lump sum. Therefore, it is clear from this Treaty that silent partners are also involved in the management of companies. In this case, which has been exposed and which is an exclusive case, the President of the Talum administration, which is 80 % owned by the state. Even more, he is even the President of the Supervisory Board of the second largest Slovenian bank and, in his performance, says the interview that he does everything in accordance with internal rules, acts and in accordance with Slovenian legislation. Once this has been revealed, it can be seen that it is not working and that is why it is one of the instruments to prevent it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. Please, just a minute. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Joseph Jerovšek. He's got that right. He answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I expected the Minister to inform us today that she has initiated all procedures for the discharge of the Director of State of Talum, Mr Toplek. Because he was caught with his hands in a bag. One of his silent societies was exposed. He's a silent associate of a silent accomplice. I am sure, and according to my information from Kidričev, he is a silent associate with many companies and co-owner of the Bank Factor, Mercury and so on. However, the minister advocated such conduct. Members of his party also defended him because he had run for office in the SD State Elections. Today's vote will show whether there is a bit of a willingness to eliminate these irregularities, to start treating this robbed Slovenian society, which is custodial under such a tycoon, and to start treating it all. These are illegal practices, illicit wealth, illegal exploitation of workers, not allowed looting of property – and yet supporting such looting! To that part, I will tell the corrupt part of the government coalition – whether they are officials or anyone – and supervisors in such societies who look away and help cover up the harmful behavior I say to Zolai: "I accuse!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Although this was an explanation for the voice and not an accusation, but anyhow. Yes, the explanation for Dar's voice, Lovtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am going to object to this bill myself because I believe that because of one particular case in business practice, it is not possible to engage [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u236	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u237	changes, reckless changes to the law as a whole as regards the status of silent companies. [[...]] For explanation I will borrow the position of Dr. Saša Prelic, professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, who says: "The situation which is supposed to prevent the abolition of silent societies will continue to exist, only within other, in particular the bonds of legal institutions. They will therefore no longer be subject to corporate law nor will they be subject to the restrictions imposed by corporate law as cogent law in order to ensure the protection of creditors and shareholders." I will therefore vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Yeah, please, I can see there's more to it, so I'm asking you to sign in. I'm opening the application – please don't, I'm just opening it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Anton Kampush. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u239	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In this case, control was carried out, in this case an audit was carried out, no irregularities were found, let alone crimes. So building an amendment to the LAG on such assumptions – and within the LAG on silent society – is unacceptable, unwise and shortsighted, without any valid arguments. The silent society has a 100-year tradition in the European Union, and it would be acceptable for those proposing this change to carry out basic statistical research on what is going on in most of the European Union – so where is this money coming from silent societies? In Slovenia, this money is mainly for innovators in Slovenian society. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u240	Peace in the hall, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u241	Those of you who don't know things can laugh at this, and others, of course, don't. [[...]] So, especially innovators are those who do not make any money in Slovenia because they are usually without financial resources and are looking for various financial incentives or are looking for incentives mainly from friends, family members and so on. In Slovenia, therefore, it is mainly intended in this sense for those who are in some way the future of our economy. So much for your knowledge. Of course, it would be unwise to support this proposal, especially today, when there are times of crisis and there should also be some modernisation and thus new developments in our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u243	If it were true that we would respect the legislation in force, and if what had been found by the Supervisory Committee on this matter had been true, it was only when it was published that Mr Toplek was a silent participant of a silent partner – I had read the articles in the mutual agreement on the regulation of relations in this silent society in advance on behalf of the Group of Members, and I am sure that no cent had gone from this to development. Not a cent! But that they went into their private pockets for millions, and I'm sure they did, because that comes out of the contract and from the lawsuit. To say that they are owners or that the Governing Council has found that everything is okay, etc. – I ask today and I also know how things were going: only when they were revealed. Never before did Mr Danilo Toplek tell the supervisors, the supervisory board, that he owns a silent company of a silent associate that operates construction companies in the company where the director is. He never said that. Of course, I wonder how many societies there are silent associates. Perhaps also in North Hydro, Sweden, through which he drove aluminum to Impol, Slovensko Bistrica, where the country also owns 40%. In short, the question arises whether Mercury is also a silent partner because in 1995 and 2007 it redirected all purchases from other suppliers [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! All in a row, I ask you to stick to the form of explanations of voice and not to argue, not to reveal, but above all not to attack people who can no longer defend themselves here and are not at all in the hall. Please adhere to some fundamental rule of democratic dialogue and controversy. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we always find some excuse, some alibi, that some of the things they've proposed isn't good enough, that it's non-systematic, that there's some kind of doctor of science who can find some sort of thing that makes it impossible to support. I believe that the fog that has been made over the Slovenian economy must be helped to decompose itself as soon as possible. This is not just the Talum, it is, of course, the most exclusive example of these silent associates. I believe there are many such silent partners in Slovenia. I think we should clear this up. Why do we need silent associates? What's this about? Who's hiding behind these silent associates? Why would it not be transparent in this country to know who owns someone? To know who owns our media houses, etc. Why is it so hidden and we can't all be here in this country knowing who actually runs these companies? There's no need for politicians to protect me from anyone inside. It would have been easier for us too, and I am sure it would have been much better in this country if this little anomaly had been resolved. In any case, I will support this law because I think it is going in the right direction and it is going in the right direction, but let us also make one difference in the Slovenian economy between that fair economy, that which works for the good of this country, and that of that economy which is involved in some kind of tampering in the background, under the table, in the networks, etc. etc. This has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the debate, a colleague of Dr. Luke Juri described the introduction of this law as a gesture by someone who has changed his mind to honey, and that makes him sick now, and I would like to ban even beekeeping. The proponents themselves explained that, on the basis of one case, they now want to regulate these things as they propose. Well, that's not the only case. And control in this case is under the current legislation, which has been in force for a long time and could also be changed during your term of office if you wanted to, show something. Remember a few months ago, we had the case of a road construction company. His partial owner was the director of the Perspective, a good acquaintance of the former economic, former former economic minister. In the previous term, it was seen several times in the corridors of the Ministry of Economy en route to the minister's office. He dealt with Slovenian electricity, the decommissioning fund and what else could be found. After the investigation revealed — and according to the information that came from Liechtenstein — that he was the silent owner that did not bother you. He never bothered you. You did business with him. Now I do not know whether, in addition to the silent owner in Liechtenstein, this company had any other silent owner who is now disappointed because this other silent owner "provided" him – or what could be the reason why silent societies can be a good thing in one term and in the other term they are not a good thing. And with beekeeping, of course, it's like this: bees are like this and different, you have these and those kinds. You have offensive African bees that don't bring honey and work well, but you also have, say, decent cranium bees that collect between. Now we're going to ban beekeeping because of these African bees, or whether we're going to ask the expert what to do, as the ministry said it would tighten control, and, in short, these things will be solved as they already are. Who's the one who's deviant? Who's the one who's robbing society? Who's the one who needs to be treated? Who's the one who doesn't have morals? Who's the one who's cheating? I don't think this marriage is really about what it wants to be. But I believe more to the Ministry that amendments to existing legislation will regulate such things so that such Liechtensteins will no longer happen to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Matthew Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u249	By my vote against the adoption of this law, I do not want to cover any delicacies, swine or whatever you wish to categorize them. By my vote against the adoption of this law, I would like to oppose the unconceived amendment of the law which creates on the political side the idea that it is possible to remedy injustices in the Slovenian economy and even more conflicts of interest and abuse of the situation. We will not do that by deleting a silent society in the Economic Companies Act. Today, the institutions of this rule of law have every possibility and legal basis to respond to any abuse. I wish, especially in cases where the object and purpose of the accusation is a member of the same party as I do, that these institutions be activated as soon as possible. First, the supervisory authorities of the companies which are there on behalf of the owners. By the way, the majority owner of Talum is Eles Slovenije. The Republic of Slovenia will only be the owner of the company Eles Slovenije. That, therefore, the corporate authorities which are able to impose liability under the Company Act against the business person have made their own decision, and last but not least, the Penal Code in the event of an abuse of the position of the business person. These are options. I propose that we trust in this rule of law and expect the institutions of the rule of law to carry out their domestic task for which they are paid. In the meantime, it is up to us, in the National Assembly, to adopt legislation responsibly and with reckless moves does not make the situation of some, especially creditors, worse. I think that we have made clear in the debate today that these unthinkable moves contribute to the potential deterioration of the position of creditors of such companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. I really have a great temptation to vote in favour of the proposed law and thus contribute to the elimination of the certainly untransparent operation of silent societies. I think it's a big anomaly that needs to be removed. Today we would also have an opportunity, but I also believe the Ministry of the Economy's assurances that it is better to write a law and not so amateurally just delete something, which is what the same motioner of this law wrote in the previous term. We are faced with contradictions with some inconsistencies that do not act convincingly. I welcome the purpose, and I think this is the right way to address these issues in a systematic way, so I will not give in to temptation in full, but only in part, and this time I will abstain. My abstention, however, wishes to be a warning to the Government and the Ministry of the Economy that this needs to be addressed immediately and that the untransparent operation of silent societies or other forms where speculation is possible and where there are actually contradictions that do not offer any reputation either to the Government or to Parliament or to our economy. This time I will press the quorum, and I expect the government to react immediately and to present it immediately and to offer the National Assembly a better law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this law. The mere disclosure of the Toplek case points to recklessness, the arrogance of some individuals who are in the lead of the Slovenian economy, and above all to the great squabble of legislation. That is why something needs to be done in this area. Playing legislation in Slovenia is huge and worrying. It is also a worrying deficit in the rule of law calling for change. The change that we can make today is quite simple: quiet companies would have to withdraw from this legislation at least temporarily, because obviously in Slovenia the economic and social environment is not mature enough to have such an institution. The Institute of Public and Public Affairs is essential in this area. There is a need for greater transparency and transparency, and we must avoid conflicts of interest. The example of Toplek is only the tip of the iceberg, beneath this summit are many more, perhaps even larger cases such as this. Of course, we do not know what dimensions in Slovenia in these cases. And this law doctrine kind of legalizes all of this, and that's bad. I know that this initiative of ours will not be adopted, which has already proved to be so far, because you have reached media silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I reopen applications for explanations of vote on my behalf. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u255	I'm saying I'm going to support this marriage right now. I am convinced that in this House of Democracy in the future we will have to adopt certain decisions, decisions, amend certain laws, which seemed unnecessary some time ago, impossible or something that is not in line with the standards in force in society, in some open market economy where capital and the free market have all-powerful leverage in their hands. We regret, however, that, with the general reference to the rule of law, we see that this country is in this area in great dispersion, and I firmly believe that a lot will have to be changed. We have already had one opportunity to talk in the National Assembly about a declaration in which we had to decide whether we would support the European declaration on organised crime, international terrorism and drug trafficking, and we have renounced or expressed reservations in that part of the evidence, saying, about the reverse evidence for the implementation of this instrument. Now we see that we will probably have to talk about it. In this proposal, too, we can really ask ourselves who is protecting whom, as is the case with those proposals that speak of reverse evidence. That is why I think that there is also an increasing incidence of arrogantness in society, the swelling of the legal system, the visible people present in the political space, in the economic space, can come to the court, to the National Assembly before the commission of inquiry or anywhere else and express their superiority. Therefore, dear colleagues, today you have the opportunity to confirm this law and take the first smaller step; a step in the direction in which we will have to take many more steps in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Luke Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support a simple marriage because it's like if someone ate honey, then here in the National Assembly we would suggest that we end beekeeping.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in my name, Mr Jerovšek, please give peace so that I can instruct your colleague in some peace and quiet. [[...]] Please calm down! Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr. President, for your peace and quiet. Look, of course, I will vote in favour of this law because of a simple problem with understanding the concept of honesty, as seen today on the side of the ruling coalition. Indeed, opposition to this law was based on the idea of "people entering silent societies with fair intentions", this is a quote. Let me work out this thesis a little bit; they enter a quiet society with fair intentions to hide their property from the public, enter silent companies with fair intentions to hide what they have from tax administration, enter silent companies with fair intentions to hide it from their loved ones. In short, it is the honest intentions of the ruling coalition. Because this claim, this thesis, was developed by the minister of the party whose president has honestly transferred his share abroad to a "castelc" company and has honestly denied it to the Slovenian public. This convinces me that it is not a coincidence, but a deliberate policy, and this really convinces me that the only reform we need is not a substitute for the government, which is what the entire coalition is now quietly dealing with, but a replacement of the entire coalition, that is, the actual policy in this country. And that's why I'm going for it!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u260	As I say, thank you for an honest explanation. Explanation of the voice of Guido Kres in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once these silent societies were also established for honest purposes, but there were also tax havens in the world and we can draw a little bit of a relationship: a quiet society, a tax haven, and we know that today the whole world is fighting against tax havens. Why? Because there's not exactly the fairest of intentions going on there. I don't think they'd do me any harm if we supported this law, because Slovenian companies and Slovenian entrepreneurship and Slovenian entrepreneurs, as it turns out, have not matured or matured for the form of society we had or are still in legislation, or are significantly more frigid than anywhere else. The best thing to do is to get these silent associates out of those holes they've been hiding in somehow. I'm here to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I will support this law myself, and I am even more convinced by one of the speakers that money or capital comes from silent societies to innovators. I agree with the innovators, and this to the financial innovators that we obviously have in Slovenia. A number of Mercury's financial innovators are currently being investigated by the police. I think that such innovators would also be discovered in the event that, in accordance with this law, silent partners should also be exposed. This law is a step towards preventing these anomalies from robbing our economy, at least in part, from making it transparent. Nor do those explanations suggest that the abolition of a silent society would undermine any possibility of participation of those wishing to participate in capitalism. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u264	Beg for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u265	This law makes it clear that it can otherwise be co-operated in the same way as capital by taking this into account in the Register of Justice and making it accessible to the public. If that were really the intention, this would be supported by the coalition. However, since we also have a Member or Members associated with Mr Toplek in the SD coalition party, it is here a business interest to try this law to prevent such anomalies in the future, even at the very beginning it is rejected. If this law were to be adopted and supplemented with some minor additions in further proceedings, there would be an excellent starting point for us to really avoid the robbery that we can see very often in the Slovenian economy today, which is why this law of course makes sense to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u266	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 41. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We're moving on to Article 16. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 16. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 27. We decide on the first amendment of the SD, Zares and LDS to Article 27. An explanation of the voice in your own name? In my own name. Are there explanations on behalf of the groups of Members? So? They're not. In your own name, Andrej Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. The dictated article, which is now being amended, has been tabled by four Members and has also been adopted on the Committee by the help or by a coalition error. Then, in the meantime, they discovered a matter that otherwise had a point so that the position of the insurers could even deteriorate. That is the case, but this amendment to the second point of Article is actually changing the whole concept of Article 27, so I will not support this amendment. I believe that this article is crucial to the whole reform and, in my opinion, to my support for the law, but later on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I will abstain from this vote because there has not been a change to the harmonisation amendment that would correct that error with regard to women's rights. I cannot support this amendment, but I will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Andrei Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I will support the proposed amendment. For the first time, because it eliminates the awkwardness that has been committed by adopting the amendment at the committee meeting. In short, to radically exacerbate the situation of women under 20 years of age, this amendment introduces a gradual exercise of their right to obtain a retirement pension. On the other hand, I will support this amendment because it is inconsistent with the remainder of Article 27, which speaks of the right to a retirement pension at 65 years of age, the right that is being exercised gradually with the six-month extension of this transitional period, because this is the basis of the pension reform that we are adopting. It's about like a triangle. If we move one leg to the tripod, we'll be sitting very badly. In short, it is a key element of this reform, a reform that is consistent with what they are doing in Europe, or we should choose whether to make pensions worse or to burden the active population more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u273	I cannot support the proposed amendment because it would remove content that would make things worse not only for women but for women and for men. At that time, when we tabled this content, we knew, and also now there is an opportunity for the harmonisation amendments and also for the adoption of an amendment that could then be adopted also what was meant by this proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 36. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on. We vote on the second amendment to Article 27. The amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 28. We are voting on the first amendment of Article 28 of the SLS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 40. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 28. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 36. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 30. We are voting on the first amendment tabled by the SDS Group on Article 30, and I would point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under Article 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We therefore vote on the second amendment to this Article of SD, Zares and LDS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to Article 40 and the amendment and the vote on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 36, for 43. [[It was 36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 108. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group, and I remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of Article 428 of the Democratic Party's Group to Article 428, and if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to Article 428 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members, 37 to 43. [[For the vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 134 and decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 134. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members, 43 to 41. [[The vote was 43.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 136 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 136. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 36, for 41. [[It was 36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 140 and vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 140. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 35, for 43. [[35 votes in favour]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are therefore voting on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 140. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. Before that, I tried to explain and convince my colleagues and colleagues to accept this amendment or the previous one. Now you obviously have not decided on the previous one, from your colleagues in the SDS Group. It is a matter of establishing an information system that would allow every insured person to obtain actual information about the situation of payments — what is always the problem — and the conditions that he meets or does not meet for retirement. It's about introducing this system that I believe is not easy. So in today's information society, we would expect this information system to be established. In paragraph 9, however, somehow the law obliges the Ministry or the Minister to prescribe a way of accessing the home records and informational calculations. This is the way in which the Minister prescribes this method by means of an appropriate regulation. In the parliamentary group, we will be making an amendment to ensure that some data that is extremely important for each individual actually comes, but not to come with some other requirements, etc., which can otherwise be obtained through some long-term and complicated procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 41. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to 147th Article and we are voting on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to 147th Article. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 156.a. and vote on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to 156.a. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Is there a need to make a statement on behalf of the members of the groups? [[No, no, ……]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u277	Thank you very much. This is an amendment with which we rationalise and operationalise the solution adopted on the parental committee, which foresees that the first job will be subsidised to young people. The initial solution was 100 % of the share that the employer should pay for the first year was 50%. The amendment, as it is prepared, reduces this limit to 26 years. Up to that point, young people are also under European conventions and these contributions are limited to 50% in the first year and 30% in the second year. This is one of the few amendments that came in between 400 and more articles during the adoption of this law, which is really written on the skin of the young generation. I regret that all generations, especially in Article 27, have taken what seems to them to be theirs. I'm sorry the younger generation has to be wiser than the older generation, than them. Because from this title, I think that in later intergenerational arrangements, all older generations from younger generations will find it difficult to expect what they expect now. And if wisdom is not expected from the elderly, it is even more difficult to expect from the young, though. I can't find a better solution to this – so to speak – a subsidy for youth employment, nor can I improve this in the third reading because it would be rejected here. Although I would like to reject this solution, which reduces the rights that have been given to the parental committee, I will not do so. I'm going to brush my teeth and support something that I believe is not best for a generation that is mine, but it's best for everyone. I hope that all of you will follow such an example in future amendments, and when will you press for an amendment that may not be good for your generation or may not seem good for you, but is good for all generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-02-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 26. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 213 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 213. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 232 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 232. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 312 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 312. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 370 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 370. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 380 and we are deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 380. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and 46 voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 390, where we first decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. If this is accepted, the amendment under number 2 will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment to Article 390 tabled by SD, Reale and LDS. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the third amendment to Article 390 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 408, and we are deciding on the amendment of the SLS Group to this Article. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 40. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 410 and decide on the amendment of SD, Zares and LDS to Article 410. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 417 and decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 417. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 34. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 428 and we are deciding on the first amendment to this Article tabled by the SD, Zares and LDS Members. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the second amendment to Article 428 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 41. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 429 and decide on the amendment of the SD, Zares and LDS to Article 429. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We have concluded by deciding on the amendments, and I am also concluding the second bill of consideration. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. Since the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has not yet addressed the demands of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide once again on the Law amending or supplementing the Law on Land Book, the National Assembly cannot begin its consideration of item 3 of the agenda, so I am terminating the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly and you will be informed of the follow-up to the extraordinary meeting in due time. Thank you so much and good night.
