ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision of the National Assembly on the state of justice, the political impact on it and measures to regulate the situation. I inform you that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Marian Križman and Milenko Ziherl from 12 noon onwards. We continue with the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word is Guido Kres. [[He's not here.]] The word is Brada Pecan. [[She's not here.]] The word is "Miran Potch." Let's get Willy Trophynic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we celebrate the 20th anniversary of plebiscite about independent and independent Slovenia. We all remember this truly remarkable event for all of us, for Slovenians and Slovenians, as well as other citizens of Slovenia, so you, colleagues and colleagues, as well as all those who accompany this meeting, have sincere congratulations on this holiday! But that's not my only purpose. I would like to point out that we have achieved such an important result and success achieved by Slovenia on the plebiscite because of the great unity we have been cultivating at the time. I would like to remind you that today it is often forgotten that all the parties working in Parliament at that time signed a special agreement with which they committed themselves to working together for plebiscite. And something else they committed to – that no results of plebiscite would be attributed to themselves as the only merit, but that they would be credited for the combined result of the work of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. I think that yesterday's debate, I hope not today, shows how important it would be to recall this fact. In order to know that one of the objectives was also the rule of law, but that the rule of law was not achieved by accusing each other, but by joint action to achieve the rule of law. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, with the request you have made, have in particular pointed out the things that we have already discussed in the National Assembly, which are different from what you yourself have mentioned, and in particular the things that cannot contribute in any way to the fact that justice, as an important third branch of the government, will gain the reputation and trust of citizens and citizens, because without this there will be no one of the important objectives that we set ourselves on the plebiscite 20 years ago. I therefore call for greater joint cooperation, not the constant new accusations that we are hearing from the opposition, even when they are not justified and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Willie Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Darja Lavtijar Bebler. [[She's not here.]] Vito Rojej. [[No, no, ……]] Willie Rezman. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. [[He doesn't want to.]] Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. But I will, even if no one else does. [[...]] When I read the request to convene this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was supposed to deal with the state of justice, the political impact on it and the measures to regulate the situation, I got the impression and feeling – because I quantitatively set myself down in the very explanation of the proposal – that the applicants have a completely different purpose than because it was written in the forecast. It is some kind of informal mini-interpellation against Minister Zalar and, on the other hand, to protect the Attorney General. Two illustrations of this finding confirm when I broke through the material. The first illustration is that the name and the name of the judicial name are mentioned 32 times in the entire material. And secondly, that the extensive chapter, which speaks of the political pressures of the Ministry and the policy of the prosecution organization, begins with the following rhetoric, I quote, "the debate of the coalition MPs of the Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Darje Lavtijar Bebler, Majde Potrata, and then the coalition MP Andrej Magajne went on to openly attack the Attorney General," and then on 22 sides this attack is justified. The entire material, however, consists of 53 pages. This is a carefully selected clip with summaries to prove the political pressure of the Ministry, politics, MPs, members of the prosecution and the prosecution. Piko also put on the table in his opening remarks when he said: "Great political pressure on justice, and in particular on the prosecution." I don't think any comment is necessary here. And there's something else about judges when you talk in chapter 1.7 about the passing of judges between lawyers. In my previous mandate, I have asked the previous Justice Minister a question about the transition of the President of the District Court in Cyprus from lawyers to a lawyer's office of one of the most insidious maritime lawyers. The reply of the then minister was: "This is nothing unusual. That's perfectly normal. You're trying to politicize these things, so you asked me this question." Last time I listened to one of the committees on the hiring of judges, there was an enormous increase in the number of judges. Here you have the material, which has been added, from the Ministry of Justice, that it is in the previous term, despite the fact that I agree that the Lukenda project has been rescinded and 274 judicial posts have been rescinded. And if you look at the current term of office for two years, the difference is 53 in reducing that because it was. And in 2009 those judges were appointed to the courts for whom the call was already in 2008. Here I am responding to those criticisms, because at the time I was not aware of these data, which were very politicised on the Mandate-Election Commission a month ago and had a lot to say about this enormous number of judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. When it is just a speech on the supervision of the prosecution, which the applicants define as interference and political pressure in an extraordinary session, I would just like to remind you of what kind of control it actually was. It was legal supervision that the Ministry of Justice could exercise on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. In particular, I would like to point out that it was not a matter of control over the decision taken by the individual prosecutor in a particular case, because the Ministry does not, of course, have such authority. However, it was a matter of overseeing the following institutes, namely how prosecutors identify the files — as important — how prosecutors operate in the event that a prosecutor proposes his or her determination, how they assign and allocate cases to prosecutors, how the co-signature of the Prosecutor's Office is executed on the prosecution's decision or how the prosecution's case is taken away, how the so-called evocation and second-handling are given, how mandatory guidance or instructions are given to the prosecutor's decision, how the so-called prosecutor's log is kept, where the data on the conduct of the proceedings is recorded, how the proper enforcement of all the above-mentioned cases is exercised. In short, it's the typical content of the state prosecutor's office. The State Prosecutor's Office, however, is responsible for the tasks of the Heads of the Prosecutor's Office alone, including the heads of departments within the Prosecutor's Office. This control was therefore strictly limited to these institutes. And what were the findings of this control? It was found that the prosecution’s business, the case of the Ljubljana Prosecutor’s Office, was inadequate, in the event that the Prosecutor proposed his dismissal, was inappropriate in assigning and prejudicing cases to prosecutors at work and that it was inappropriate in the application of the Institute of Signature and Evocation. As this was later attempted as a political interference of the executive branch in the functioning of the prosecution, this case, the whole report, was also addressed by the home committee, the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice. This Committee adopted the following conclusions on 12 May 2010. First, under the first decision, he took note of the procedures for carrying out that control and, secondly, took note of the findings of that control and also of the reasons for the resignation of the Head of the specialised department in the group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime in the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. Under the third point, the Committee proposed to the Government to provide the National Assembly with a solution that would allow and ensure proper respect for prosecutors in their decision-making while ensuring the successful, independent and independent functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office as an organisation. On the basis of this decision, the Government has therefore acceded to the drafting of the State Prosecutor's Office Act. This law is in the final stage of preparation and coordination. We still have a working meeting with the Attorney General and her co-workers to review the completed text. It is important that this law also prescribes, inter alia, a new coordinating role for the Public Prosecutor's Office when it comes to the implementation of the seizure measure or the seizure of illegally acquired property. The Public Prosecutor's Office will therefore be the one to assume certain coordination functions, which is very important, especially in view of the fact that these measures will in practice be truly effective and will achieve their purpose. Therefore, at the Ministry of Justice, we expect that this final consultation of the State Prosecutor's Office could be carried out immediately at the beginning of next year and on this basis all the conditions for initiating the legislative procedure will be laid down. This is an extremely important law, which will in particular stress the responsibility of the prosecution leaders for the results, to the success of the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes. Just as we have reformed the functioning of the courts, where the Presidents of the Courts have been given important powers and responsibilities for the results of the courts, this will now be the first time in history that the prosecutions have been charged with, and we will also establish a very sharp provision in the prosecutions' case, which says that if the results of the work planned by the Prosecutor's Office are not achieved, the Prosecutor's Office will be resolved. In short, we strengthen on the one hand the powers that prosecutors have and, on the other hand, we strengthen the responsibility, in particular the leading judicial officials, for productivity and the quality of the decisions they make. In fact, this is about efforts to improve the rule of law, not about having only one because we have it, but about a better state of law, and this is what the Government and the Ministry of Justice are doing all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u7	Would you like to speak to the proposer? Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u8	Your Honor! All very nice greetings and sincere congratulations at the great holiday, the 20th anniversary of the Slovenian plebiscite, on behalf of the entire SDS Group, on behalf of the applicants of today's meeting! Unfortunately, I must say that I am celebrating this holiday with sadness in my heart because the mirror that was set up for us in foreign professional magazines showed that Slovenia is not what it could be, is not what we all wanted, is not what we sincerely created 20 years ago and later. Slovenia believes that the Economist is no longer a fully democratic country, but is a country with a distorted democracy. One of the key reasons for this is that the rule of law in Slovenia does not work as well as it should, so that justice does not work as it would have expected in a normal democratic country and should work in accordance with European acts. So that the whole crow simply doesn't understand the hungry, we were able to convince ourselves yesterday in quite a few debates. But also some others, who, of course, are well-paid by taxpayers' money, simply could not understand the hardships of people who do not find themselves as small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in court and then are victims of extortion, payment non-discipline and will not believe, at this great holiday they are not dealing with any other than thinking about moving their activities to neighbouring Austria because there the rule of law is working because they know that they will receive a fair payment for their fair work there. It's a development disaster! Therefore, the debate on the state of justice is also an important debate on the fundamental development issues of our country of Slovenia. And once again, it is sad that we have to deal with this 20 years after this big event, which Slovenia was represented by Slovenian plebiscite. The debate, which has now taken place for two days, has shed light on some new facts. No one until yesterday practically knew that the other of the only two convicted of relatively large crime in the field of economy and corruption had been released. Both Mr Danilo Kovacic of Hit and now Mr Boris Šuštar, former Secretary of State, is literally trapped with his hands in a bag, as we can see in the media, in a very serious corrupt act, they are now at large. One was released by the President of the State, the other by the Commission of the Ministry of Justice. What signal does this country, the rule of law, give to all citizens and citizens at the age of 20 plebiscite, if you want? That someone who has committed a small crime, if you want to steal a thousand euros, will surely punish him severely, will lock him up, alienate him from his family. However, in most cases, that major economic crime will be without epilogue at all in court, if it comes to it, there is a huge likelihood that no one will be convicted. If it does not work out otherwise, the judge will work hard after the verdict, and for six months he will write an explanation for that judgment, so that no one will be imprisoned and everything will be completely obsolete. However, if in only two poor cases there is a final conviction, the key people in this country, in the politics of this country, will try to get people convicted of economic crime to freedom. That's the signal you give to young people. It's an example guide. But this example, ladies and gentlemen, leads us somewhere where none of us today or 20 years ago certainly didn't want to be. Because it leads us to a system that is not democratic, which is ineffective, where everyone is free to hunt against everyone, this is a state that has nothing to do with the rule of law anymore. And then don't twist your arms and wonder why The Economist said that Slovenia is no longer a country with a full-fledged democracy. That this is still a pressing problem, is also the letter addressed to the Minister of Justice by a representative of the creditors from Kopra, in which he wrote a sentence that is so important in my opinion that we must all listen to him: "Who cares that delaying justice leads to a state of legal uncertainty, which is contrary to the rule of law?" He thus drew attention to the key problem of our justice – if justice is to come, it is towed long, too long, and justice, if reached in a disproportionately long period, is simply no longer a right. This is not just our knowledge, it is also a teaching of constitutional law. This is also recalled by the European institutions. And it is sad that Slovenia has been exposed again 20 years after plebiscite to the increase in the number of penalties imposed by trials that take place in unreasonable lengths and which lead individuals to find satisfaction in the institutions of the European Union. We now have this advantage that we are members of the European Union, NATO liaisons, and the international community in a way that is equal to what we fought 20 years ago. It is time to also establish a legal state at home, a full-fledged legal state in which justice will actually be available within a reasonable period of time, where there will be no payment non-discipline as an integral part of the system, even when it comes to public undertakings sometimes, which is particularly sad, and where it is clear that when effective, rules and acts of the European Union are established, this fundamental development issue for the whole of Slovenia is in line with the rules and acts of the European Union. It would be good, but unfortunately we did not see that coming if all the questions were answered. One question, which, in my opinion, is something very characteristic of the policy of the current authority, I have asked several times, and I have not received an answer to it. I asked the minister whether he was aware that the brother of a minister would be involved in the Bulmastif affair, there, according to the entire legal profession, had made the least grave professional error, some even claimed that it was an abuse of position, and that it should actually be for criminal responsibility, one or the other, or a grave professional error or worse. This man was rewarded by this current government with a very well-paid and important function somewhere in the European Union system. What kind of reward system is that?Oh, my God! For grave professional faults or worse? What a signal this young generation receives: Swindle and then all the doors are open to you! Be unprofessional and then you can have a high, well-paid career in the institutions of the European Union! Are these the messages you give with your guidance an example for young generations?Oh, my God! This certainly has nothing to do with the rule of law, but it has much to do with, in my firm belief, certain acts of the European Union that speak of corruption, nepotism and everything else, which certainly does not belong to the European Union or to any democratic country in this world that has anything to do with us and that has a functioning justice system as it is for democracy. Many harsh expressions also fell. Due to parliamentary supervision, it has been said that it is a witch hunt. Parliamentary oversight is necessary, important and has highlighted some new facts. For example, Mr. Shuštar is at large. The general public didn't know that until yesterday. That's supposed to be a good thing to do. This also comes from the Slovenian Constitution, and those who question this are asking the Slovenian Constitution. And it was very inappropriate for the Minister to suggest that there was also a possibility, I quote: "wasting money for referendums". The referendum is a constitutional institution, ladies and gentlemen, which has a direct basis in several articles of the Slovenian Constitution. Even the Slovenian Constitution puts it first, as a direct exercise of the authority of the people and puts it before other forms, when the power is exercised indirectly according to the principle of the division of power into the remaining three branches. Modern constitutional science refers to the referendum as a special form of power limitation, even the only effective form of power limitation in the parliamentary system with a proportional electoral system and is therefore an institution of special democratic importance. And if the Justice Minister has a negative, negative attitude towards the Constitutional Institute – and the Constitution obliges everyone, especially the Minister – then it certainly does not bear witness to his democracy, and even less to the functioning rule of law. We have not even managed to reach some things, we could also talk about how justice works in practice, for example how it manages real estate. You own property owned by the Ministry for two years on the Airway and are not used or leased. This is what we pay taxpayers, but it is far less important, in our opinion, than the situation in the field of justice, which is not good, where even the minister in the introductory words seems fine to have decided within a few years to come across all the cases. This has nothing to do with European criteria, ladies and gentlemen. This is why Europe has criticised us, and we have to put us at our threshold here. This is not the last time [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Thank you. Your colleagues can't hear you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I see it's an interest in the debate, so I'm asking you to apply. Minister Aleš Zalar also spoke, he will get the word in the end, and he must answer the questions as well. Each of the debaters and debaters shall have 5 minutes. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. And thank you also for giving us the opportunity to share our views and views on today's item on the agenda, which shows that the biggest opposition party has a strong focus on the areas that belong to its sphere of interest. When assessing the situation in the field of justice, it mixes concepts that fall within the broader concept of justice with concepts that fall within the narrow concept of justice. That it has decided to request an extraordinary meeting and to place this item on the agenda, it would appear that, in the course of its behaviour that the intervention against the Minister of Justice would not achieve the objective actually pursued by that party, that is to interpret the entire judiciary. So, this session and this item on the agenda is, according to my impression, which I received yesterday when I listened carefully to the debate, given the careful reading of the material attached to this point, that it was actually an impossible desire to achieve – the interpretation of the entire Slovenian judiciary – by excluding the prosecution from justice. When this party speaks in its paper about the shortcomings of the prosecution court, it binds the concept of prosecution with the judiciary, with the judges, with the courts, when, in particular, those who have been most active in the debate and also, as it appears, in the preparation of the material, by their professional education and by their former profession before their post, they need to know very well that the prosecution does not fall within the field of judicial work, judicial service and justice, but rather that it belongs to the field of the prosecution and the police. That is why I think that the orientation of this session and this point is tremendously similar to the introduction of some totalitarianism in this country, when one political party wants to influence how the judges will judge and how they will decide. The fact that all indicators show that the situation in the judiciary is significantly improving, that the time spent in judicial proceedings is reduced, that the number of judges is increased or that the number of cases resolved is reduced, that all of these matters are nothing to the initiator of this point. For this reason, I believe that today's point merely mirrored the actual state of the spirit in this party. I think that they will have to think carefully before they can convince citizens and citizens that the situation in our country can really be described with a weak or deficient or with no idea of any other democracy, given that the only negative assessment in the professional magazine, as it has been said, relates to the level of political culture which is certainly supported by colleagues, in particular colleagues from this most opposition party, because the expressions used here in this Chamber about various wet issues and so on certainly do not belong to the level of political culture that belongs to a democratic country and that is, above all, to the civilized state of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u12	As expected, this almost three-day debate, taking into account the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, brought exactly what was expected. Expecting nothing concrete, nothing of the sort, which could be a contribution to improving the situation in the field of justice, where there is certainly room for improvement of certain things. However, it also showed that all unfounded allegations were rejected in the part where generalized, tendingly all things were declared inactive, to be conspiratory, to be depraved, to not know what else, and also to be skillfully exempt from certain things that might really need to be talked about, as well as individual phenomena, of individual activities. When we take up the issue of justice and rights for citizens and citizens, it is necessary to start from the police through the prosecution to the judiciary itself, then one part of the criticism within this whole structure is lost, especially when it comes to the role of the prosecution and individuals within it. It is not possible to get rid of the impression that this is really some substitute or pre-interpellation test, which has not surprisingly been written yet, because if all of this were true and it was possible to determine what has been said in all these days, then surely the Minister of Interpellation deserves it. But it's not like that. In the replies given, it can be confidently stated from these findings that the allegations are unfounded and that confidence in justice must be built, in the independent branch of government, not that the other branch of government is doing everything to destabilize what the legislative branch of government — at least I am so sure — should create conditions, from marriage to material and some others, so that this justice can function in the same way as it is constitutionally defined. I think it is simply necessary to say that this was an exercise, some attempt to convince the public that everything is wrong and that only if the right political options are in power will everything else be. But which are true, it is possible to understand that they know those who also set these readings and repeat them from day to day. In our Group of Members, we believe that it is different than trusting in judicial statistics, than trusting what we have heard here, to trust those who have represented it, especially the Minister, I do not think. For if that is not the case, but to rely on flat-rate evidence and that all of this occurs in the context of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, in the context of preparing for the election of the Attorney-General or the Prosecutor-General, that this occurs at a time when certain debates in the courts are threatening and may be burdensome for individuals under a particular political option, then it is no wonder that this atmosphere is trying to be established in this way, but I am sure that it will not be possible for the public to convince the public with the arguments presented here because they are not correct because they do not. I will therefore support that proposal for a decision which the Committee has also drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny," please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I was running out of time yesterday, and I couldn't finish it all, so today I'd like to say the other part. There was also a problem with the employment of professional co-workers who met the conditions for judges. The Minister said that, in agreement with the Council of Justice and the Presidents of all the higher courts, they had found a way to enable a certain number of judges to be employed. When we discussed the judges' salaries in the National Assembly, it was explained that the number of judges would decrease by 116, which also allows higher payment classes and salaries to judges without further burdening the budget. As we see, new and new judges are becoming increasingly employed, even though there are too many. And I want to know how this is going to work out financially. Nothing is said about transfers that apply to police officers and customs officers, because given the smallness of the state of Slovenia this should not be any problem. However, as far as the penal code is concerned, I am concerned that every government is correcting it, because in my opinion it should be valid for at least as long as the longest prison sentence lasts. I hope that this government, which is now preparing and will surely come to the parliamentary bench, will receive the support of all the parties, of course if it is written in such a way as to be acceptable to the majority, which has also decided on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! When presenting the opinion of the parliamentary group, I expressed the hope that this debate would be based on facts and lies, but after the discussion of the motioners, I know exactly that the species before the confessionals will be long if they want to accept a holy defence in due course. And that the next assessment of the political culture in Slovenia will be even lower than before, because the purpose of this debate was by no means to reach any agreement on changes in the judiciary, but was the intention of blacking out those otherwise thinking in a desire for full authority, which Dr. Gorenak announced at the presentation of the SDS opinion, "when the herd will elect 60 SDS Members, then constitutional changes of the judiciary will be possible". Of course, what changes this was supposed to be, he did not say, because it really doesn't matter. Autocratic, totalitarian control of all three branches of government is important. Such appetites in this House have not been so clearly expressed by anyone else since my conduct so far. And I'm actually glad that we know what we're dealing with, and that voters and voters know that. The objective is only important and the objective is to devote the means. In the case of the Chief Justice, the President of the High Court of Masleshe, the SDS Members had plenty of comments. When he was confirmed by his colleague Jelinčič as President of the Supreme Court, he was, of course, accused by the plasma of accusations, but this does not, of course, make it impossible for these same colleagues to sign a request with Jelinčič for such a discussion as today's. In one of the discussions, one of the opposition colleagues quoted Chief Prosecutor Shinkovec as saying at the debate of his mother's working body that such political pressure on the prosecution had not been shared in the past, I don't know how many 40-year careers. This same Supreme Prosecutor, Mr Šinkovec, was a judge who, in the case you like to point out, when the current candidate for the Attorney General, Mr Fischer, filed an indictment against the two priests who placed the cross at the cemetery, this Mr Šinkovec was the one who handed this judgment. Of course, that doesn't bother you. You take what's right for you. The goal is to devote the means. But the goal, as we say, is this absolute power. The truth in all of this is completely irrelevant. Again we could hear here the eyewitnesses made at the expense of the client Zares and her role in building a medical university in Maribor. The Faculty of Medicine in Maribor would, of course, have been built long ago if the involved were to comply with all the rules that must be followed in this country, the law on public procurement is true. The former head of the University of Maribor, through its invitation to tender, agreed in advance with some local construction sheriffs to decide who would build this university, even though one of the members of this local consortium was one who should not participate in public procurement because the state still owes it. And these are not the laws that this government has invented, but some of them. And these are the laws that I hope you think are good. Whoever owes the country won't get a new order from her. Therefore, it is, of course, impossible to replace one of these consortium members during the course of the procedure. And on this basis, what did the State Audit Commission say? What I'm telling you right now. In short, she told the invitation to tender, "exclusion this tenderer," two were supposed to stay. What did this tendering committee do? She's decided to do the same thing again. During the invitation to tender, they withdrew this and one of them who had been set up the day before put in, these local construction sheriffs. And that's supposed to be all right. And if the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology supports the State Audit Commission in this opinion, which clearly wants only one, and this is that the rule of law works for everyone and in all areas, what happens? The opposition convenes the Parliamentary Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology and Health at the same time, claiming that it is a whole set, one conspiracy, the political interest of the party Zares. If you think that a functioning legal country is the political interest of the party Really, of course you are right. And I'm proud of it. This is the only interest of the party really, but everything else is a diversion. To claim, on the one hand, that there are two legal states and, on the other hand, to refer committees and to politically pressure the State Audit Commission to make a decision contrary to the law — shame. Shame! That's why I've argued and said right now that it would be better for a lot of Members not to tighten their tongue here, so, in such a way and so falsely, so that they can squeeze it when they really want it, let's say they get some kind of guest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. At the end of this debate, one wonders logically what this debate was actually about, this exercise in the style of SDS. Was it designed to make repeated lies the truth? I don't know where you're drawing these examples from, but you probably should have learned the truth by now, so that even repeated lies can't become truth. And that's also true in this case. I wonder if you wanted to prove with this debate that everything is wrong in the judiciary, but that everything is fine only with the State Attorney's Office, especially the Attorney General's Office, in particular with the Attorney General's Office? Maybe, but then we could simplify this thing. Did you want to say and repeatedly repeat the lie that The Economist said what Mr Gorenak said? It's just an established phrase when we speak and quote newspapers, what they wrote, what they said, whether it's a person or just a newspaper, right? At least what I could afford, I'd let you teach the Slovenian language, and that's for your health, but not for your health. And it was The Economist who said that Slovenia has fallen to the point where there is talk about political culture, and that people have recently been saying that, in the last two years, confidence in political institutions, including political parties, has been reduced. And here you can find yourself. And you can say so many more lies about what The Economist found out about democracy in Slovenia, even these lies will not become the truth. Nor will they become the truth in recent times of repeated untruths about how plebiscite occurred in our country – who gave the first initiative to plebiscite, who challenged plebiscite. Next year will even be an opportunity for you to repeat more lies, lies, and lies in this regard. But still, even those lies I'm expecting, of course, will not become the truth. That's a fact. I wonder whether this debate was intended to be an interpretation against the Minister of Justice. If that's what you wanted, then you'd say you want to do it honestly. And then at least we'd know what we're talking about. In short, you can't even get enough credibility to say what you want. But everything you've thrown into the same basket, you've been basing it on the truths. So I really hope that our taxpayers will also see you wasting their time and their money for nothing just to spread lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Perhaps I was fortunate that I did not come to the debate yesterday, because I can give a brief assessment of a little less burdened by inter-party arguments. Not about this debate, but about this debate, which I think makes more sense. For the impression I have from the previous day is that we have spent much more time arguing, replicating and talking about how pointless it is to talk, rather than actually addressing the subject, which was decided by the opposition SDS in a legitimate way and by its choice and responsibility. The judiciary, as none of the branches of government in this country, is ideal and has its own problems. Especially because the judiciary is made up of people and people are exposed to human weaknesses. I am one of those who are not blinded, and I think that in the end everyone in the National Assembly would quickly conclude that there is too much corruption in the judiciary, that there is too much lobbying, that there are too many friendly ties and that this often leads to strange judicial decisions that we can hold on to many times. Fortunately, the judicial system knows several levels of decision-making and therefore we always have the opportunity and hope that we can correct the wrong decisions. Of course, what we have just said is not just about the judiciary, it is also about the prosecution, the police, politics and the economy, because in all these branches of government and the functioning of our society, we are working people and people are exposed to human weaknesses. The legal backlogs, which have been the rakrana of the Slovenian judiciary since the beginning of independence, are rakrana today. It is not possible to wait several years for one ordinary judicial recovery, sometimes to return the proceedings only because someone has found a comma in one article of the law or rule in the wrong place. But it's true that things are getting better, but it's not good. At the end of all this, the question – Who is responsible for this? In my opinion, this is the responsibility of the judiciary itself. In other legislation, which is the basis for the functioning of this judiciary. In a third government, but all governments, from first to present, are responsible for the organisation and functioning of the judiciary. Of course, this does not mean that we would now point to just one minister and determine that he is responsible for everything. Because he is not guilty, however, he is responsible for the judiciary as he was today, as the former for the judiciary until then and as the next for the judiciary when he is responsible for it. And it is only right that we warn the minister and the government of problems, as we see them. and it is also right for us to give this minister and this government the confidence they are doing, and to acknowledge when a step has been taken forward and the situation has improved. Improved not perfectly, for now we would think that the judiciary would become perfect overnight is, of course, an illusion. And at the end of the quarter, which is responsible for the state of justice in addition to the judiciary, legislation and governments, we are people, but our social culture is because for every bit of grass that is too green at the neighborhood kindergarten, we are ready to go to the lawsuit. For each branch that has been miswritten in a contract between the two companies, we are prepared to press charges. Here we all have to ask ourselves how many times we could solve a legal dispute or a misunderstanding without having to run to court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u22	Thank you. I firmly believe that the central message that should be coming out of this Parliament today is what I wanted to conclude my debate earlier, and it is running out of time. That's why I'm starting this part. We owe the establishment of a well-functioning legal state to all those who voted in favour of Slovenia alone 20 years ago on plebiscite. They did not vote only for the independent state, they also voted for democracy. To become a country that will in all respects be comparable to Europe, to the European Union and which will become an equal component of it. I'm sure of that. From here on out, let me make a little bow. Yesterday I started with a little humor, but today you let me go on with it. In fact, there have now been some extremely humorous statements by coalition colleagues. If I go in line. Honourable Member Zareza first made a nearly five-minute introduction to the topic of political culture and then, I quote, pointed out to the opposition, "that she convened this meeting with a view to," this is a quote, "pulling the language". A truly perfect example of political culture and I congratulate him on this practical display of the political culture of the ruling coalition. The honourable Member of the SD has given a lecture on trust in the institutions of the system. You know, for the most part, to trust people in the institutions of the system, these institutions can do it themselves. Believe that, with some humor, a truly invaluable contribution to confidence in the system's institutions is the fact that now, in addition to Danil Kovacic, who was acquitted by the president, Borut Šuštar was released, that is to say, the one who was the only one convicted of a major corrupt act in the past period. This is indeed an outstanding contribution to trust in institutions. Even though the prison he was in, after what my colleague presented yesterday, gave a negative opinion. They gave a negative attitude toward letting him go. But at the Ministry, there is a commission – the minister says it has nothing to do with, well, okay, some also say that the land is a flat plate – but decided that such a person can be released. This is indeed a perfect leadership with the example of young generations and a truly remarkable contribution to trust in institutions. Allow me to congratulate you on all these humorous contributions. However, I must say that I regret that there have been some manipulations when, for example, in some media, it has been said that we are assessing whether I personally am dealing with the protection of our privileges and payments. I quoted yesterday in the opening part of the German judge Norman Doukoff's opinion, and I also made that very clear, you can check in the magnetogram. He was a consultant in Slovenia's pre-accession negotiations with the European Union and was at the press conference at the end, as his conclusion, so the finding of German Judge Norman Doukoff presented, quote, "that judges are engaged in protecting their privileges and payments with us". This policy, however, has now been institutionalised by some of its legal regulations or bills, which the coalition subsequently confirmed, by the current minister. I'm sorry to hear that. And for the end, just a warning. Some of you said that you wanted to know who to submit to, and that that was our purpose. We're in the opposition. Of course, we can't even have that kind of purpose. It's absurd to even state as an obvious. However, there is some real danger for democracy in Slovenia, and this has been very exposed by the conduct and debate on the proposal to appoint Mr Masleš's President of the Supreme Court, from your conduct and your discussions, ladies and gentlemen, that there is certainly a silent desire in Slovenia to restore the unity of government. For the knowledge that everyone should have is that when the majority in the National Assembly has a side that has its roots in Slovenian spring, there is still a majority in other branches of government, politically, on a completely different pole. And when it's here [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Jell-O, time's up, mag. Grimes. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate is slowly closing, and it is likely that the debate on the state of justice will reach its goal if we really focus our views on the future, and if we are actually looking for ways to improve the state of justice. I think, I will say, after these hours and hours of debate, we can all find, together with sadness, that there were very few such discussions. Most things have been directed to the past, to specific cases and, of course, to things being done and shown even worse than they might actually be. But here I would like to be different on my own, and I think that we have recently proposed some very relevant issues that need to be discussed here and that the profession should also think about. One of these proposals is to start thinking about the reverse burden of proof in Slovenia. I think that this debate has been useful and that it is necessary to find and seek opportunities for this to take place in our practice, because the results brought by this matter elsewhere are good. Another proposal, which has well aroused the Slovenian public, is also a proposal to arrange and enforce the seizure of assets of suspicious, criminal origin. Although we somehow have this written down somewhere, it is clear that the matter does not work, that no one is actually applying it and that it is extremely rare. And in these days, when we look at what is happening to the former prime minister of the neighbouring country, Mr Sanader, people see more and more how important it is and what kind of message is given if, in the case of such cases as the suspicion of his crimes, the property is frozen. And we don't do it in this country, we don't do it, at least it doesn't. This is another good proposal, which I think we have done a great deal and, of course, we are also waiting for the expertise to give the right answers, that the marriage proposal we tabled should be supplemented if there is a flaw, and that, of course, we are also looking in this direction for a solution that, in my opinion, would lead to a much better state and opinion in the field of justice. We will also discuss one matter today, about the authentic interpretation of the Financial Transactions Act, where we will try to settle it, I will say, again, different interpretations of discharges in the event of forced settlement. Again, where he has as many opinions as people express their views, and of course, where we hope that we will also make these things possible for people who are in trouble, not only in Mercury, but in some other cases. And one more thing I would like to say is that I think it will have to be law after all these years when we see certain things, and this profession will have to discuss two important issues in Slovenia and in the Slovenian legal order. An in-depth discussion is needed on the extremely high evidentiary standards that we have in the Slovenian judiciary. I think it's a matter for the profession to start dealing with. To see if we may be back here somewhere and what is happening in other comparable European countries in this area. According to the information I have, they find that, in persecuting the most sophisticated forms of economic law with an existing extremely high standard, they do not come far and, of course, this matter may be an obstacle. Another issue that we all find to be a problem is the duty of the legal profession to address procedural issues. Our court, after what we can read and hear repeatedly from lawyers' mouths, has become too procedural and is engaged or things are happening mainly at the process level. This way things go down, these things don't work out the way they're supposed to. Those who carry out forecasting procedures find that there is also a great deal of room for manipulation, etc. It seems to me that there are two very important areas in which I hope that this very important legal profession will address them and give us politicians who are not meant to be too explicitly involved, clear answers where they could be more successful in these areas and give us a better tool for a more successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. He has a word, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Make it quick. If we were to sum up the time available to the minister and listen to what he said and then the minister would go to the church and confess, he would probably have to sit there for as long as he had time to say. Look, Minister, you're saying, "In my time, all things went down: the lawyers' heresy." This is not a factory paper, as Mr Anderlich would say, it is Finance. What does it say in here today? The price of legal fees in the 100,000 euro disputed case before Sturm is EUR 3 000 430, at the time of the Sturm tariff by Minister Sturm, EUR 2 000 200 and today EUR 4 000 300. But I won't fool you like you do, I won't. That's not your call. That was decided by the Supreme Court. The higher court. So there are higher judges who are not and who do not want to read the law, which clearly states that each claim cannot be cashed out for itself, but must count the whole, so they have made an illegal decision. First case for the President of the Supreme Court, who can start cleaning up and get my congratulations, even though I didn't vote for him. So don't hold on to what you're saying. That way I can deny you in statistics, so it's not your fault, I know it's not, I won't fool you, but it's the court. I can do the same for all the other statistics you've listed, but I don't have time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the rule of law, so that's what we're talking about. I expected some of the speakers to say, say, Mr Anderlič about what the Zemun Agreement is. Nothing's been heard. But I'd rather talk about it – the rule of law, you can say whatever you want, I hope that in the coming days, I'll get some expert to do some polling between people or some newspaper we'll see. Ladies and gentlemen, while Grubenik has been walking peacefully for 12 years, he has a finding and we have not yet closed it. As long as Shuštar is, but we say he went on a vacation or something, he's been released prematurely because he's a member of the department's commission because he belongs to the elite. Until the President of the Republic pardons Kovacich. Auer shall be authorised by the President of the Republic. So here are the cases of the elite. Even if the court condemns this elite, even if it does, they will find a way out, but not in law, in relationships and acquaintances, because they belong to the elite. You won't convince me that it's a legal country that applies to everyone. You're not gonna convince me that. 50,000 people went on the road during your term! It's not all your fault. I know. Let's be objective. But 50,000 people lost their jobs. Fifty thousand people are fighting for fundamental rights, for which they are fighting for their retirement, for part of their wages because they have worked for 12 months for free. 12 months free and today they don't have a piece of bread. These gentlemen, whom I counted, went on a holiday, and took them in their pockets for hundreds of thousands of euros. Is this a legal state? Absolutely not. You will be denied by those from the Wall, those from Gorenje, those from Vegrad, Prevent, Mercury. They have to tell you that. If you don't hear it, if you don't want to hear it, they'll tell you once on the road or at least tell you at the polls. And it's about time they told you. When I spoke about 60 per cent, about which, by the way, Mr President, your Member said that it was "staining a language" that you did not respond to, so will I. When your Member spoke about 60 Members, I made it very clear when 60 Members in this country who will change the Constitution will be the rule of law for all people, and I said nothing else. He thinks it's a dictatorship. Then there's a dictatorship in Hungary, isn't there?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The Slovenian National Party shall be co-signatory of the request to convene an extraordinary meeting on the state of justice. We are cosigners because we are convinced that the symbol of justice, the scale, is no longer balanced. It is not just you, Mr. Minister, all the coalition, those who are not, and those who are here, that in vain convince the people that everything in this country is in the best order and that the emperor has new clothes. People know, people know the emperor is naked, naked, and we hope to say it out loud. Leave the statistical data to the Statistical Office. You, Mr. Minister, have your associates in the hands of the scissors and the canvas, and you are shaping the fate of thousands of Slovenians who are fighting the windmills in the wind, you, Mr. Minister. And finally, you said you wanted advice, a suggestion. I will give it to you, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party: Exchange, for God's sake, arguments of power with the power of arguments! Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Minister Aleš Zalar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members of the Opposition! If Goethe were still alive, I'd say, "Mehr Licht!" More lights! More lights! When you mentioned the conditional discharges and the person who was fired – I will not speak with names and surnames on purpose – and you linked this to the fact that we do not have a legal state that treats everything equally. We have the Penal Code, which you have adopted and which provides in article 88 that a convicted person may be released on probation when he ceases half the prison sentence. So it's the legal right of convicts. Isn't equality before the law supposed to apply to convicts? Should we have political convicts who do not have the right to campaign for them? And I'm not defending the commission's decision to understand each other, I'm not defending her, I'm not defending her. But I would like to point out that if we go to equality before the law, then that must apply to everyone. If the National Assembly has adopted such a provision in the Penal Code, then it should apply. It is not used by the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is used by an independent commission, an independent tribunal, in which is the Chief Justice, the Chief Prosecutor or the Chief Justice, the Chief Prosecutor and one representative of the Ministry. You know what's most interesting? The same person was conditionally dismissed by the suspension of a prison sentence during the previous Minister of Sturm on 1 March 2007, the same person, by the same independent commission. The Minister is not a recipient of materials, no one consults him about it, no one informs him of whom they have forgiven, every year they release from our prisons about 350 people on parole. In the year 350 last year, the applications were over 900. Are all those elites you're talking about? Were they all forgiven under the law that you had adopted? Once there has been a talk on lawyers and lawyers' tariffs, once again, the tariffs have remained unchanged in this mandate. If any of the courts have applied the law in a way that may be doubtful, then we have legal remedies here, including the State Prosecutor's Office, and Mr Gorenak, who can launch an extremely legal remedy, even in civil proceedings, let him do so if it is wrong here. I read this article in Finance, too. And it's hard to understand this matter until I see the verdict, but I don't have a verdict. And that's why I'd be here careful to assess the situation. When it comes to the question of my attitude towards the referendum, Mr Grims, my attitude towards the referendum is as it is from the Constitution, but I also have this attitude towards the Constitutional Court's decisions and if the Constitutional Court does not allow the referendum, and if the Constitutional Court says that the referendum would trigger unconstitutional consequences, then such a constitutional decision must be respected, not criticising constitutional judges, that they are in a state of defiance with the current political authority. This is the best example of how the rule of law and trust in the institutions of the system are subordinated to the supreme guardian of the constitutionality we have. Here you need to think about your own political culture and legal culture. And when it comes to re-leading the compensations that Slovenia pays, however, you should take it for God's sake to read the material presented to you by the Government in connection with this request. We paid one in 2010, one in 2010, and you paid 207 in 2008. And the two judgments that came recently, you know why they came because the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg has been lagging behind and they have been judging a case that fell in a period where Slovenia has not yet had this special law, that is why, and that is all. So I'm asking you not to deceive people. And answer the question regarding the decision of the Government to appoint ad hoc judges for the European Court of Human Rights. It's an ad hoc judge, it's not a judge who's constantly on salary, it's just a stand by if by chance Judge Boštjan M. Zupančič couldn't participate in the trial for any reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We concluded the general debate on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the examination of the proposal for a decision has been completed. That's my conclusion. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues! During the debate, we also tabled a proposal for an amendment. I regret to note that you have not even divided this amendment. Here I would just like to remind you that the working body has adopted a decision, this decision is based on the fact that it can also be amended and it is obvious that very different rules apply in the National Assembly, it is said that some are allowed to do everything, more than the rules of procedure, which three articles do, and some do not allow the amendment of articles which is an integral part of the report that we have at this point in our consideration. In short, the President, I propose that you divide this amendment into a decision and that the National Assembly also votes on it as usual for all items of the agenda where the President of the National Assembly allows the division of the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups. Now, I don't know, for the fifth time or for the tenth time, it will be the President of the National Assembly who prevents the division of the amendment tabled by either the opposition or the largest opposition party and thus prevents the decision and decision on the amended or the amended proposal for a decision. This is not in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, it is not in the spirit of anything, it is also beyond the authority of anyone in the National Assembly, anyone. The President of the National Assembly has not authorised him to reject the amendment to a decision or any other matter. He doesn't have that authority! Unfortunately, this is happening again. I have to warn you. I hope that you will heed this proposal and that you will divide the amendment into a conclusion and that we will be able to decide on it. By the way, with this amendment, we propose that, in the event of findings and inconsistencies in certain forms of crime, and in general in the state of justice, appropriate constitutional changes be made. As we know, part of what the Ministry has proposed is the Constitutional Court, we propose that it complement the second part. However, first of all, this amendment to the Decision should be distributed to the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I can't agree with your proposal. In fact, we did not distribute the amendment to Members and Members of Parliament. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the report of the Committee shows the following. The Committee voted on each point of the draft decision separately and did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9 December 2009, the Chairman of the Committee therefore concluded that the examination of the proposal for a decision on the state of justice, the political impact on it and the measures taken to regulate the situation on the home working body had been completed. When this hearing was concluded, the Committee, at the proposal of Mr Anderlich, adopted a decision: the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at the request of Members and Members, held a debate with the first-signed Jozet Tank on the state of justice, the political impact on it and the measures taken to regulate the situation. We cannot vote on this decision. That's a fact. We cannot amend this decision. First of all, we cannot amend the positions, decisions that the Committee has not adopted. You can't table an amendment for something that doesn't exist twice. This is a familiar decision to inform us that the Committee has concluded the debate and, of course, is not the subject of our decision. What would happen if we voted against this decision, or if this decision were to be rejected, would mean that the committee did not end this debate – it is, too, so the matter is clear. I therefore conclude this item on the agenda. Mr Tanko, if you have a problem in this regard, I ask you to turn to the Rules of Procedure Commission, and I am exercising my right not to give you new procedural options for a procedural question in this regard. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE 3. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the ARTICLE OF THE FINANCIAL BUSINESS, PROCESSED FOR INSOLVENCE AND FORCULAR DISCONTINUATION The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by a group of three Members with the first-signed Aloysija Potočnik. In order to further explain the proposal for an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to Aloyzi Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u34	Your Honor! By means of an amended proposal for an authentic interpretation of the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures, we are trying to eliminate some of the uncertainties or inconsistencies in the Financial Operations Act that cause problems to workers who have lost their working relationship for business reasons, company administrations, managers of forced settlement, courts, trade unions and perhaps others. This is a problem of unpaid discharges, forcible settlement procedures or the question of whether they are among the priority, subordinated or ordinary claims. For the legal shortest binding path likely to be followed by the additions to the Financial Business Act, we have decided on a series of procedures currently under way on this issue, expressed by the wills of those deciding that the problem will be resolved as quickly as possible and in the best interests of the weakest party — workers — and to help those who are fired in a difficult personal situation caused by the general crisis with what they are doing. In other words. By authentic explanation, for we will not give anyone something that he does not, and on the other hand, we will not take away anything that is supposed to belong to him. Inconsistentness, illogicality, ambiguity or if you want a mistake, the legislative branch of power has made and Members are obliged to correct it fairly as soon as possible. I will also allow for a regression on the rule of law, which is closely linked to the rights of the citizens we are dealing with. It is this case that proves that the rule of law works when dealing with a real and not a virtual world. This was in mind by a prominent Slovenian writer who warned us against the Gardens of Eden. The next thing you know, "Nothing's real, everything's allowed." Therefore, before we say them in this House, before we say them, we think very deeply of ourselves not to legitimise the culture of the contrabant, as a Slovenian intellectual would say, in relation to nature and also trends in Slovenian politics. Let me return to our real work — the needs and rights of people. We expect the Members to support the proposal, including in view of the unified opinion of the parent body presented by a colleague Dr. Gorenak, the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Relatively very briefly. This proposal for an authentic interpretation was discussed by the Committee at its 21st meeting. The Committee unanimously, I stress, unanimously adopted and supported this proposal of an authentic interpretation, as did the Government, and the Legislative and Legal Service was of the same opinion, with the Legislative and Legal Service pointing out the problem that is actually at the expense of the courts interpreting this matter differently. The notice of the Legislative and Legal Service is going in the direction that the court should be the one to make the order and to simplify the application of the law within the judiciary in a timely manner. But, anyway, the committee finally decided that this authentic explanation would be supported, and I also call on you to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u38	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government also addressed the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Law on Financial Operations, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. It is also the view of the Government that such an authentic interpretation is necessary, meaningful and can contribute to the effective provision of both the principle of legal certainty and social security. The reason or need for such an authentic interpretation stems from the different interpretations and dilemmas that have arisen in practice on this issue. It is the Government's view that this provision must be understood so that, even in the enforcement proceedings, the claims of those unpaid benefits arising prior to the start of the compulsory settlement are considered to be a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u40	Good afternoon. Your Honor! The Group of Unaffiliated Members also considers that the Law on Financial Transactions, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation should be understood as a priority claim in the enforcement procedure. Both legal and grammatical or linguistic interpretation must be based on logical, meaningful positions. The enforcement procedure shall be carried out without delay prior to the initiation of any bankruptcy procedure. All claims shall be incurred prior to the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure, even if the bankruptcy proceedings were not subsequently instituted. There's no other explanation. Different interpretations that would lead to an illogical situation where an employee from the same address had an unpaid claim, in the case of a possible later bankruptcy, a priority claim, but not in the process of a compulsory settlement, which is necessarily conducted before the start. We can't accept that. Article 50 of the Constitution refers to the right to social security, which would not be fulfilled in this case. We also believe that the interpretation of the law cannot be left to judicial practice; it can be different. It is imperative that the National Assembly determine this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are pleased to note that, at the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, we have all agreed that it is reasonable and necessary to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Financial Action Act, which will clearly and unequivocally state that the obligation to pay workers' priority claims is valid even before the bankruptcy procedure is introduced, i.e. in a coerced settlement. Notwithstanding the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned us that it is possible to find, by means of a linguistic and systematic explanation, that this obligation to pay workers in the present law arises, however, that all those who use and interpret the law obviously do not think so and that this authentic explanation is therefore necessary. Especially since we have been faced with a number of such cases in recent times, it is unlikely that we will still be, and it does not make sense for us to ask these questions without need to be contentious so that workers can come to their claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u44	A very nice greeting to all, and especially a nice greeting to the employees of Mercury and Mersteel today, because the problem that is now on the agenda is in fact due to the hardship that has arisen in these companies. In fact, the law, as it is now written, was interpreted in the way that the dismissal of workers was classified as claims and they suddenly became creditors in the process of forced settlement. Such interpretation – and in the SDS here we agree with the proponents – is wrong in our view and deviates from the purpose that the legislator had in adopting this law. In fact, according to the data that I was also briefed on in Mercury, where all the members of the Gorenje have been invited, unfortunately I was the only one to have participated in this at the time, as much as 85% of all compulsory settlements eventually end up in bankruptcy, so this interpretation is all the more justified as it comes from the actual situation, as is the case with developments in this area in individual companies. The fact is, in these companies, they have this money. This money is reserved and would have already been paid if there had been no misinterpretation of this law. Trade unions in the company also fully agree and support this solution. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we fully support and vote in favour of the authentic interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u46	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Given the dilemmas and differing interpretations in the practice of Article 21 of this Act, which is contrary to the constitutional principle of legal certainty and also to the constitutional right to social security, we agree that the text of the proposal of authentic interpretation should stress in particular that the claims of workers for the payment of the benefit of the priority claim are also in the process of forcible settlement. Article 21 of the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures should be understood to mean that, even in the enforcement procedure, the prioritisation of unremunerated benefits for termination of the work relationship arising prior to the commencement of the forced settlement procedure and belonging to employees under the Act governing working relationships should be considered. We will support the proposed authentic explanation in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the decision of the parent working body proposing to the National Assembly to adopt the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the text as set out in the decision. There has been a dilemma between the financial and business restructurings of our well-known trader in the interpretation of the law and thus the difficulties of implementation in practice with regard to the status of dismissals for workers who have been dismissed. In order to eliminate the different and controversial interpretation of the concept and conditions that must be met, to consider an unsecured claim as a priority, and to effectively get workers what they are doing in accordance with the general principles of legal security and the social state, the situation must therefore be resolved. At the same time, to prevent any future distortions of workers that would have occurred in the event of non-action, otherwise, in the particular case of Mercury and Mersteel. In view of the fact that interpretation has been carried out by a systematic method, it can be concluded that the unpaid cancellations are also in the process of forcible settlement. This is also confirmed by the language interpretation and logical reasoning rules. In favour of proposing an authentic interpretation, the previous law also provided that the right to retirement was protected as a priority claim in the enforcement procedure. Last but not least, the Constitutional Court stated in one of its decisions that, if possible, vague and inconsistent legal arrangements or, in the event of doubt, interpretation of the provision on the right to retirement should be made for the benefit of the worker. In the DeSUS Group, we agree to interpret contested waivers, such as the proposed text of an authentic interpretation. For the purpose of the legislator cannot and should not be different from that of the protection of workers who have been dismissed, thereby ensuring the same position of workers in terms of the conditions for the payment of leave during the insolvency period. In this case, insolvency and insolvency proceedings are key, and in any event prior to a possible bankruptcy procedure there is also a compulsory settlement procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u50	Dear Mr. President! The authentic interpretation of the law is an instrument which allows the legislator to legally waive the content of the legal provision which he has already adopted, within its original meaning, so that it is in practice clear what this requires. The authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law, but can only refer to the interpretation of the legal provisions which have proved unclear in practice in the context of the content in question. With regard to the third point of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination proceedings, in practice, the applicants' arguments and different interpretations as to whether the legislator knowingly distinguishes between discharges in the enforcement procedure and bankruptcy proceedings shall be raised. The question therefore arose whether the unpaid benefits to workers arising prior to the start of the enforcement settlement procedure were among the priority claims or not in the enforcement settlement procedure. Therefore, according to Article 21, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, the priority claims are also outstanding for the termination of the employment relationship prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy procedure, which belongs to employees under the law governing the employment relationship, but mostly to the amount of the dismissal fixed for the worker to whom the employer terminates the employment contract for business reasons. However, the enforcement procedure shall be conducted without delay before the insolvency proceedings are initiated. All claims arising prior to the enforcement procedure shall necessarily arise before the insolvency proceedings start, even if the bankruptcy procedure is not subsequently initiated. It follows from the foregoing that Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures should be understood to be considered as priority claims in the enforcement procedure also to terminate the working relationship arising prior to the initiation of the enforcement settlement procedure. There is no reasonable explanation for the distinction between the payment of benefits to workers between the enforcement procedure and bankruptcy. Such an interpretation is also primarily in line with the constitutionally guaranteed principle of the social state and the right to social security. On a secondary basis, it would also provide for the payment of discharges to dismissed workers in the process of forcible settlement. According to the managers of the forced settlement in Mercury and Mersteel, their payment is now prevented by the law in force. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u51	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u52	Since we clearly represent the position in the Slovenian National Party Group that there is a need to interpret the provision on the right of retirement for the benefit of the worker on a possible unclear or inconsistent legal regime, we will also support the proposal for an authentic interpretation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Welcome to the State Secretary and Director of the Directorate and to the balcony to which this explanation is intended! The term "authentic explanation" sounds pretty cheap and dry. One way or another, it seems to me that fates, sad stories of 45 employees in former Mercury and 74 people in Mersteel are hiding behind this explanation, so this point is still important. It is also right that laws in this country and around the world are adopted by Members and Members, in the end judges and courts shall judge them or their decisions. However, when matters are at stake, it is certainly first to ask what he meant and how he wanted to settle matters that he had accepted. In the National Assembly and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are particularly grateful to the Ministry of Justice, which has set a great stone for pressing the path of this successful story. Indeed, it was also mentioned that the members of Gorenje and Members, including representatives from the Group of Members I am leading, were invited by the management of Merkur to Naklo, but we did not deliberately attend the meeting for reasons why the Administration would be privileged to those who earned their leave and came to seek their right to Parliament, where we also invited the Mercury Administration; so far they have not been, and I hope they will still come. We simply wanted to have workers and administration in the same position, because those who once successfully brought Mercury's story to almost heaven and were most deserving of it, and then because of the incomprehensible mistakes of the administration landed at the bottom, they certainly deserve this recognition and attention. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination, in order to ensure that, in the process of forcible settlement, the priority claims are outstanding for workers who have been made prior to the start of the forced settlement procedure and also by its explanation. We believe that an authentic interpretation of this provision is necessary because of dilemmas and different interpretations in practice, which is contrary to the constitutional principle of legal certainty and also to the constitutional right to social security. At the same time, we believe that, in view of the clarity of the proposal itself, the text of the authentic interpretation should stress in particular the fact that the claims of workers for the payment of relief are a priority claim, including in the enforcement procedure. Because if we allow this right when an entity goes bankrupt, then there is no logic that these rights are not when it comes to a forced settlement, because we want to achieve even more, more noble, even more economical goal of a simple undertaking to continue to operate. There the workers are certainly more important than the stocks than the creditors, as the claims and as the building itself, because without them there is no result and success in this story. With the cooperation of the Ministry of Justice, we have amended the original text of the authentic interpretation proposal to read: "Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures, it must be understood that also," here is the emphasis, "in the enforcement procedure, they are considered to be the priority claims of unpaid retirement for termination of the work relationship which occurred prior to the start of the forced settlement procedure and which belong to employees under the law governing working relationships, but most of all to the amount of relief fixed for workers whose employer terminates the employment contract for business reasons". The authentic interpretation of the law itself is an instrument that allows the legislator to legally define the substantive legal provisions which he has already adopted, in the context of its original importance, that it is in practice incontrovertible to make clear what this requires. The authentic interpretation is adopted by the National Assembly when a standard in the law is not sufficiently clear, meaning an interpretation of a vague legal norm. Its specialty is in its special power, as it becomes an integral part of the law and has been in force since the date on which the law in which the authentic interpretation has been adopted, is applicable in retrospect. Section 3 of Article 21(1) of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings refer to unpaid discharges prior to the commencement of insolvency proceedings as priority claims, which could in practice imply that in the case of insolvency proceedings, benefits may be made only if bankruptcy proceedings are initiated, but not in the event of a forced settlement. At the same time, we draw attention to the provision of the second paragraph of the same Article, which explicitly sets out those priority claims which are only in insolvency proceedings, and paragraph 1 covers all insolvency proceedings, i.e. compulsory settlement, in the light of the text of paragraph 2 of this Article. In spite of the fact that the article of the law clearly defines forcible settlement as the same type of procedure where departures are a priority claim for workers, in a particular case there has been a wrong, I stress, misinterpretation of the provisions of this Article of the law and of course the wrongs caused, in our opinion, by employees. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are clearly aware of the fact that the interpretation of legislative provisions is the responsibility of the courts. We also understand the warning of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which reminds us that by adopting the authentic interpretation of Article 21, Members and Members of Parliament take some responsibility. Maybe even some people think they're some tasks that aren't ours. However, we believe that there are times when it is possible and some things need to be resolved in just one place. And this city is today and at this moment the National Assembly. The content of the interpretation itself does not in any way extend or alter the meaning of the provision, since it is already clear from a linguistic and systematic point of view and interpretation. We are therefore convinced that the proposed interpretation is admissible and necessary. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have participated, as I have already mentioned, in the process of finding the best possible solution for the situation of the workers of Mercury. We have found this solution, I am sure, together with all those who will vote on it today in the National Assembly, we have found it, saved it and closed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and on the amendment of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which fully replaces the proposed text of the interpretation. The word is Franco Yuri. Let's get the mags ready. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u56	Thank you, President, for your word. I believe that it is of utmost importance that we have found the agreement of all here present parliamentary groups on a topic that is crucial to the interests of the workers, not only the workers of Mercury, but that this authentic interpretation allows for the resolution of such problems and the issue of priority claims for all companies in the same situation. The authentic interpretation of the Financial Operations Act also proves that there are sometimes some inconsistencies in our legislation and that it will be necessary to continue to work towards finding concrete solutions to the specific problems of workers. When the initiators of this authentic interpretation signed the proposal, we were aware that we were opening a front with a problem that would be understood not only for the public and for the affected workers, but, today, it is proven, for all parliamentary parties, and this is important. We would like to present today a signal to the public, to the work of the National Assembly, which is a state-opened state in the sense of taking into account the hardship that many workers have experienced due to the inadequacy of legislation. In doing so, I would like to point out that this is not the end of the story. In this proposal, we also wanted to resolve the problem of other workers, some issues relating to unpaid contributions. This will be the next task, immediately after the new year, we will open the question on the competent committees and look for concrete solutions for those unpaid contributions that have a poor impact on the calculation of pension bases. This is a question of the Nova Glass, which remains open despite the fact that, with the new law, the pension law, which I hope to confirm today, we will finally resolve this issue and prevent the postponement and non-payment of contributions. But that's another story. The story that we want to lead in parallel today is achieved, and we allow and offer the first step in this direction, the next will be a solution, a just solution to those open issues. So allow me to express the satisfaction, satisfaction of our Zares Group, my personal satisfaction that before the anniversary of the 20th anniversary of independence we have done something concrete, all together today, because there is no doubt that we will decide and vote unanimously. And I think that's the best signal this House can send to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Gnyardsich. [[He's not here.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Miran Györek wants a word. Get Bogdan Barovich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I fully agree, as we have stated in the party's position, with the proposal for such interpretation, the authentic interpretations of this law or this article. On this occasion, however, I would ask or question someone about the case that took place in Murska Sobota, the Mura factory, one of the biggest bankruptcys or with the largest number of workers fired, and it is interesting that this proposal for this clarification of this article came only now that the case has affected Mercury. In this case, as was the case with Mura, where the workers are still fighting, and this is obviously in vain, for this right which is legally theirs, and I wonder if the representative of the Government also says that the norm is clear that there is nothing to discuss here but that the courts otherwise understand this norm. And in the case of Mura's bankruptcy, there have been thousands of injustices. And I am very interested in what will happen now in this case with the procedures that fired workers and workers from the Murska Sobota, and these are not many, as I have said, these thousands of them, how and what they can expect from accepting such an authentic explanation, and what will now be the courts in all these proceedings where Mura's forgiven workers are not comfortable. Thus, I am full of hope and optimism that this matter will also be settled there, that it is not a matter of priority to be settled here solely because of the dismissed workers of Mercury, with whom I also sympathize, and I hope that they will achieve their right. So, to the representative of the government or to the minister – I expect him to be able to do this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. [[He's not here.]] Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Your Clavor. [[He's not here.]] Willie Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Vito Rojej. [[He's not here.]] Andrej Magajna has the word to prepare Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u60	Nice greetings to all present! Every right must ultimately be rebuttal. The right to retirement shall not be restricted solely to insolvency proceedings. In fact, bankruptcy is the final phase. This right is recognised and exercised before the bankruptcy procedure, and this great unity in this decision on the authentic interpretation. The Legislative and Legal Service has stressed that a language logical explanation could be given, in short, with a meaningful interpretation of the law already being interpreted, but we are afraid of judicial practices that would not go in this direction, and I believe that there is no need for any further words to support the issue in clear agreement to the satisfaction of the workers and the courts, so that they will have a clear orientation in further decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Lois Posedel. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Branko Grimes, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u62	Say good-bye again! See, I firmly believe that the issue of payment in this case is also related to the issue of trust in the rule of law in the broadest sense of the word. All the employees involved in these proceedings I firmly believe that they have worked in good faith to be protected by the regulations and the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. In practice, it turned out otherwise that the interpretation of the law in a way which I think is wrong and which, in my firm belief, does not reflect the legislator's purpose when this law was adopted, and therefore people have lost their money, but is reserved for them, and thus has not been able to solve the solutions to which people, in the framework of their trust in the rule of law, in good faith, have approached and would certainly be for the benefit of all — businesses, employees, trade unions, that is to say all. For this reason, too, with this argument, I certainly support the adoption of an authentic interpretation, since only in this way will the purpose of the legislator be fully satisfied when the law has been adopted. I can only express my pure personal regret that this authentic explanation cannot also include taking away the assets of all of the Gornja Taiwanese and banking ties that have brought as good companies as Mercury and Mersteel, with their attempt to "accept" into the current absolutely no flattering state. I can only hope that those who will remain in the company and the new management will be able to start things again and that Gorenska will maintain these two companies in full. For it is not just the employees, but this is what we need to know today when we make this decision, not just for employees in these two companies. About 20 000 other jobs in companies, small and medium-sized enterprises connected to this system are linked to the whole package. This is said to be why this decision is even more important. It is a mutual solution that people have come to in good faith, that they also allow businesses to be put back on track and maintained in full. Let me finish a little less seriously. In the introductory part, the applicant said in his introductory words at this point that it would be good to avoid difficult words. If he was referring to his client friend, who spoke at the preceding point about the tightening of the tongue, this could really be the case with the group. You didn't have to use this counter to do that. But if he thought that humor, which was displayed so many times by the government today, when, in the introduction, the same minister said that, I quote, "was wasting money on referendums", he ultimately interpreted it as his positive attitude towards the constitutional institution of the referendum, and then, I must say, the words of the candidate were probably within this agenda point certainly on the spot. However, I must also say something frankly that, with this strong humor that has been demonstrated today by the coalition and the government, especially at the previous item in the agenda, I am afraid that my joke, when I issued a great state secret, the action password of the current government "Better sniff and fly, than drink and drive" which fades somewhere. I certainly hope that next year there will be less humor, more work and appropriate proposals, measures to revive the Slovenian economy by the current authorities, and that this will be the message we are ending this year. I wish you all good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, thank you for having pointed out on your own that this debate is linked to the past 1st item of the agenda. And please don't do this because we already have a second point. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. Proposer of Aloysius Potočnik? No, no, no. Then I note that we have concluded the discussion on the proposal for an authentic explanation. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination shall be adopted. We're moving to the vote. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that we are therefore moving on to the text of the authentic interpretation, namely to decide on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, as reflected in the report of the Public Administration and Justice Committee, which fully replaces the proposed text for discussion. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the text of the authentic interpretation of the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. First of all, we will consider the Government's Notice of the resignation of Dr Henrik Gjerkš from the position of Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development. As President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, as President of the National Assembly, informed me that Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš, Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development, had resigned from the post of Minister. The Minister informed him that he would not explain his resignation in the National Assembly. In this regard, I propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, find that Dr Henrik Gjerkeš has ceased to serve as Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. Pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In our common name, Dr. Henrik Gjerkeš, I thank you for your cooperation, and I wish him all the best in his further work. We have thus concluded this agenda item in the framework of the Terms of Reference. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the National Council of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, in view of the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of the holders of public functions, in order to influence the outcome of the elections in the 2008 National Assembly, in view of the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of the holders of public functions for the purpose of misleading the domestic and foreign public and domestic and foreign investigative bodies on the basis of the partial or political needs of the organised, as well as certain hidden data, resulting in the extension and aggravation of the criminal investigation in the case of Patrio or its targeting the non-involunated political competitors, as a result of the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of the holders of public authorities for the purpose of misleading the domestic public and concealing of the conflicts of interests of the foreign investigators and of the abuse of the Council against the uninvolved political competitors of the public administration of the parliament. If you still have to read the title of the decision, you'll let me tell you it's the committee on the Patricia case. The proposal for a decision, as obtained with the material, was submitted by the Mandate-Volution Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Some things in this coalition take place extremely quickly and also unusually, at least as far as DeSUS is concerned. In his proposal to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Gjerkesh stated that he was ready to resign from the post of Minister. And the next day, the Prime Minister wrote that he had resigned from his post as Minister. It is somehow very unusual for the President of the Government to reclassify his willingness to step down so quickly. So much for that. Now we're at a point where there's obviously a lot of embarrassment in the coalition, at a point where there's a lot of trouble. First of all, I would like to point out that somehow everything takes place in the style of the indictment motion of Chief State Prosecutor Branka Zobbek Hrastar, when one of the accused or some of the accused wrote that they had accepted the promise of commission in an undetermined place, an undetermined day from an unknown person and in an undisclosed way. With this proposal made by the coalition in this mandate to relieve itself of the position of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Montenegro and also his deputy Robert Hrovat, you have gone even further. It is said that without writing that there was anything, that these two Members were in any undetermined place, any undetermined day, to participate in any business with any unknown person and in any undetermined manner, you have proposed these two Members to be witnesses to this investigative commission. That means you've driven these methods of Jerjinsky to extremes. So much humility in this, with this Patria affair as it is now, it was not even possible to predict. To present a witness to an investigative committee without mentioning him in a two-year, three-year history of dealing with this affair, then it's something that's very distorted. You did not propose to investigate those who dealt with this affair very intensively. One such is former journalist Rok Praprotnik, who is now vice president of the anti-corruption commission. He does not have a comprehensive record of this commission of inquiry, a large archive, he knows much, he also has much to do with it, but you have not proposed him as a witness in this commission of inquiry. I think that would be more than necessary. For as a person to whom the coalition, which the Government, Mr Kumer, whom the President of the State trusts him immeasurably, would be more than appropriate to appear before this commission of inquiry as a witness. Even more, he could submit to the Commission of Inquiry and other investigative institutes dealing with this case all the collected evidence he has in this case. That would probably be a public official's duty. For persons, including citizens, we are obliged to submit all those things which expose any crime. In this case, if such suspicions already exist and an indictment is made, this respected journalist should probably do so. Not likely, for sure. There is also no reservation, now that he is an important state official to protect his source because he is no longer a journalist. He's a politician now. He's doing his job now. He's probably been doing some kind of work in politics as a journalist before. It's also necessary to clear these things up somehow. As a result, we have also listened to and immediately proposed a change in this position to the new investigator of the commission of inquiry, Mr Kumr, who is very keen in this story, personally, too. I hope that the coalition will not be reminded again in three weeks that Mr Grims and Mrs Irgle are also right-handed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u65	Mr. Tanko, please finish because you're out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u66	any official in our task force or in our client. [[...]] Such right hands, perhaps someone else has been in some other government, you have more than enough in your sentinel groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really believe that citizens and citizens deserve the truth about Patria, and in particular the judicial truth, which will be one and only in contrast to many political ones. That is why we have already warned in the request for the establishment of an investigative commission that trials against key stakeholders in the Patri affair are ongoing in Slovenia and Finland and that another investigative commission is overstated. However, since the Commission was set up, it is right to act with credibility. This is why we are also reminding you today that the Commission of Inquiry cannot and cannot be the SDS's platform for protecting the image of the inviolability of Ivan Janez Janša, who is the only President of the Government in the Republic of Slovenia against whom an indictment has been filed in our country's court. Mr Zvonko Černač started leading the Commission in this direction. At the first meeting of the Commission of Inquiry, he proved that he had a precise scenario in which he wanted to abuse the work of the Commission, to re-relativise the weight of burdensome evidence and proceedings in progress and to divert attention from the very essence of the affair and to prove before the judgment that the alleged corrupt acts of the visible representatives of the SDS during the reign of Janez Janša were blamed by others and not themselves. In the Group of Members, we strongly reject the allegations that we want the coalition Members to block the work of the Commission by proposing the implementation of the evidence, on the contrary. We want the Commission to act democratically, effectively and crediblely. This will certainly result in Zvonko Černač being a witness in at least three roles, as the former President of the Investigative Commission on the purchase of vehicles 6 x 6 as the President of the Commission on the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, who also dealt with the procedures of the Patri affair in this mandate, as well as as as the SDS Vice-President and the right-hand man Janez Janša, accused in the Patri affair as the president of the party who is to receive an illegal portion of the commission in the course of dealing with Patri. We also believe it is right that, as a witness, Robert Hrovat, who as Vice-President led an investigative committee on armored 8 x 8, after you appointed Milan Squivall as a witness. Since Zvonko Černač did not want to take into account the proposal, the evidentiary decision that we have drawn up at the meeting of the three members of the coalition, the only democratic option remains for us to submit, under Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Investigative Commission, a request for the conduct of investigations. In the Zares Group – a new policy, we will support the proposal to appoint Branko Grims as the new president of the commission of inquiry. We will also support the new alternate member, Mrs Eva Irgle. However, I must make it very clear that we do not support them in the hope or expectation that they will do their work on the Commission more correctly than Mr Chernač, but we will only support them in rejecting all unfounded allegations by the SDS representatives that we wanted to obstruct the work of the investigative commission in any way by proposing an extension of the investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I ask you to carry out this debate in the same way as usual in this National Assembly, not from a bench with a scream on one side or the other. Member Melita Župevc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the spring of 2008, there was a suspension of the president of the commission of inquiry, Mr Milan Martin Cwickl. For two and a half years, the Slovenian Democratic Party had no need, no desire to investigate the Patri case in the parliamentary commission of inquiry. When the charges were filed, there was clearly a panic. The Social Democrats were told that we were stalling because we had proposed to witness the President and also to a member or vice-president of this commission of inquiry. What are we supposed to be stalling with? I don't understand. Obviously, the panic is complete because last Friday this investigative committee met. There is a proposal for a new president at the National Assembly today. We lost exactly four days. I don't understand what the rush is, but if there was no panic for two and a half years, there was no desire to set up this commission of inquiry, because, as you said, we would like to get to the bottom of things. Where have you been for two and a half years? Why did you have to wait until December 23, 2010? Yes, of course I agree with you, the opposition and the press are guilty of buying the Patrician government. The opposition and the press are guilty of being sued. Yeah, that's true. For the last time in the forum, I read a really good record, and I will say it roughly: "In the end, it will be found that Dragos Kos and Milan Squeaked after the Finnish family and that they planted this story for the Finns. And that these naive Finns simply fell for Drago Kos and Milan Martin Squikel." As far as humility is concerned. Which party has already proposed to the chairmen of the witness investigative committees? Which party has already proposed to the members of the investigative committees for witnesses? Without conclusions, without discussion, such as after the hearings of the investigative commissions, there were proposals for members of the investigative commissions to be heard as witnesses. As far as my colleague, Mr Dusan Kumra, as far as I know, is playing a double-eyed "backhand" so you'll have to do a little more research. As for the Hand of the Praetor, you had a president, and now you're going to have a new president. Why aren't they proposing him as a witness? I do not see any objection to inviting Mr Praprotenik to an investigative committee, he is obliged to say everything he knows about this matter if he is a journalist or if he is not a journalist. I agree that things need to be cleared up, but first all open accounts will have to be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm afraid the "new policy" is going to bury you. Because Janez Janša is not the only Prime Minister to have an indictment. Janez Janša is not Prime Minister, he is former Prime Minister. The current Prime Minister, however, is only one, and he is weak. As for Mr. Squeak and the charges that fly. Mr Cwickl was with one of the participants in the Patria affair, it is said, through his current partner, directly linked, because she received fees in that company that was involved in the tender, but was not successful. Mr Milan Cvikl proposed to be an expert on this commission of inquiry a person who was on the supervisory board of that company who was unsuccessful on the call. Thus, in this case, he insisted that this was more than a conflict of interest in the research and parliamentary investigation. This is said to have obviously had a deeper interest, linked both through family activities and through a business arrangement. Therefore, all the conditions were laid down for the President of the Commission of Inquiry in the previous reference, Mr Cwickl, to be proposed as a witness in this procedure because he was obliged to explain the reasons why he did so. In this case, we have nothing of the sort. And once you have seen it, Mr Kumer was President of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services in the previous term, and also in this mandate he is a member of the same commission chaired by Mr Cernač. So, after this interpretation that you have representatives of the New Policy-Zares, Mr Anderlič, Mr Kumer, you are also the ones who should be excluded from this process. You should, because if you listened to Mr Slapnik, this was his main argument why Mr Chernač should be excluded and identified as a witness. In these cases, I think, above all, there is an extremely serious problem in coalition parties, which are inconsistent. This Commission of Inquiry was proposed by the signatories, including all our Members, only because you have not fulfilled the pre-election promises of that period. That's when you all said, too, Mr. Squeakle, that as soon as you get the power, you will break all business arrangements with Patricia. Two years later, nothing happened. You order Patri's armored men, you have them in your battle composition, you send them across the border, and so on. It's happening. Nothing happened at this break in the business arrangement with Patrio. Not then to tell anyone that he's trying to clear up a matter. Patricia is a very big problem mainly for the coalition. That is why, even in this way, this project is being implemented, I do not know, a few weeks after we set up and set up a commission of inquiry, you have proposed the appointment of two members of our parliamentary group. In these few weeks, nothing that you did not know before and at the composition of this commission of inquiry, for which you voted unanimously, has probably happened. What has happened in these few weeks is new in the new policy, but I really want to know. And I am sure that the new members of this commission of inquiry will also be doing just as well as those we originally predicted, be sure of that. And don't worry, we'll also monitor what your next actions will be. And there's one more thing. I have a request here to supplement the evidence. The signatories, Mr Anderlič, Mr Kumer, Mr Slapnik, did not foresee Mr Praprotnik as a witness, you did not foresee him, but gentlemen, he is deeply involved in these matters, and also our Group of Members and those who are proposing, we have proposed to look into open court files, as you suggest, which have so many words, including Mrs Zalokar Orazem, against us being involved in open court files. You asked for this directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have ruled that there has been so much said, too much that does not belong to the consideration of this item on the agenda, and I am merely saying that I support the proposal for the President and his deputy, and I will also support this in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision: we will decide on a proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry, in accordance with the material we have received on the bench. We're moving to the vote. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I therefore note that we have adopted a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, and the members of the Commission in the Patria case. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and thank you for your cooperation. However, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be here in five minutes, at 11:40, I suggest, to continue with the 37th extraordinary session, and I ask that we attend these meetings. Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 23 December 2010 at 11.31 p.m.
