ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Renata Brunskole, Vila Trofenik, Janez Ribič, Franz Pukšič, Dr. Peter Verlič, Marijan Pojbič, Franc Jurša, Roberto Battelli, Iztok Podkrižnik, Rudolf Petan after 4 p.m., Samo Bevk from 17.00 to 7.30 p.m. and Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 24.9.2010. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day - First defence proposal of the law on public financial liability, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u2	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. Slovenia has been in a long time, and this is becoming remarkable now, finding itself in an unenviable position not to say a critical public financial position. If we monitor statistics, i.e. official data, on the revenue of both the wider sector of the country and the state budget, on the expenditure of the state budget, as well as the wider sector of the country, if we look at the deficit we have been creating for some time, both public finances and budgets, if we look at the gross value created in the country measured by GDP, if we look at the number of those who actively contribute to this gross domestic value, i.e. the values created by the economy or by the employees in the sectors that generate value, if we look at the rising public debt, the data is worrying. You could say if you were a bit of an opposition alert. What are the trends ahead? The only bright information we have recorded lately is the quarterly growth of gross domestic product, otherwise the data are also poor and the outlook is even worse. Therefore, several times in the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed the sociability of public finance planners regarding the present and future and the reduction of public finances and the commitment to increase public financial revenues in the future. We're proposing a relatively simple law. We propose limiting the spending of the wider sector of the country according to the ESA 95 methodology in 2010 to 36% of GDP. So we propose linking the expenditure of the wider sector of the country to what was created in the country, to a percentage of what was created in the country, to 46% of what was created in the country. We propose a gradual reduction each year by one percentage point of these expenditure measured in GDP by 2013 to the target of 43% of GDP. We are therefore following a very simple logic that the country binds the expenditure of the wider sector of the country to an absolute value, not to an absolute value, as the Government is now doing. The problem is also that the Government does not adhere to accepted documents, does not adhere to the exit strategy, does not adhere to the Stability and Growth Pact adopted this year or for a period not exceeding one year. Indeed, the exit strategy clearly states that the target deficit of the state budget is 5% of GDP in 2010 to be minus 3.7% in 2011 and minus 2.7% in 2012. Today we can read in the media that yesterday the government adopted state budgets that identified higher deficits, about one percentage point in 2011 and 2012 respectively. The government itself does not take into account those constraints, those strategies that would stabilise public finances, so when we consider the exit strategy, we have yet to say that this is an important document on objectives and that this is an added value in the government's approach to restrict and clearly set objectives. So we propose some reflection and a message from the National Assembly to the government in planning global data in the budget for the next two years, which will be publicly sustainable and will bring Slovenia back to a period when we had stable public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of opinion. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! Allow me to briefly present the Government's opinion on the proposed Law on Public Liability. But I have a little more to say, a little longer to discuss later. The proposal for a Law on Public Financial Responsibility was submitted by a group of Members in the National Assembly. It follows from the accompanying material that the proposed law aims to limit public consumption and the indebtedness of the State. The applicant submits that the two budget deficits announced or adopted in 2010 and 2011 pose a serious threat to the stability of public finances in Slovenia and that the main solution is the law, the limitation of the expenditure of the wider sector of the country to 46% of the gross domestic product. While the applicants note that the government has already adopted a fiscal rule that has set the highest nominal level of expenditure of the State budget, they consider that the objective thus set is overly relaxed and that it is more appropriate to place the ceiling as a percentage of the gross domestic product which is not known for that year, it is only later known. It follows from the draft law that the expenditure of the wider sector of the country under ESA 95 should not exceed 43% of GDP in each financial year and that the rationalisation of expenditure should be carried out on or on the development budget lines. Furthermore, the draft law provides for a transitional period in order to allow the expenditure of the wider sector of the country in 2010 to amount to a maximum of 46% of GDP in 2011 for a maximum of 45% of GDP and in 2012 for a maximum of 44% of GDP, as well as for the Government to prepare a rebalancing of state budgets for 2010 and 2011 within 15 days of the adoption of this Act, and for the new Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011, which sets out in detail the implementation of the provisions of this Act and submits it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption. Initially, it is necessary to clarify that the proposed solutions cannot be supported, since the expenditure of the wider sector includes, inter alia, expenditure from European earmarked resources, expenditure from dedicated state and municipal budgets and all expenditure from funds acquired by budgetary users on the market. In other words, expenditure from the wider sector of the country includes all expenditure from municipalities and indirect users set up by municipalities and all expenditure from European funds. Since the municipalities have been granted autonomy with the Constitution and the law, and because they do not have the resources they receive from the State budget, but also from their own public finances, the adoption of this law could even be constitutionally controversial as they would intervene in the autonomy of the municipalities. It was also not taken into account that it was not possible to draw up a 2010 and 2011 budget rebalance in a manner that would take into account the proposed law's specific level of expenditure of the wider sector, as the rebalancing of the national budget's revenue and expenditure, but not the budgets of the municipalities. In addition to that proposal, the applicants did not take into account that the amount of debt and interest rates is also affected by external factors that cannot be affected by the units of the State sector. It is mainly about the movement of rates and interest rates, as well as the movement of gross domestic product. Therefore, there may be an increase in the value of the debt or a change in the denominator, which is 46% of the gross domestic product. Finally, it should be pointed out that no direct impact on the level of expenditure of the State budget, when adopting each year's budget, has been taken away from the proposal as Members. No special law is required for this purpose, but an investor, an appropriate amendment, can reduce the expenditure of the state budget. In view of the above, it is necessary to establish that the proposed law has been removed from the context and is inconsistent with the remaining public financial legislation and cannot achieve the expected effects and cannot therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. A respected minister with co-workers. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that it is good that today we will talk about the proposal of this law, which is very concrete in some, in Article 2 and also in the transitional provisions, and it gives some direction that should be followed by law or without. We have to say, frankly, to all those who are interested, why today Slovenia has entered the new macro-economic environment by taking over the euro and has not adapted to this by means of public financial policy. The only instrument that is strong enough is public-financial policy, which must be more resistant to the fall of gross domestic product and to the uncertainties and shocks we face in the economic world. We have two documents, a budgetary memorandum and a stability programme, which is probably already slightly reversed, the stability programme in this country is stronger and more precise than the budgetary memorandum, as experts say it should be the other way around, but they are both designed to help consolidate public finances, but neither has any concrete actions developed. Of course, the normal functioning of the country requires stable and sufficiently high, at least in my opinion, more income than expenditure which is essential for the normal functioning of the country, to reduce even the budgetary deficit. Of course, here we ask ourselves whether the state of Slovenia can have such tax legislation that, on the one hand, would burden the economy optimally, of course, for the country to receive some money and the population. On the other hand, it also provided optimal public-financial revenue, of course, which is a condition for optimal financial expenditure. In the last 15 years, Slovenia has had a share of public expenditure if we are now spending around 44% of the gross social product. Despite the relatively rapid economic growth that has succeeded, it has also managed to maintain social cohesion, but there is no convincing theory of the optimal share of public expenditure in this world. We cannot, on the one hand, really say whether 44% of public expenditure, or 43% of public expenditure is good or not, is just an empirical experience. On the other hand, as regards public revenues, it can be concluded that the share of public-financial revenues after the tax cuts we have witnessed has been achieved at around 42% of GDP. On this empirical theory, Slovenia, while maintaining 44% of the share of public expenditure and 42% of public revenues, could maintain a normal financial deficit of about 2% of GDP, which is estimated for the state of Slovenia, despite a slight, 2%, is still unendurable. It is necessary to achieve one that is once again empirically suitable for Slovenia, which is 1% of the GDP deficit. Slovenia could lower its targets or its regulatory share, I say, it is empirically set and is also defined in this bill, that is 43%. At the same time, Slovenia would maintain a dynamic economy and also a cohesive social policy, which is also very important. For all countries, however, most countries are a fundamental starting, fiscal rule that the state spends as much as it has revenue. However, the public financial deficit is also allowed, but due to the need for economic growth in two ways. Or by increasing public spending in the medium-sized country, as Slovenia is supposed to be in Europe, promote economic growth. This should be good at a time when medium-sized countries are catching up to the development of developed countries. Another explanation is that public expenditure is of developmental importance by financing public investments that increase production capacity. Here we all know the so-called golden rule, where it says that the state can have a deficit and I owe it at the level of investment, that is, if investments are 2% of the gross social product, the deficit may be 2% of the gross social product. This golden rule has been applied for a long time and has been a very successful Britain. The weakness of our fiscal objective and our policy is that it is determined by external rules, but this is not related to the domestic economy. The fiscal rules of Slovenian fiscal policy should be based on the Slovenian economy. Although the official Slovenian public financial policy does not apply the fiscal rule on deficit, it consistently implements it and consistently implements it. The 2010 Stability Programme puts the deficit at the heart of the country's public financial consolidation policy. It sets out the task of providing public financial consolidation by 2013. At the same time, we absolutely stress that this consolidation is justified by the requirements of the European Union, but not by the situation in the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian fiscal policy, it does not use the deficit as a means to promote faster growth by accelerating aggregate demand, as a result of catching up with the development of the developed ones. Slovenia will find it very difficult to find a way out by 2015. However, this is one of the conditions for Slovenia to return to some normal degree of governance and life. It's a good thing we're not, and I hope we're not looking for a culprit either. Slovenia has taken over the euro, is aware of this risk and we are where we are. The fact is that the first steps already taken were in the previous mandate, which had a good purpose and objective, a reduction in taxes and could still be listed, without the rule being complied with, on the other hand, on the income side. The fact is, it would be good to have a perfectly normal economic rule that when money is to create a surplus, although it's good that you don't have a deficit, not a surplus, but then create one surplus that you can use when bad times come. But the fact is, we can't and can't look there for reasons for 2010. In 2009 and 2010, a lot of other things happened, independent of what might have been, but it wasn't. And it is high time for Slovenia to actually put some numbers in fact Slovenia to put some numbers for which it will stand, and of course it is necessary to say that everything we feel today, to the great regret, is inevitable. But, inevitably, assuming that it wouldn't have been if it hadn't happened like that, in 2007, we recorded 152 thousand civil servants, the December 2009 data, I'm talking about three years 2007, 2008, 2009 reporting 157 thousand public servants. 152 - 2007 January, 157 thousand civil servants December 2009. The result is today, I'm coming from Kopra, and unfortunately I've seen that there's a lot of damage done to Luka, the roads are already "killed" with trucks that aren't just waiting for Luke to be emptied, the ships are just waiting for unloading, and the workers are promising that the drivers will close Luke with the trucks. The price of such damage that will occur if it lasts for a long time is questionable today and will go beyond the money that public officials are supposed to fight for, while we really need to understand that public servants do not want to pay more, but only want to fulfill their promises. However, it is inevitable that the situation is as it is today. In order to achieve this, this information is contained in this law. I think that the law in the transitional provisions is flexible enough for this country to start doing what it has to do once, and I think it sets some limits that we all have to stick to together, so that we can move on to a state that is recorded in some documents as a situation in 2008. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that such a law can and should be supported by all of us, because we once again call it empirically calculated, but for our economy, it is our common goal and it will also be achieved if we work together to achieve it and respect it. I believe that the government wants to do this without marriage and respect it, but unfortunately, today is in the world and life so that if something doesn't bind you to the law, you don't. Even worse, even if the law binds you, some may be able to violate it abundantly, while others do not violate it, yet they are punished for premeditated, alleged violations. We support the law, and I think it would be right to start with the transitional provisions in the worst case scenario. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to both ministers and coworkers. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we have carefully examined the law and its conclusions are summarised by the idea that, otherwise, the law has good, excellent, positive, optimistic goals in terms of public finances, but has only one small weakness - that it cannot be implemented in practice. He reminds me of the story of my father and my son when my father said, "My son has no school, take a thousand kilograms and carry and run [[?]] ".." The biggest flaw in the law is that, given the gross social product, it determines the expenditure of the wider sector of the country, but it does not offer any effective solutions to how these pious desires can be implemented in practice. Lawmakers themselves well know that much of the budget is conditional on legal obligations and is not possible directly, only with a rebalancing in this or next year to implement measures that achieve legally-defined objectives, namely that the general government expenditure amounts to between 45% and 46% of the gross social product. In doing so, we have also read with particular interest in the explanation of the law that the applicants are exposing current transfers to individuals and households, because this is a growth in particular in 2007-2009 for almost, you will not believe, a billion euro. It is further stated that a reform of social transfers is necessary. In doing so, the applicants themselves implicitly state where the problem is, if we can call it that. In fact, these transfers to individuals in these times of crisis have provided many with easier lives, easier to overcome the crisis. Even in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree that certain rights must be cut down, but this must be done carefully, precisely, thoughtfully. Some measures in this area are already being implemented and mean that the social security system will certainly become more transparent on the one hand, on the other hand more just. In this respect, we agree with reforms in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, but only those who will go in the direction of helping those in need, and not those who are sufficiently resourceful and skilled in this system of social rights. Let's go back to the fiscal rule itself. We would like to emphasise that the Government is implementing measures to stabilise public finances, both short-term and long-term. In particular, the short-term measures are linked to the reduction of expenditure on goods and services, as well as to the expenditure on salaries, which is well illustrated by the graph cited by the bill's proponents. More than a statutory fiscal rule, which cannot be implemented in practice in the current crisis situation, however, there is a need to approach systemic changes or structural adjustments, since they will only allow for medium- to long-term stabilisation of public finances. In doing so, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia would also point out that the logic of budget preparation should be further modified or the development of methodologies for the preparation of targeted or, as we have repeatedly said, development-oriented budgets should be accelerated. As has already been said, we have very little or almost no room for manoeuvre in the budget itself, especially in the face of poor incomes, to implement the country's real priorities. Therefore, we believe that in the coming years it is essential to move significantly faster towards making budgets more flexible and responsive to the situation in the domestic economy and, most importantly, to the global economy. This has certainly taught us, taught us, and I hope that the current economic crisis has also studied. What I would like to say on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club is that if the applicant would like to take a proper and systematic approach to the implementation of the proposed law, he should certainly also put in place package legislation regulating expenditure for individuals and households as well as various transfers. The easiest and easiest thing to do in terms of what is said at the outset is to write down in the six articles what are the objectives and the freedom to commit the Government to take them out after Prešeren. Let's say hypothetically, if the law were to be passed, it is implicitly imposed on the Government to take measures within 15 days, which must also be coordinated with the social partners, and then again here in the National Assembly, by the applicants, to listen to how the legal proposals are not aligned with the social partners and that the laws only because there is no coordination, they will not receive support from them. We can call it "hypocrisis," and we can call it "unseriousness." In order to support this as an example, I say that the salaries of public servants in practice represent slightly more than 29% of the expenditure and another 30% of the transfers to households and only these two segments. What I've already mentioned is that we've already spent 60% of our fixed expenditure on real employees and household transfers. Among other things, it is also necessary to stress, as the government has done in law, that if laws are passed, there will certainly be a major legal system problem in the congregations. The Constitution and the law grant undisputed autonomy to all Slovene municipalities. This means that the municipalities themselves have their own public financial resources. Therefore, it is impossible to interfere with this right without adequate constitutional or legal changes, or, if I simplify it, the law which, of course, prescribes this is impractical in practice. In the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that fiscal stability is at the heart of the country's long-term successful development and therefore we strongly agree with the proponents that there is a need for strong discipline and consistency in this area. However, since we believe that the law is not adequately prepared or that it does not provide for currently feasible solutions, and in particular it is not in line with the rest of the public financial legislation, we are certainly of the uniform opinion that the law is not suitable for further procedure and treatment. On the other hand, the law by the opposition can be seen positively as supporting the opposition's efforts by the government and the coalition in structural adjustments, which will largely respond to the fiscal consolidation that is certainly ahead of us in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u10	Respected and respected. The responsibility to public finances seems to be a fundamental divide between the coalition and the opposition. We therefore call on the biggest opposition party to understand stable public finances as our necessary common objective, without which we are fundamentally threatening opportunities for progress and recovery. This call was addressed to the opposition almost a year ago by the Social Democrats. From the bill before you today, it can be understood that our call has fallen to fertile ground. We Social Democrats are happy about this. Since assuming responsibility for running the country in this House, we stress the need for greater accountability to public finances, especially with all those opposition proposals that have either reduced public finances or increased spending. We understand stable public finances as basic infrastructure, the condition of the synne quantum, for the functioning of the country, the economy and the whole community. The experience of some countries, such as Greece, clearly shows that we must do everything possible to remedy the public financial situation. This is not a new position either, but a quote from our positions on the February exit strategy this year when the opposition told us that we were only interested in resolving public finances. The opposition in the bill to our government is clear about a mixed financial and economic policy and claim that we are not up to the situation. Therefore, we are pleased that the opposition has also recognized the importance of public financial responsibility, regardless of the differences in terms of the proposed law, this may promise that cooperation in shaping the future Slovenian economic policy will be much easier in the future. "Slovenia has avoided the financial crisis.", this is as early as November 2008, when Slovenia was already deep in recession," said Janez Janša. Similar denial of social and economic reality has also been expressed by other leading people of the current opposition. In December 2008, for example, when Slovenia had already experienced a rapid decline in economic activity, the former Minister of Economy said boldly: "Slovenia is not and will not be in recession." I know you're tired in the opposition because we often remind ourselves of the legacy of the former government. But economic movements are not a time-consolidated process, but an interaction of different circumstances that significantly exceed the events of one year alone. That is why we cannot go beyond what you have left behind, because this essentially determines our ability to deal effectively with the economic crisis. Slovenia has indeed experienced record economic growth during the previous government, which has been fuelled by low value-added industries at the expense of high external debt. During this time, reforms were not needed in order for Slovenia to expect the crisis to be better prepared, with adequate reserves. However, the reserves of the golden age of high economic growth were not created. Moreover, the former government has only created obligations without adequate financial coverage. Expenditure on the consolidated public sector balance sheet increased by as much as 34% between 2004 and 2008. The European Commission's report also shows that the previous government left a significantly worse state of public finances than it was handed over in 2004. As a result of the crisis and inadequate fiscal decisions in the past, the revenue side has reduced government revenue by more than 3% of gross domestic product, while public financial revenues are growing slower in the long term by around 1.5% than they would have grown without the effects of the crisis. I suggest that you take these circumstances into account when interpreting the state of public finances vehemently. We therefore expected the start of the crisis in poor condition. In the proposed law, you call on us to encourage the economic activity of all active entities with fiscal and direct incentives, particularly those who have the power and the will to create in times of crisis. That's what we do. We do this all the time. Slovenia has also shown weak but important signs of economic recovery since the middle of last year due to the actions of our government, especially economic and entrepreneurship. Industrial production growth followed growth in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 even in the first half of this year, similar to gross domestic product growth. Of course, the Slovenian economy has some strong structural weaknesses, and there are also great differences between industries and their ability to recover. We have major problems in sectors where we are facing the devastating effects of economic policy in the previous period. Too much liberal debt, which is reflected in the great weaknesses of Slovenia's largest banks, in construction where we try to replace the built-in real estate balloon at home by opening new markets, as well as in other sectors where we face a lack of economic competitiveness, because politicians in the previous period of growth, therefore, did not promote development, but provided funding, again at the expense of debt, a second phase of privatisation, which we now call takunisation. Thus, the created accumulation did not create a new value but tried to concentrate ownership in the hands of the elite. The economic crisis has prevented these intentions. However, our government has left behind a number of structural weaknesses of the Slovenian economy. At the beginning of the crisis, the government took a series of measures to remedy the public financial situation, to stabilise the financial and banking markets and to help the people affected by the crisis. Let's just say some. Guarantees for food deposits, for loans on the international banking market, for loans to companies, for loans to natural persons, for measures on the labour market that have successfully curbed the rise in unemployment and the increase in funds for these measures by EUR 183 million, which means twice as much in 2008. Subsidies for technology centres, research and development and competitiveness, the increase in the assets of the Enterprise Fund, including the venture capital fund, the European Investment Bank’s loans for development investments in the automotive cluster and development investments totalling more than EUR 500 million, all of which represents a total volume of measures of EUR 850 million, if we fail to take into account the guarantees we have made to start economic activity. The government has therefore reacted to the rapid deterioration of economic and public finances through an expansion fiscal policy aimed at increasing competitiveness on the one hand and the necessary measures to combat the increase in unemployment, thus creating a multiplier effect of 4.7% of GDP in 2009. Moreover, our government has by its actions prevented the breakdown of the financial system and the collapse of the social security system in its entirety and thus significantly more courageous the consequences the country and the community and the economy could face. The proposed law is clear to us that the growth of current transfers has taken place solely on the basis of an increase in transfers to individuals and households, which has increased by a billion euros from 2007 to 2009. Of course, social democrats are proud of this orientation. Because we have increased aid to people to maintain a relatively high level of social cohesion and, despite the economic and financial crisis, reduced the risk of poverty. With these measures, we have prevented the economic and financial crisis from spilling into the collapse of the social state and the spread of poverty. This script wasn't far back then. But today we can confidently say that we stopped him. Are we therefore satisfied with the social picture of Slovenian society? No, no, no. Definitely not. In doing so, however, we cannot go beyond the fact that Slovenian social reality could be significantly different and significantly worse without such socially oriented measures. In doing so, let us recall that we have already implemented the reform of transfers in the social field, in which the opposition has called upon us by means of a law on the enforcement of rights from public resources, in order to ensure better targeting of social transfers, that they will be made available to the maximum extent possible to those who actually need them and that the possibility of their accumulation and abuse will be reduced. In doing so, however, we stress that the social structure of Slovenian society can only be improved by a more competitive and innovative economy that will be able to supply greater prosperity and security for people. This is the period and measures of our economic policy. Among other things, a guarantee scheme with 75% guarantees for companies, for investments, the realisation of investments in the third and fourth development axes, the realisation of investments in social protection, especially long-term care, both through public private partnership. The active work of economic diplomacy with guarantees for large export transactions, to open new markets to the Slovenian economy and to spread a great deal of dependence on European markets, which in the perspective of a relatively low rate of growth. At the same time, a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the country, rationalisation of the country with better organisation and greater efficiency. Finally, fiscal measures such as the fiscal rule and changes in budgetary and development planning are both better and programme-oriented towards achieving the objectives. At the same time, in some cases our government has developed mechanisms for rapid and effective action on exposed economic patients, which is a good case, for example, Prevention, as well as the effects of the pilot law on Pomura, which we will also translate into changes in the area of regional development. We keep reminding the importance of public financial responsibility, and we also carry it out through our actions. Our government exercises this public financial responsibility in all major public financial documents, from the exit strategy, the Stability Pact and every annual budget. In doing so, we point in particular to the new Regulation on development planning documents and to the preparation of a budget setting out a specific formula for setting the ceiling for public financial expenditure. This rule takes into account the current macroeconomic and fiscal policy and position, as well as the target, which must be in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. Slovenia therefore already has an instrument to set the ceiling for public financial expenditure for the current year and for the next three years. Therefore, it cannot be argued that the limits of the fiscal rule are too loose. [[Dear Mr President, the opposition is very amusing.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u11	listen carefully. [[...]] Please. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u12	We cannot adopt the proposed law, even for other reasons, such as taking into account expenditure from European earmarked resources between the expenditure of the wider sector, the state, disregarding the autonomy of local communities, as part of the wider sector of the country, and the inability to influence certain external factors that the country cannot directly influence in its operations. For this reason, we believe that a more appropriate mechanism for setting the maximum limit on public spending is a formula already adopted that can better take these external factors into account and integrate them into the targeted public financial policy. At the same time, our government has also adopted a stability programme, which foresees a gradual reduction in deficits by 2013 below 3% of GDP. Let us also recall Slovenia's commitments at European level to strengthen fiscal policy coordination within the European Union and to increase the discipline to respect fiscal rules at European level. Like the introduction of a European semester. The opposition today proves that we do not adhere to the stability programme, that we do not stick to our own commitments, for example, because for 2011 the stability programme envisaged 4.2% of the deficits and yesterday the budget adopted provides for 4.5% of the deficits. Mr. Visjak said about a percent. The difference between 4.5 and 4.2 is 0.3, which is not approximately a percentage. If the numbers are already flat-lined, let's say it's about nothing. We are doing our best to ensure the stability and sustainability of public finances by restructuring budgetary expenditure in the last year, focusing on available resources, economic recovery and social cohesion. Last but not least, by controlling public finances and by trying to achieve a wage freeze in the public sector and by presenting the harmonisation owed to public officials by the State. As you can see, we have a problem with this, and therefore an important part of the public sector of the sentence. We express our understanding of their views, but at the same time we urge them to end this sentence, return to the negotiating table and start to take account of the economic and social reality in which Slovenia is located. This is the best way to get what belongs to them in the foreseeable time when the economic condition of our national economy will allow it. This National Assembly shall adopt all the key public financial documents led by the budget as the central financial document of the State. Let us not forget, therefore, that in this Chamber, we have all the mechanisms to set the objectives of public financial policy and by adopting the budget, we set limits on the expenditure of the country. Responsibility is not demonstrated by the adoption of a law or an individual rule; responsibility is demonstrated by the continuous responsible conduct aimed at the welfare of the country and citizens and the long-term security and stability of our community. Social Democrats remain firmly committed to this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as part of our proposals, we have repeatedly proposed to the Government that public spending should be linked to what has been created, i.e. to a gross domestic product, thereby preventing the erosion of public finances that we have witnessed, clearly, in the last year. To these proposals, and to this day, the government has identified the rejection, says that such a proposal is not good and that it is sufficient to limit public spending in some absolute amount, irrespective of what it is created. With known data, with a substantial reduction in our gross domestic product in the last two years, which has decreased by a tenth, it will take several years to get to where we once were not so long ago. Allow me a few words, given my predecessor's expressed thoughts on where Slovenia is in 2010, on the threshold of 2011 and why we are coming to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group again with this proposal, this time in the form of a law. Approximately €2 billion per year is the gap between the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. Thus, in 2009, in 2010 and a similar forecast awaits us, in line with what the government has recently adopted for 2011. I think it's a billion 800, a billion 900, a billion 700. In short, about two billion are spent more annually than is available. If there were no good balance between the past government, we could not have done so. If they were not public finances, when they were taken over at the end of 2008 stable, and if they hadn't been compensated for cash all the years before, even with surplus in individual years, then they would not be able to do so today. And just because you owe yourself enormously, in the last two years this debt has increased by more than twice, this country can function. And it's going to work for a while, because it was a good, solid foundation, but eventually someone's going to have to pay for it. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this must not happen, that public finances need to be recovered earlier and that spending should be provided only to the extent that we are able to do so. Those who spoke about the statements made by the current opposition at the end of 2008 that Slovenia could avoid the crisis, as other countries had suffered, forgot to say that these statements were based on the adoption of appropriate measures, timely measures, which unfortunately were not available. If, at that time, in October, November and December 2008, other measures were taken, not only those which you have taken and which have ensured the stability of the banking system in particular, then Slovenia could certainly have avoided this crisis and the fall of the gross domestic product would not have been as great as it was. In doing so, you have forgotten the statement made by your Prime Minister, Mr. Pahor, on March 2nd for this speaker - March 2, 2009, be careful! - when it represented the 2009 budget rebalancing and talked about how Slovenia will grow by 1.2% in 2009. At the time of the 2009 rebalancing, your prime minister said that the gross domestic product in Slovenia would increase by 1.2% in 2009, and on this basis you also accepted the rebalancing. On the same day, data came that there would be a drop of almost 10%. One more word about borrowing. During the previous term of office, the State limited its debt, reduced it and, of course, increased its indebtedness to the economy and the population. The economies are also responsible for so-called managers' buyouts, but who is responsible for this segment? Is this segment the responsibility of the government, any government? It's not! The Bank of Slovenia is responsible. Behind me, I hope that there is still a former Governor, Mr Gaspari, who was responsible for this enormous increase in loans to the economy for the purpose of the buy-ins at the time as governor. So what is the law that we are proposing in the legislative procedure: it sets limits on public spending and limits on State indebtedness. In such a way that the expenditure of the wider sector of the country, which now accounts for almost 50% of what the country creates annually, is limited to a maximum of 43%, gradually by 2013. The law also provides that the Government must not interfere with the development agenda, i.e. not with the investment and development work, but with non-development projects. Simply put, it must limit the costs and non-productive part of the consumption. Of course, the ruling - we have heard this in the views of some parliamentary groups - immediately raised the question of how to do it, and the obvious that we are entering a populist law and not saying how and how to cut public spending. That's not true. In the proposals so far, we have repeatedly discussed how, how, how and which spending should be limited. We also said how we see an increase in revenue, in what way. And it is not unknown that the conceptually ruling opposition disagrees with you because you are increasing taxes, but we believe that they should be reduced to allow for economic growth. Clearly, then, Pahor’s government does not listen to us or listen to us. The Prime Minister himself said a while ago that 50% of the employees in public administration were too many. Prime Minister Pahor said this at a meeting of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, he then expressed applause, and although this statement was more populism than any opposition could afford, no one asked him if it was true why the number of employees in the public administration in his mandate had increased by 3,000. The prime minister also announced a time ago that it would reduce the number of ministries. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcomed this announcement. And what happened? Every day we witness the establishment of some new agencies, parastatal institutions, from the Agency for the Management of Public Property to that for the management of real estate, then we get the Agency for Public Procurement, in the legislative procedure there is already a law on some real estate fund, and a new Agency for the Control or Safety of Transport with two parastatal institutions in this area, and so on, not to mention. All of these will, of course, have directors, administrations, employees, additional costs, no impact, no more effective management and management at a time when it is necessary to cut into public consumption. Of course, Pahor's government would have saved a lot if it had been more cost-effective, and it was only on Falcon, which is still standing, that it lost over a year and a half million euros in assets that are not effectively managed anymore. The Pahor's government would be able to save enormously if it were to maximise the cost per budget consumer allocated to its operations. Instead, new and new premises are being rented, as officials are becoming more and more, and in one case the government is even so good that they pay the lease to the private. So instead of limiting costs, spending is increasing. The expenditure of the State budget, which was around €8 billion in 2008, has also increased and will increase in the coming years or will be limited to around €10 billion. The data show that the debt of the state budget is increasing, and in these days it has exceeded 12 billion euros. And with this irrational and uneconomic behaviour, with millions of euros being wasted, the government expects an understanding of pensioners, most of whom do not have 500 euros in pensions, and a union in understanding those who have lost their jobs because of their inefficiency in recent years, and some markets. If we look at this year's semi-annual implementation of the state budget, this is catastrophic. The comparison shows that in the first half of this year, and I compare this year's first half with last year's first half, so that there is no misunderstanding, the revenue for the same period is less than EUR 120 million in the same period last year than it was for the same period. Last year, the deficit amounted to a billion euro in the first half of the year. By the way, in 2008 the surplus was €110 million in the first half of the year and this year it is already €320 million in deficit. Where activities could be increased, especially in the field of or at the drawing up of European funds, decommissioned procedures do not allow operational approval of projects. The exception, of course, is only the Ljubljana Mayor, where the invitation to tender can be completed within a month from publication to election, and in other cases procedures run after six months or more. The Pahor government, in its rejection of this law, which we have tabled in the legislative procedure, says, inter alia, that there is no doubt that the Government is also pursuing the objective of reducing the expenditure of the wider sector of the country. With what? I've read earlier the data that deny this statement, deny it, and the consumption has literally gone mad. The limitation of government spending is justified by the new regulation adopted in June this year, which also sets out a fiscal rule setting the ceiling for public financial expenditure, which is determined by a specific formula. However, this calculation does not take into account the fact that what the public sector can spend depends on what the economy creates. And that's the content of our law. Therefore, its rejection by the Government is illogical and unfounded, especially in situations where the government should show a serious purpose in saving. And, of course, the table should clean up the various clienteleistic rentals of premises that it does not need, where it was not about the interests of the State, but about the interests of individuals who would thus be unjustifiably enriched, just because they are in friendly relations with Pahor's authority. At the table, this government should clean up various Falcons and establish new unnecessary agencies and parastatal institutions and come before trade unions with a clear picture of how and when this country will emerge from the public financial crisis. And we firmly believe that in such a case, we would come across an understanding of the representatives of the employees. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to help the Government control public spending through this law. The adoption of this law would be a clear indication that the Government of the Restriction on Excessive Consumption has gone to the right end and will first cut itself off in the face of unnecessary and excessive expenditure. The signal that the Government would send to the public through more efficient work and better public resources management would allow better coordination with the social partners, a stronger and cheaper state would relieve the economy, in short, the effects would be positive for all. The rejection of this law by the Pahor government means that the government is still unaware of the seriousness of the situation, that it is not prepared to do anything about their rehabilitation and stabilisation, and that it wants the burden of responsibility for the situations that have arisen to others. In this case, we are unionists and employees in the public sector, who already do not enjoy a great reputation in the eyes of the public. That is why the responsibility of the government is even greater, because it is Pahor's government that is to blame and no one else is to blame, because it is not timely and responsible for the changing situation in the global market. Instead of taking advantage of this situation for rationalisation, the transformation of the public sector into an efficient and rational service for citizens, on the one hand, in the most difficult circumstances, it allowed for additional employment, established new para-national institutions, did nothing for the more cost-effective and rational functioning of public services, and, on the other hand, wanted to exclude a large number of those from social dialogue, which also depended on the further development of Slovenia. The Pahor government rejects dialogue and all good proposals solely because they come from its opinion that they are clearly wrong. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the law and its further legislative procedure, and we propose that the government reconsider its position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors is indeed to be moved by Alojzija Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u16	Your Honor! Today's extraordinary meeting of the Borut Pahor's government is seen as leading a mixed financial and economic policy, and it has apparently fallen short of the situation. Proposals further propose a limit on public spending and the country's indebtedness to 46% of gross social product in 2010 for each coming year, and expenditure will be reduced by 1% in 2013 and beyond, following the ESA 95 methodology, to reach the expenditure of the wider sector of the country at a maximum of 43% of gross social product. The transformation of the proposer is amazing. The applicants therefore argue that Slovenia has entered the crisis in relatively small condition and that due to the inefficient and slow action of the government of Borut Pahor, Slovenia, gross social product has further fallen. However, as there were no effective measures to reduce the expenditure of the wider sector of the country, the proportion of these expenditure was measured as a percentage of gross social product disproportionately. May I remind you, Your Honor, of one of the most resounding messages of the previous government. Slovenia has never been such a successful country in its history. And one of the then vice presidents of the party prophetically predicted that the Golden Age had begun in Slovenia. Unfortunately, it ended quickly and infamously. It's been two years since the Lehmans went to the history dump and also symbolically marked the time we're currently in. Otherwise, things have happened before. In the summer of 2007, the European Central Bank had already warned against the financial crisis. The Governor of Banka Slovenije, Kranjec, describes in this way the summer of 2007 as a reminder, quote: "To my great surprise and to the surprise of everyone else, the financial crisis then erupted to a full extent in August 2007. On 9 August 2007, at an emergency meeting, the European Central Bank decided to supply financial markets with a large amount of liquidity." It was 95 billion euros. Since then, the ECB has been primarily concerned with the question of how to get out of the crisis. End of story. In the fall of 2008, when you completed your government's mandate, the chief economist Deutsche Bank Norbert Walter then announced the following, the recession in the old world, namely the United States of America, Europe and Japan, could no longer be avoided; many things went wrong. At that time, everything was done in Slovenia to reduce the public's public awareness of the problems we are witnessing today due to the financial and economic crisis. Even then, after you completed your term of office, the Minister of Economic Affairs insisted that Slovenia would not go into recession. Behavior, as the Chinese say in Hitchk's suspension. The latter is most vividly described by the film scene that is in danger at the door of the apartment, while the tenants continue to act as if nothing is happening. And that's exactly what happened. So the crisis has been knocking on the world and on our doors since 2007, and it has been calm and relaxed. The journey was deceptive. Today, it is most illustrated by the statements of the public sector trade unions. If wage reform were more prudent and did not limit itself to public finances during the recession, most of the reasons for today's extraordinary meeting would probably have fallen away, and there would have been many different reasons for today's extraordinary meeting outside this hall. Otherwise, this reform will undoubtedly go into history and textbooks on public finances. Thus, nothing has been completely gifted in the new Slovenian government since the beginning of the mandate. In addition, it had to deal with the financial and economic crisis immediately. In our opinion, the government responded sufficiently early and with measures taken by the other Member States. Otherwise, you should be aware that the public financial deficits of all the Member States of the European Union have increased because governments have introduced and some are still introducing large-scale aid packages to help their economies. It is true, however, that many governments in Europe have now begun to introduce a sharp austerity measure in the light of the debt crisis, which has been triggered mainly by a strong indebted Greece, in order to reduce their deficits. Under the Stability and Growth Pact, government deficits must move below the limit of 3% of gross domestic product. I think that our government is also pursuing the objective of reducing public financial expenditure and has already taken a number of measures to ensure public financial stability while ensuring the necessary measures to bring about the economic crisis. To this end, the Government has also set the amount of expenditure for 2012 and 2013, which is linked to domestic resources. The establishment of a ceiling on budgetary expenditure means the beginning of fiscal consolidation, which Slovenia is obliged to carry out in order to ensure the stability of its own fiscal and economic policy and system, and to follow the requirements of the Eurosystem. The fiscal rule takes into account the current macroeconomic and fiscal position, as well as the target, which must be in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. The government already has an instrument or fiscal rule setting the ceiling for public expenditure for the current year and for the next three years. Public spending will be limited upstream by the growth of gross social product and additional expenditure growth will be limited if our public debt and budget deficit exceed certain targets. At the speed of reaching the latter, the government retained a certain discretionary right. We now have a large budget deficit, which, by fiscal rule, would lead to a restrictive fiscal policy, which could be further reduced, it is also reasonable to allow a framework for achieving the goal. It is also interesting that even in 2006, two years before the so-called financial crisis, some experts proposed a fiscal rule to limit public finances, but the then government did not see the need to introduce something similar into the budget planning process. It's too late to ring the bell. We will not support the bill, but we would like to point out in the Group of Members that economic theory, as well as practice, does not have the right answer to the question of what is the growth or share of public spending, and what is the share of the country's indebtedness. The number of factors affecting public consumption growth and public debt cannot be incorporated into a simple model. All theories are based on empirical verifications, which depend on the time we check them. And this time, our time is special, because we have witnessed the second worst global financial and economic crisis in the last hundred years. In this way, the candidates for the extraordinary meeting, as well as the Government, would like to remind them that both economic growth and public spending and debt cannot be determined by law or regulation. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . We can set projections and correct them and adjust them to the actual situation. The futures can vary, as social and economic development is unpredictable, despite our wishes and promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Budget revenue is falling from month to month from 2008 and expenditure is rising sharply. As a result, the budget deficit is on the rise. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been drawing attention to the overexpenditure of the public sector since we have been discussing budgets and budgets in this mandate. At the time of the adoption of the 2010 budget rebalancing in July, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development also noted that the proposed 2010 budget rebalancing does not provide for any interference with expenditure with more systematic measures, but only means harmonising expenditure with lower estimated revenues and thus will not contribute to the consolidation of public finances this year. The rebalancing was largely based on the flow of European funds and on the increase in excise revenue. In both of our incomes, we were very skeptical in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We are still assessing that Slovenia will not draw on all the European funds provided for by the rebalancing as revenue. Why do we think that? Because there is not much going on in the area of European funds. There are no benefits to new projects, especially those from a few years ago. However, we will soon say more about this at any committee or State Assembly meeting when it is on the agenda. So let's look at the current data. In the first eight months of the year, the deficit has already been 1.4 billion euros. According to the balance sheet, only €400 million can be increased in the remaining four months. Will this work for us? Not according to the data and forecasts of the statistical office. In its country deficit and debt report, the statistical office predicts 2.1 billion deficits, which is 0.9% more than budget rebalancing. So, 5.8% deficit. Now what? Virtually all measures and all financial resources so far have focused on the so-called social area. Economic development has been put in the background. The Slovenian economy is struggling with problems, with the current burdens of the established social peace, it will no longer be possible to maintain it for a long time. We have a feeling that government things are somehow getting out of hand. For some time, government has been forecasting systemic reforms, reform of the health system, reform of the pension system, reform of labour legislation, saving the public sector - if I only list the most important. We are all aware that without these reforms there is no way out of the economic crisis. And what is the situation in these areas? Savings in the public sector - you have already given in to doctors, public sector - sentence. Reform of labour legislation - the pressure of trade unions has been removed from the agenda. The pension reform - before you were able to complete it, all trade unions in Slovenia announced mass protests. Reform of the health system - for once in a public debate. The country is currently trapped in one of the biggest sentences in its youth history. Notwithstanding the agreement or disagreement as to the eligibility of the sentence, the reasons for it are clear. It's just a bunch of problems that no one can solve. Instead of positively reducing wages by reducing the number of employees in public administration, the number of employees in this mandate has increased by several thousand. And then you wonder why such mistrust and opposition to the freezing of wages. The bill before us is unusual, but according to everything, it makes sense and justifiable. Where there is no personal and other responsibility, coercion is required. Coercion in the form of a law that will limit the expenditure of the state by principle: Spend as much as you have. Not according to the established principle: Spend as much as you need. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian political space, there is no need for responsibility and awareness that such fiscal policy that we are implementing is leading us to fail, such a law is welcome and necessary. In the Slovenian People's Party, we give him all the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Member of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable Minister with co-workers. I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on public financial liability. The bill's proponents believe that the Borut Pahor government, I quote, "leads a completely confused financial and economic policy and is obviously out of line with the new situation". Such words could be used to guide the rapids from all countries facing the financial and economic crisis of the global criterion and to try to resolve the resulting fiscal situation at home in a variety of ways and in most cases in all cases and aspects of the population's adverse measures. The fact is that finding a proper and effective way of overcoming the consequences is not exactly ferocious coughs, and countries are actively pursuing financial stability processes, including social Europeans, under the auspices of the Union's common fiscal policy. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that the crisis hit seriously already in 2008 before the Borut Pahor government. However, experts have pointed to its potential in advance and in time for preventive action. At that time, at a time of extremely favourable economic growth, nothing has been done in this country that is simply saved in the event of bad times, to say the least. The curve of current expenditure and current transfers can be said to constantly maintain its inclination, regardless of which ruling coalition has dictated the public financial policy of the Republic of Slovenia in recent times. I cannot help but overlook the cross-cutting interpretation of the proposal for an increase in current transfers to the account, despite the crisis of an exceptional increase in transfers between individuals and households in 2007 and 2009. Proposalers in the social field therefore want to reform their mandate, but in the parliamentary group we are aware of how worrying it is, despite the positive trend in economic growth, the state of public finances at this time. In this mandate, which coincides with the unfavourable economic and financial market situation, the Government adopted a fiscal rule setting the budgetary ceiling to allow for the controlled growth of public financial expenditure and, consequently, the medium-term achievement of a balanced public financial balance that is independent of the cyclically conditioned movement of public financial revenues. In this respect, it has taken and implemented a series of measures to ensure public financial stability and measures to mitigate the effects of the crisis, i.e. in the expenditure budget direction. However, despite the fact that the Government has followed the recommendations of international institutions, it is clear that not all these measures have been liked so far. Expecting amendments to the legislation to be made to make appropriate changes on the income side of the budget, such as taxation of capital, profit, luxury, for example, are, in our opinion, the key ones that still need to be realized so that this government can look in the eyes of all those who have already been cut off in rights and, as it appears, intends to do so again. In the Group of Members, we believe that it is reasonable and necessary for public financial policy to be formulated with all due care to all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. In such a way as to ensure public financial stability through the sustainability of the public treasury, but at the same time with a fair and equitable distribution of the burden of the crisis between all layers of society. Although the law is not bad for its purpose. The intention to limit public spending and state debt is certainly necessary, but the proposal is incomplete, as it does not stem from an integrated system and legal picture of the public financial area. Since it is expected that the expected and desired objectives in the field of limiting public consumption and indebtedness of the State will not be met, we cannot say in the DeSUS Group that the text of this bill is appropriate. And to conclude: With a good summer, a good master fills up his jaws to make it easier to survive the times of the so-called dry cows. Has this been done in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The Minister of Finance Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I expect slides will also appear on the slides. Now I have decided before the High Council to take this opportunity, because I have been given quite a bit of time - I also needed quite a few negotiations to fight this time - to present to you aspects of public financial stability before, during and after the financial crisis. If we first look at the state of the long-term economic cycle, I have to say in this regard that I will rely on the theory, view or coordination system of the evolutionary school of economic thought, which inspires the works of Joseph Schumpeter, but developed in the 1970s, observing what happens to both oil shocks, then, and the change of management associated with the fall of oil as a key factor. In this context, economic science and this economic school - Nelson and Winters - were the authors of the book, with which this school then began, the book was called "The Evolutionary School of Economic Forth". Here, in fact, it came to light, or based on inspiration from part of Joseph Schumpeter, that technology began to be understood as part of management as part of the economic system. And in these technologies, too, the dominant solutions that last for a while and then eventually change. For each of these long-term cycles, we are currently aiming at so-called information or flexible technologies based on the chip, as a basic factor, at a specific accumulation regime, which is said to be a special savings regime and a special way of economic regulation, the government is said to be, or one that rules at national economic level, before today [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] elected governments mainly have different options and different levers to influence the economy. [[...]] At the same time, different baskets of goods are placed, different goods are important for the standard of living, and these goods are also produced by different technologies. At the current short-term cyclical trends in the world, I, too, estimate that this financial crisis is actually one of the short-term cycles, otherwise very deep, strong, but of a short-term nature. These cycles are in a modern paradigm, a technological paradigm, it is said, in a modern mode of management, which is flexible and based on information, technologies, they first appeared in 1987. The crisis, the 1987 stock market crisis, the collapse of the New York Stock Exchange, was the first crisis based on the computerisation of securities prices, there was a very strong explosion in this market, but then monetary and fiscal policy prevented any impact of this crisis on the American and later global economies. So it turns out that politics has its levers, that it can regulate such swings. If these levers have not been used or if a sufficiently large imbalance has been created before, then the financial crisis will follow. The financial crisis may be either monetary or directly financial. The currency crises are known. Most profoundly, the most painful was the Argentine, due to the fixed-term fixed-rate regime. There are others, and this Greek is, in fact, a kind of currency crisis, which is taking place within the euro and must therefore be saved by savings, with public financial savings. Another possibility is that development policy mistakes are taking place. We saw this, for example, in Serbia, in Russia, Jelcin's policy was something that led to disinvestment, which is not interesting, or a mistake in energy policy, which eventually leads to an electric eclipse. These are some of the specifics of management in the area of which you decide for a very long time, the investment horizon, and if this is not the case, if there is a short-term decision-making of owners, then the lack of supply, which after some cobweb, has only two or three years of impact on improvement of the offer. The most famous of these crises was California, electric. The first was in New Zealand as a result of the liberalisation of the electricity market without adequate regulation. Today we are in a period of one such short-term, downwards, which is due to errors in the US's budgetary and foreign trade policies, but it has moved on, a little bit more about this later, to the whole world. What a short-term accumulation regime. It is characteristic of saving, which is increasingly long-term in nature. In this context, financial products and special institutions, which, in part, also economies and other economic operators, are being set up around the world, say, the system is globalising and at the same time increasingly intertwined, so that systemic risk is taking place around the world. Systemic risk means that the break of a single major player in this market is caused by a large bank or some large investment fund to lead to major economic disruptions in the wider environment and can actually be transferred to the whole world. It is interesting to note that the transfer of these effects, in particular in the Russian crisis, has been seen, is partly direct through creditor-credit relations, guarantees and the like, and partly simply because of the way the economy reacts, where information is so large, simply because of the impact on expectations that similar economies or similar entities will find themselves in similar difficulties, there will be a flight of capital without any real reason to go elsewhere and then there will be a wider fracture, which is not directly related to economic relations, with some economic relations, but only with similarity. Thus, modern management is based on expectations, and these expectations have also proved to be very fatal in the economic crisis. It is interesting, or even more important, at systemic risk, that countries in the modern world avoid this risk through increased regulation. We have regulators both in banking, insurance, in the securities market, and regulators are strongly intertwined. Thus, the integration of regulators is essentially in the spirit of time and inevitable and is expected to increase further. So bringing regulators together at European level is practically just a matter of years to come, when it will be fully united. Investments are now partly dependent on development policy. This is where four competing models developed. In the United States, it promotes investment in new technologies, mostly through public procurement, mainly through military procurement. A typical example of development on this basis is the whole computer technology, today, for example, also satellite navigation, probably in the future we can expect the use of night observation sensors in traffic and so on. The European model is based on the co-financing of research and development up to a certain percentage, so that the risk is borne by the investor and thus encourages the upgrading of technologies that have developed or are beginning to develop. This proved to be particularly strong in the automotive industry, in the production of fast trains, in the production of mobile phones, mobile phones and so on. He certainly proved to be competitive, but he is very different from the American. It is also based on our potential for state aid. The third is the Japanese model, which is "Economy of Scope", says to focus strongly on development incentives for individual projects, such as, for the whole fun electronics, video recorders, digital telephony and so on. Here they combine the work of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Industry with an economic chamber and a banking system. In some areas they have failed, but above all they have a major problem because this model has to be based on export demand and requires a very low exchange rate. As soon as the exchange rate of yen increased, or when it only hit the world market, the model was in trouble. And the latest is an Irish-Chinese model based on technology imports. In Ireland, it has proved to be unsustainable, but in China we will see whether they are only capable of getting beyond ideas and technologies from other parts of the world and taking the initiative themselves or are likely to end up like the Irish, although with a larger market and their economic tradition they have more opportunities to succeed and become the generators of development themselves. The modern input, the output of the coefficients resulting from the development decisions, must be mentioned that today is a matter of digitisation of most products and processes. The competitiveness of individual, say, financial institutions competing in the financial market, insurance companies, banks, investment funds are largely based on their information infrastructure. Supply and demand are globalisation, and companies operating in this market are also globalisationd. And in this context, a ruthless and very intense international developmental match with mercantilism is developing. And the main lever of this mercantilism, the real attempt to create as much surplus as possible, is the exchange rate. The final result, however, is greater employment at home and unemployment abroad, not just accumulations of reserves, although the reserves also move to where the mercantilist measures achieve the greatest success. Of course you can defend yourself with that. It is possible to defend itself by anti-dumping and I think it will come to the table in the European Union as soon as possible. He's already in the United States. In part, there is also the possibility of tax relief, which today would be interpreted as unlawful state aid. With the economic crisis, this tax sky has been discredited and it is expected that the international community will nevertheless react and limit the possibility of such incentives for the arrival of individual producers. The positive consequences of all of this are, however, the convergence of economic development and the growth of demand in the global market. The rise of China, India, and Brazil has led to new qualities in this relationship. It was mainly possible due to economic policy failures in more developed work, but the final result, humanistically speaking, is interesting but positive. If we move forward and look at the global financial market and the Slovenian economic environment, then we must say that we are living in a period of overestimation of the euro. It's been showing good for a while, a few months around May, and now the euro's value is rising again, well above its purchasing power parity to the dollar, let alone to the Chinese. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the result of overestimation of the euro is the relocation of production and the decline in employment in the euro area. These are our most important trading partners and ourselves, including the slow demand races in this part of the world. At the same time, demand is, of course, increasing where economic activity is increasing. If we look at the global energy market and the Slovenian economic environment, then we need to find that the characteristic of the modern world is rapid growth in demand, the growth of the medium layer in entire continents and subcontinents, China, India, the Arab world, Brazil. As a result, the strengthening, the sustained relative strengthening of oil and natural gas prices and the decline in purchasing power in the developed world, which was the major importer of these goods, and the increase in purchasing power in the part of the world where gas and oil are exported. And this has become interesting export markets for us. In the field of energy, the importance of state regulation has proved to be due to the market specifics I have mentioned. If we are looking at the movement of long-term capital and the Slovenian economic environment, then it must be said that membership in the euro area has reduced the regional risks of long-term investment in Slovenia and has created an opportunity to act on the modern geographic economy. We used it in the Revoz or Renault case. We have a 30% chance of aid for investments in Slovenia as long as we have about 0.75% of GDP. We are currently being assessed in this ranking, and in this way we can encourage the arrival of individual producers in an environment where they can, and we are also doing so where we can improve the employment picture or situation. The problem is, then he can leave. The criteria, where implemented, for example in Ireland intensively, also had specific criteria, such as added value and export orientation, and the ecological integrity of such investments. In this context of the geographical economy, it should be borne in mind that successful Slovenian companies are very interesting targets in this euro market and that one of the tasks of the Slovenian development policy is also to create conditions for the establishment of these companies with important business functions to remain in Slovenia. So, the ownership image is important, too. If we continue to look at some of the results of development policy as those that essentially generate the potential for fiscal stability and the provision of a high public standard, then we can see, firstly, we compare Slovenia in two groups of countries of the European Union to GDP, and see if we have 100 per hundred purchasing power, then the European Union has 15 developed 122, Germany 127, and then I have three countries listed here that can be examples of good practice for us, three small EU Member States, imitating their development and fiscal models, and they could enable us to achieve faster development. They are all above average developed in relation to the old EU members, and also in relation to Germany, as an important member of this large economic package. Looking ahead, as one of the signs of the intensity of development policy, we have achieved 1.66 in the share of expenditure on R & D. Here it must be said that the previous government has succeeded in speeding up or increasing this part of the previous lower work with some levers. This is still much less than in the old EU Member States, and in particular less than in Finland, which could be an important example for us here, or Austria, which is closer and more stable, less focused on one product than Finland itself. In fact, Austria has 2.67. If we go further to some of the results of the development policy, measured by patent applications, what is now achieved by these expenditure. Then we see that we have 65 applications in 2007 per million inhabitants. Finland has 251, Austria 201. Here, however, it must be mentioned that we are far above any transition country and even better than most Mediterranean countries, somewhere in the ranking of Italy, the Mediterranean members of the European Union. Why, we'll see about that. Patent applications, if we look at the patent office is smaller every day, but we are also present here, and we still have a lot of reserves here for these small successful economies, and measured at a million people, it is standardised and comparable. If we look further at the intensity of development policy in Slovenia and two groups of countries and look at the share of public funding for education, then here we see that here we are where our potential for these patents is. It's a strong school. Traditionally, we have a very strong school with an average of 5.72% share of GDP in the old countries, which have 4.88 15-year-olds, Finland has more - 16.4, but we are in the ranking of Austria and Germany. The share of R & D expenditure in the budget shows that we have 1.15 in 2008, which is less than the average of 15 and almost half less than Finland. All others also have more, already in the budget itself, dedicated to research and development. Thus, it is not only the private sector that is more oriented there, but also the public sector is more development-oriented. Looking ahead and here our handicap was the intensity of development policy across two groups of countries and looking at the ventura [[?]] capital, the real venture capital, as the possibility of obtaining financial resources for small development intensive enterprises, was zero in 2006 and by 2008. In 2009, we started to change that. It should also appear in statistics in 2010. Others have this capital quite strong and are divided into capital that encourages businesses, growth of enterprises in the initial phase, entry of ownership and then resale, and also those that allows the restructuring of enterprises and their replacement of production with more modern work. So much for a shorter introduction. We're going into a financial crisis. October 2008 was the date when the systemic risk was realised. What was in the background was seen at world level. First of all, from 2002 to 2007, due to the large public financial and external trade deficits of the United States, in which some economies of the newly industrialised countries grew relatively rapidly; China, India, Brazil. During this period there was a significant increase in raw materials prices, otherwise there is no trend and irreversible relative to others and an increase in interest rates since 2004, when the global economy clearly overheated. In 2007, this increase in interest rates led to the collapse of the real estate market in the United States. From 2007 to 2008, credit crunch at global level followed, as banks estimated an increase in the risk of capital placement. This has also had an impact on lowering the value of stock exchanges and has had an impact on slightly reduced economic growth, but there has not yet been anything tragic and the comments that have been made that the crisis cannot occur have of course been related to this period when it seems that the economic situation is manageable and that there will be no systemic risk and that these comments must however be viewed as benevolent, well-intention. Then, on September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers’ investment bank went bankrupt, which would not be a problem in itself if the US did not decide that it would not help. The finance minister was then Paulson and he estimated that it might be healthy to show up, so I imagine it would show up to the world that someone who had mistakenly invested in bankruptcy. It's also possible that he was a competitor before, anyway. At that time, it turned out that someone who was "too big to fall", said too large to fail, had failed and followed a flashy response of world capital markets with the total freezing of credit activity plasmas, etc., in a few days, there was a flashfall. This was followed by a fall in demand and lasted until February 2009. So we can call it a financial market break, October, in February Obama came to the office and started with measures that he had apparently prepared earlier. That brought back optimism. Thus, the first signs of improvement on the stock market appeared in March and then it was easier to place government bonds than the first papers that could be marketed. Although the start of a coordinated fiscal expansion is already taking place in the European Union in November-December 2008, and in the world in G20, February, I think February 2009 has been a gradual improvement in the economic situation since March 2009. The technical recession in the world ended in August 2009. Slovenia has been exposed to a financial crisis, namely, right now, I don't know if you can see that if you see it on, it's a little bit smaller because it was pretty, we've cooked a lot of it. From 2002 to 2008, we started to become a structurally dependent region. In 2002, we had another 247 million euro surplus in our current foreign account. This was about 1% of the gross domestic product at the time. In 2004, we already had €720 million deficits. That was 3% of GDP. And in 2008, this deficit amounted to only EUR 2 billion 300 million or 6% of GDP this year. With this we have started to become some kind of Kosovo, a European Kosovo, a region drawing from the surrounding area more than it is sending goods. There is not enough savings, and if this also adapts to the economic structure, it may take decades to dig up such a situation. What regions, Mezzogorno in Italy, never succeed. At the end of 2004 it was gross, that is the second point, at the end of 2004 Slovenia's gross external debt amounted to EUR 15 billion or 57% of GDP, and by the end of 2008, gross external debt rose by 155% to EUR 39 billion or 106% to the end of 2008. In 2004, Slovenia, which is now the third point, a net creditor to abroad for almost a billion, 0.9 billion euros or 3% of GDP, said we were on export [[Export oriented small fast driving economy.]] We said the success story at the time, and in 2008 Slovenia was a net debtor abroad for 9.9 billion euros or 27% of GDP. The increased exposure of business banks was one of the characteristics of this comfort, 2004 was a net debtor to abroad for 2.7 billion euros, 2008 was an increase of net debt to 8.8 billion euros, and finally, and what is most painful and is now likely to have an impact on the deterioration of the rating, 2004 was still conservative, around 1 and 2008 rose to 1.6 in Slovenian business banks and is currently not significantly falling unless we consider the country's deposits as deposits. How did we solve the crisis now? Measures in the financial market. When the global financial market broke down, we gathered new compositions in Parliament before the government was even appointed, two guarantees. This is a guarantee of a nutritional deposit and a guarantee of loans in the interbank market. After the government was appointed, we adopted a loan guarantee scheme for companies to speed up credit activity for the assets and guarantees for loans to natural persons, to those who buy the apartment for the first time, and to those who find themselves in a position of unemployment, unexpected to make it easier for them to survive this period. We have also set up a special subsidiary of KAD, a company for restructuring, which directly enters a credit failure company. That is to say, where credit is not available or where it cannot be stimulated, bank credit is stimulated because, after the course of business, such credit is at risk. There can still be a healthy core buyback of the KAD or recapitalize, rehabilitate and then resell. Therefore, he has a special subsidiary, which also has a special staff, which is a piece of that situation. There are quite a few companies where this company has turned out. It's a unior, for example, already one we're proud of. We have further reduced the VAT refund period from 60 to 21 days. We have increased tax reliefs for small and micro-enterprise investments. We have reduced excise duties for the consumption of liquid fuels for business purposes to a minimum and additionally in agriculture. We have made a fiscal expansion of €790 million through the budget rebalancing. Here we have added all that has already been promised in the previous term, such as free kindergartens, free secondary school nutrition, and added additional fiscal expansion to the requirements of the European Commission 1.2 percentage points of GDP. This is a multiplier of around 4.7, if we consider that multiplier 2, over the finger, is estimated at 4.7% of GDP. The fall of GDP would be even faster if these fiscal expansions with the first rebalancing 2009 were not introduced. As part of this expansion, only measures in the labour market amounted to around 370 million euros or 183 million more than in 2008. In solving the crisis, we have also focused on what we intended to do if the crisis did not happen, this is the implementation of the developmental conversion, the transformation of Slovenia into a small open, export efficient economy with an average high standard and, clearly, an appropriate added value. We have introduced subsidies for technology centres, R & D and competitiveness of €64 million, which is part of that fiscal expansion. So, one part we literally spent on financing developmental conversion. Several projects have already been set up here by the previous government. Here I would mention the so-called 'ripe', an increase in the funds of the entrepreneurship fund, especially for the'venture' capital, there is 88 million euro. Then recapitalisation of Slovenian exports and development companies for EUR 160 million. This has become the core of promoting the introduction of new technologies and new products, as well as more modern, better approaches and reforms. Then we set up a special line of credits from the European Investment Bank for the development investments of the automotive cluster. Here we were one of the initiators of ECOFIN, and to this end we have allocated EUR 230 million. We expect that there will also be a major shift in competitiveness in this area of our producers. Then we set up a specific EIB credit line for development investments in small and medium-sized enterprises, EUR 308 million. And the total volume of all these measures was €850 million or 2.4% of gross domestic product. Not all of this is in short supply because some of these funds are recoverable. The consequences of the crisis. In the face of overheating the economy before the crisis, with the weaknesses with which we have suffered, there was a fall in gross domestic product in 2009, compared to 2008 by 7.8% real. It really means that inflation is added, not counted as growth. So, according to the euro, that was a little less. The increase in the number of unemployed, the seasonal take-up of a good 30 000 from the top, I think November 2008 to the bottom of February 2009 is more than 50 000, but this is seasonal, here is also the seasonal factor included. Reducing public financial flows by €237 million in 2009 or 3.6% of GDP. This is due to a fall in the base and not just a fall in tax rates. First results. If we are looking at the industrial production that received the most incentives and the last line, if you understand the data, then you see that in the third quarter of 2008, industrial production was still growing, otherwise seasonally, there were fluctuations, but it was still growing. In the fourth quarter, a rapid decline began, which was from October onwards. The decline reached its peak speed in the first quarter of 2009, the second quarter calmed down and then continued uninterrupted growth began. In the second quarter of this year, 11.5% is above comparable last year's level, about 5% in the first half of the year, compared to 7% in the 8 months. If we move on to a gross domestic product, the improvement here is not so starry, due to the impact of problems with the construction sector, its pre-dimension, the completion of the highway programme, the fact that the third, fourth development axis has not yet started to build the second track of Koper-Divač and the modernisation of railways in general. At the same time, the export redirection of the construction sector has not yet been successful. If you're looking at the last line here, you see the same thing. During the third quarter, slow growth followed by a rapid decline of 3.3% in the fourth quarter, reaching the highest speed in the first quarter of 2009 and then gradually calmed down. Growth started in the third quarter of 2009. Here we have to watch, not the middle line, where the season is, but this last season is de-seasonated, and then this growth continued in the fourth quarter, this year ended in the first quarter and then resumed again in the second quarter. In the second quarter of this year, GDP was 2.2% higher than in the first half of last year and 0.6%. Come in. Results of the balance of the current balance of payments account. Here we have achieved success – in the face of a large deficit in 2008 – 2009 there has been a decrease to 1% of gross domestic product, a little less this year and it will be almost halved, but still a deficit, it is said that this deficit, which has been growing from 2002 to 2008, has begun to receive structural characteristics and will take several years to move to the point of a valuable surplus, so that we will grow again on the basis of improving our competitiveness and as a small export economy, but a potential when we have the potential to do so. Next, if we look at the consumer price index or inflation, we see in the above table the overheating of the economy, which has been shown to be a country in the euro area of high inflation 6% in 2009, in 2008 and then 2008 respectively, in 2007 and then in 2009, this inflation has fallen rapidly to less than a percentage throughout the year and this year remains on average below 2%, but in each month, let's say we introduced excise duties, additional rates of excise duty above 2%. Well, that's something for you guys now. The impact of tax reforms in 2006 on the deficit in 2009. If reforms had not been introduced in 2006, tax changes had already been introduced, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and so on in 2005. [[...]] These are now those 2006 reforms and would have the income scale that was then in force at the end of 2005, then there would have been € 160 million more, according to the Finance Minister's estimates, inflows from income, despite the fall of GDP. Then there would be 114 million Euros inflows from corporate income tax and 637 million Euros more if they had a tax on paid salaries. This is EUR 511 million in 2005 when this was still fully in force, if we consider that this was 1.8% of GDP at the time and that about this percentage of GDP would have been retained, we would have come to this 637. In total, there will be 911 million euros or 2.6% of GDP. If we had these 2.6% of GDP, and if we had, I think 5.8%, 5.9% of the deficit, then we'd have only 3.3% of the deficit, total public finances in 2009 and we'd be around 3 in 2010 and then we'd go fast to nothing. So here's the original sin that we have to solve when we save him. Because when I propose an extra tax, I get my faces dirty right away, and then we're looking for other solutions. How did we solve the situation? Partly where we can, with the effect of raising excise duties, mostly, we have introduced excise duties on energy products or raised excise duties on energy consumers and thus obtained EUR 224 million. Then we returned to the carriers and farmers, then we lost here, then we lost almost 20 million, 19 million. Then we introduced or raised excise duties on alcohol, here we got 20 million euros, raised excise duties on cigarettes we got 10 million euros and introduced additional investment incentives for a small economy, micro-enterprises, with growth potential, so the combined effect of these two measures was, however, 204 million euros less deficit. If we look at how fiscal policy was led, the review of policies that mattered more than nine to eight, then we can see that we have taken exceptional action in the labour market, which is nearly a hundred percent more targeted than we did in 2008. So, for social cohesion, we stood for everyone who got in trouble and actually helped him. A number of measures have also been prepared. You've accepted them in this high choir. We then focused on higher education, science and technology with a nearly 30% increase in new calls to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness, led by the Ministry of Economy with 12%, social security and health care, with a largely closing of the investment cycle in this area with 10%. We also devoted 8% more to education, sport and culture. And if we're looking at Keynesian investment, it's called public investment, which we've increased by 116 million. In 2009, there were almost a billion, 116 million more than in 2008, or 12%, and this was also a crisis. If we now look at the public financial deficit, because the deficit of all four public finances, not only the budget, but also the municipalities, pensions and health bills, then we can see that 2008 public financial stability was virtually complete with, of course, high conjunctura and inflation, which brought additional public financial resources and then fell to 5.5% in 2009, it remains about there this year, or it is a percentage lower in terms of savings rebalancing. 2011 will fall to 4.5 total to 4.7 and then fall below 3% by 2013. What are the levers? How to achieve the goal of public financial stabilisation. One of the proposals was undoubtedly also made in the law to simply set itself for target 46 and later 43% of GDP. We have already introduced changes in excise duties on cigarettes, fuel oil, electricity and natural gas. We will not give any more, so that we will now send a change to the excise law so that November's increase will be no more, we also act anti-inflationary. Then we changed the income legislation, increased the relief, which reduced the income at the annual level. Then we do not expect VAT increases. However, we expect changes in the contribution rates and the way in which contributions are calculated, especially for those who are economically more successful, but now they show the minimum wage in pension reform and you will receive these proposals in the amendments to the Health Care Act. The main leverage is the 5th point of limiting the ceiling on expenditure, the fiscal rule, which sets the budget limit at around €10 billion, of which €1 billion is from European funds. Around this, budgetary planning is spinning, which is a few turbulences, a few measures need to be implemented at all. Therefore, the importance of the social partnership, which we insist on and expect to be understood all the time, is outstanding. To insist in a way that is easy if it is not now, but after economic recovery it will be, and here the partners will also decide how and where those shares belonging to certain categories will be shared. We are also expecting a certain net effect in the real estate tax law, but we cannot quantify it yet, because coalition negotiations and later parliamentary negotiations will bring about significant changes here. What are the expected fiscal consequences of structural reforms? We expect that labour market reform will increase efficiency in this market and actually lead potentially to a net inflow, making it easier for people to look for more favourable jobs and get them easier. The reform of the pension system will simply force us to work longer, whether it will be bonuses or minorities is a matter of social partners and parliament. In any case, we expect a net inflow. The reform of the health system is expected to increase efficiency and we expect a net public financial inflow. The reform of the social expenditure that you have already adopted in Parliament and will enter into force in the middle of next year will, we expect, be neutral and optimistic in terms of focusing on those who really need help. What are the public financial prospects? Economic growth will reduce the public financial deficit. Mencinger’s economic assessment shows that on average this effect is 0.3% at 1% of economic growth, it is said that even if we wait for this growth, the government deficit will gradually decline. With our actions, it will fall much faster. The success of the developmental transformation, which we are carrying out smoothly, is also mentioned by the European billions of European funds, which must be spent primarily on purpose for these purposes in accordance with the European model's development promotion standards. It will accelerate economic growth and effectively address the public financial deficit, and we can also expect its surplus or further reduction in tax rates in the later period if we succeed. So that public standards can be maintained at a much higher level than at the beginning of our mandate. Finally, I would like to say something more about increasing the efficiency of governance and the functioning of the country. We are now establishing a capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which will deal professionally with efficiency management problems and increase flows from the country's energy, telecommunications and financial sectors. Then we adapt budget planning to the fiscal framework of the European Union, here will be a lot of changes with the European Semester ex ante, we will be planning the budget for 2012, 2013 already at the beginning of next year, we will have to coordinate with the budget of the European Union. In fact, we have savings-oriented budgets for 2011 and 2012 with significant effects on the lower public financial deficit, as if all rights were paid in the same way as was envisaged during the period of the largest economic downturn. Some payments will be slightly suspended, while rights remain. We will remain a slightly fast-growing and competitive economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u23	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak, as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I'm going to have to be much more constricted in this part, because the College of the National Assembly has given me only 30 minutes, while Minister 90. But we had the same long introduction. I'm a little handicapped in this way, and I couldn't afford to have a slide and such a wide performance. I thank the Minister for that. For he showed very simply and visually the difference between how in the opposition or in the Slovenian Democratic Party we see the future and the stabilisation of public finances and how the government sees it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we see the future and the stabilisation of public finances by limiting the expenditure of the wider sector to around 46% of the gross domestic product generated in the medium term. In doing so, we want to give one important anchor that dictates a significantly more rational behaviour and a more cost-effective behaviour of the wider sector of the country, not just the state budget. Other institutions that belong in the wider sector are also important. I find it difficult to understand that the minister says that the government does not have jurisdiction over this part of the country, because he is keen to adopt any law when imposing new obligations on the municipalities, interferes with the jurisdiction of the municipalities in one way or another, and would not be the first time that it has intervened in limiting the expenditure or in some way in the context of the State sector. On the one hand, we want to control the cost of what we have created. The Minister sees elsewhere, and the Minister sees an increase in government budget revenues at the expense of higher taxes, at the expense of larger contributions, which has been illustrated. From that table on the deficit curve over a medium-term period, he listed a number of measures from which it is possible to understand that there will be an increase in the contribution rates, both for health care and pension insurance, so that the excise policy, which in the past has brought a drastic increase in excise duties, energy, fuel and other fuels, will be called unnecessary expenditure such as cigarettes and alcohol. And where else he sees it: in the Real Estate Tax Act. Last time, about a week ago, I asked him how much income you're a wider sector of the country's prospects under this heading, and he said it was right, as it was written in the budget memorandum, about 0.5% of gross domestic product or, read and write, between 150 and 180 million euros. So here we have two concepts, respectable. The idea that we want to limit the country's expenditure on one side of the opposition, to make the country a little less flexible and efficient on the expenditure side, and therefore anchor the expenditure on the created, to a percentage of the gross domestic product. While the minister sees a solution elsewhere. He sees the solution in increasing taxes. Moreover, he said that the tax reform was the original sin, the tax reform that was adopted or enforced in 2006 and later the original sin of everything. In summary, this tax reform gradually abolished the tax on the payment sheet, the tax on paid wages. This tax reform has reduced the corporate income tax, reduced some tax reliefs and also reduced income or income progression. If I understand correctly, Your Honor, this is an original sin. And I ask the Minister of Development, what does he think of this original sin? Is it really an original sin? Is this really a bad tax reform? And if it is, why don't you go back? Why didn't you propose a year or two ago? I know why you're not - because because it's an original sin, it's only the opinion of the Social Democratic Minister of Finance. A lot of other ministers have different visions here, and that's right. Because, Minister of Finance, with extra taxes, you will not solve this Slovenian problem. Slovenia's problem can be solved only by assessing the applicants in a way that takes a comprehensive package of measures, on the one hand, to increase economic activity, it is said, to relieve the economy in tax and administrative terms and to encourage the economy, not least with the necessary development investments of the country. These country development investments are in various infrastructure projects. And I ask you: How many state spatial plans for road, energy, rail infrastructure has this government adopted in two years? And how many did the previous Government accept within two years of its mandate? And you will see how willing this State instrument is for economic growth as well. I can't agree with some of the thesis, but that's another story. For example, with the thesis that the crisis is short-term; this is what the Minister said at one of the meetings. The crisis is long-term, but the deficit of Slovenia is long-term. This is said to be not due to the crisis or the deficit is clearly due to some other segments. If I understand you correctly, you mentioned that there is a currency crisis in Greece. There is a crisis in Greece because they have totally ignored the stability of public finances. They spent and lived through what they were able to create themselves, so they deepened and deepened until it broke. In fact, Greece has demonstrated the non-action of what the European Union is working towards, namely, the Stability and Growth Pact for each country individually, which generates a Pact of Growth and Stability for a whole group of countries. Greece has been an example of how this is likely to be promised and spoken by the ministers and the European institutions and, on the other hand, it is doing quite differently. And there's one more thing. Earlier in the opening act - I see that Mr Levanič also does not know how to read official documents of the Government - said that the budget deficit for the following year is only 0.2 or 0.3% away from the forecast for 2011 and 2012 from the forecast in the exit strategy. Once again, in the exit strategy, the budget deficit is projected to be negative 3.7% and not 4.2%. 4.2% is forecast to be a public deficit, that is to say a common one, all four cash registers, not just a budget. While the budget deficit is projected to be minus 3.7% in the exit strategy. Now it was adopted yesterday by the government of 4.5% for 2011. That's saying 0.8% here is the variance. Not by 0.3% not by 0.2%. And similar to 0.95 applies to 2012. It is said that the government, through its documents, does not hold on to its own documents from not a year ago. And these are, of course, important signals. Important signals are also all the other unrealistic documents that come to this National Assembly from the government and then actually the situation turns out to be completely different. See only the implementation of the 2010 budget, according to the 2010 balance adopted. Even in this, the exit strategy was forecasted for this year minus 5% alone, so deficit. A deficit of 5% of GDP. Now you're probably going to be between minus 5.5 and minus 5.8, if you don't of course stop budget implementation, which can happen and then you're going to be that pay in the next year's expenditure anyway. This cannot be done, that is to say, only for the exercise we have known since times, very innovative finance ministers who have worked in such a way that they have counted 13 months in the country's revenue and 12 months in the expenditure and have created a deficit. Between us, these ministers are sitting here now. So, once again, I want to underline, and I'll probably be able to do it again. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we see a way out of this mystery and the stabilisation of public finances in Slovenia in such a way that we seriously cut into the expenditure of this country, particularly those expenditure that is not developmental, which is not investmentable and will hurt. This will hurt us Members, it will hurt you, ministers, it will hurt the officials, including the others. This should hurt everyone in this country, but this pain can be a wedding, so it'll probably be better tomorrow. The crisis is a crisis. The crisis is tackled by crisis measures. For example, when a firefighter rescues a fire in a house, an axe can also break the door because it extinguishes the fire. If the fire extinguisher goes in the fire, I don't know, there's gonna be a keymaker there to make the keys for him to get into that apartment when he's on fire, it's probably gonna be a devastation, and that's about how you've been doing this story here in the government, and you've been having trouble with reality and action for a year and a half. Therefore, once again, I ask you not to increase taxes in this country, not to additionally bind a tax soldier to the economy and to the people, because many are already in red numbers. We are talking about the economy, and when we read statistics on the risk of poverty, it is constantly increasing in the country, including among those who serve their bread with work. This is a sad and respected minister, this is the journey of these measures, which you have not been able to take. Raise the excise duty on energy, raise the excise duty on fuel, beat people's pockets, ordinary people, the lowest incomes. And the results are here. Results, unfortunately negative, in a negative light. Therefore, I ask you kindly, and take this, this proposal of the opposition as a message, as a guidance, how the government can act responsibly, and where, lastly, you also have support in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u25	Mr. Magg has the word. Gaspari. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u26	I am speaking because the honourable Mr Vizjak has invited me to the debate, so that I will also answer that. But as for what Mr Chernač said earlier, I will finally make one brief comment, because the same story is constantly repeating, which is not true, so that we can clear it up. As for Mr Visionak and those years, I can only remind him and his colleague that they had done something similar to Dars in 2004-2008, but they did not have any specific budgetary problems. So we're here on the same boat if that's what you want. By the time you mentioned this story to me, this Parliament had adopted the law, so it was not done by the Minister's will, for the first time, while Dars was made without a change of law, although the law states that it should not be owed more than the ability to pay off tolls of debt, which was violated between 2004 and 2008. Now what's content is more important. Mr. Vizjak keeps coming back to the same story that he can't prove. And this is that by reducing taxes it will improve the economic situation in the country and thus increase the tax base of the larger tax inflow. This evidence is simply not available, nor was it at the time you were in power or in government. That's the first one. If this evidence were, then this evidence would also be valid in other countries where it did not happen. From the United States of America, where they tried with a similar Reagan time, to some other countries around the world, where usually after this period of this, if you want, these fiscal policy options have come up with huge fiscal deficits. America is just the most outstanding example of this, and it is also very educational. Your thesis that taxes should be further reduced would be justified if, in most of these areas, Slovenia was clearly outside what it belongs to in the European Union. That's what they say somewhere near the average. If we look at VAT now, if we look at income, if we look at excise duties, if we look at profit tax, there's no place for this thing. It only occurs in one segment, where they have contributed greatly to the fact that nothing has happened in the past period of high conjuncture. These were contributions to the labour force. You didn't do anything there. At the time when 6% of contributions to health and pension insurance were growing, nothing changed. Nothing has changed in the area that we see as a problem today, the problem is only for a particular group of employees, that is, we have unlimited contributions in terms of income earned by employees. We have unlimited, we do not have a cap on the social contributions of employees, as do most other European countries, including those with whom we like to compare themselves, such as Germany, Austria or Finland. From this title comes this great burden, a greater burden of work in Slovenia, which then appears in international statistics more burdensome. Of course, at a time when there are no fiscal inflows, it is difficult to make such a shift, which means that this is calculated in Slovenian practice, about EUR 270 million for pension and health allowance. You have also done nothing in one other area, which is of great importance from the point of view of the tax system, this is how health insurance is paid. A single premium for health insurance, additional voluntary insurance, about €270 per person per year, is an extremely regressive form of taxation, which means that it is richer than for the poorer. In this area, you did nothing when you had this opportunity when you adjusted, say, correctly, I must say that I supported it at the time, the abolition of the payroll or salary tax, and I always repeat that, the fundamental error was made not by doing so, but by not doing the same thing at the expense. If you go to look at the growth dynamics of expenditure during this period of tax reforms, nothing happened there. No conscious economic and political action to adapt expenditure in such a way as to structurally adapt this change in revenue, which could have been properly sustainable in the long term. It was not sustainable in the long run. So, tax reform with a mistake, and that's a problem you don't want to admit and you keep coming back to in a different context. If we look at what the tax mark is, and this is the basic criterion for comparing countries between us in Europe, this moment is the tax gap in Slovenia between 39% and 40%, about that much less, even a little less this year, I think it is 38. Thus, a tax mark that does not show that Slovenia would be distinctly outside those frameworks it has. However, if you have time, you will also receive material, this is a material on budgetary practice in the Netherlands, which by this logic stands as one of the much more regulated countries in Europe and you will see what their programmes for the period 2011-2015 are in the field of tax coverage or tax change and in the area of expenditure, and you will see that Slovenia and the Netherlands are not significantly different after this salary. So the idea that there will be additional tax reliefs, if, tell where, if, in any way, and if, to whom. With selective tax reliefs, you are doing the opposite of what you yourself adopted in the context of the 2006 tax reform, at least admit this. The 2006 tax reform was an increase in the tax base. Reduction of tax rates and elimination of selective tax reliefs. This was a basic concept worth supporting. What happened in 2007 and 2008? You've begun to undermine your own reform. Look at the list of measures you have taken in the tax area of 2008; we do not need to prove ourselves, they are adopted. What was going on back then? At that time you claimed that there was no crisis and you went to take additional selective tax reliefs, something to do, something to the third, without any concept and result. There's no result. The result of a two-and-a-half percentage point, a reduction in the tax burden, where was it known in the economy? In 2007, 2008, 2009. Where? Tell me, how did companies come into crisis twice as indebted as they had before with the tax relief they spent on what? Obviously not for technological modernisation or for better, I'll say, organization of business. Otherwise, we would not be in a situation that is so severely lacking in capital. And now it is necessary to take measures to reduce the burden of repayment of debts on these companies. By the way, Mr Chernač is always working hard with this comment, including his president, Lehmann Brothers and so on. If Lehmann Brothers were such a problem for Slovenia, then the Bank of Slovenia would not have reported profits in the last two years. That's a first. And second of all, about the tycoons. Whoever wants to look at the data will see that the tycoons have been happening since somewhere the first half of 2007 and that there were also those sales of assets such as Mercator and similar, where probably Banka Slovenije could not have had a direct impact. However, it could have been the government or its institutions, those you now claim to be so useful that it was not good to make a government asset management agency because it was Kad and the Court that managed it well during those years. However, if we look at the impact of the management of this property over these years, with the 6 billion assets the country has at its disposal, the annual income from this asset is on average around EUR 100 million. One hundred million to six billion you know the rate of return, so to speak, is none. So these two institutions did an excellent job for Slovenia and the privatisation process during that period produced excellent results. By the way, we still don't know what the result of the negotiations on the purchase of shares in the Ljubljana Bank was one of the international funds that was negotiated at the time, because this documentation is simply not available. To sum it up by content. What is essential is that the state does not increase taxes where it could harm citizens. Excise or excise duty is a normal means of adapting the fiscal situation in all European Union countries without exception. You can see this in Eurostat's reports on tax sources. Secondly, the state does not increase the income burden. The State does not increase the tax burden on legal persons' profits. The State does not increase value added tax. Thus, three elementary taxes do not increase and seek ways to find alternative sources at social contribution rates in order to reduce these rates. According to your logic of alternative sources, this is not the case because all taxes have to be reduced in one way or another. On the other hand, if we want to reduce the burden on work, which is basic, conceptual, I will say the thing, then it will be necessary, when fiscal consolidation is needed, I do not know such a country in Europe that would work fiscal consolidation while reducing tax burdens and reducing cost burdens. Such a country does not exist at this time with fiscal consolidation programmes in Europe. There are countries that combine these two are countries that do this mainly through expenditure, but there is no country that would combine both in the same direction. It's not like that. If you find such a case, please let me know, because I will be happy to see how that could have happened in this country. By the way, the country I mentioned earlier and saw their report today has a projected government deficit of 5.8% of the social product, the Netherlands. It has a programme, as Slovenia has after 20 policies, to reduce expenditure on these 20 policies in the coming years. Why we have wage problems. If we look at your July 2010 proposal, which you said you already proposed, what was needed, look again and see what you wrote about the public sector, although you are talking about public administration, in the public sector, what you proposed. You have proposed forgiveness of people, which the social partners are resisting to social dialogue with us. You mentioned that we do not know how to conduct a social dialogue on the proposal in order to reduce employment in public administration by 10%. On the other hand, this is not my proposal, but on the other hand, it would lead to so much more short-term unemployment in Slovenia. Of course, that's right, exactly, no matter what you want to explain. On the other hand, we have proposed the freezing of wages, which is a socially sustainable measure at the moment, and an economical measure that will not further affect the population spending, which you believe is one of the major drivers of economic growth and which is expected to bring about significant tax reliefs to the growth of the economy. I'm afraid it's not that simple after all. Secondly, we also propose the same status, not only for employees in the public sector, but also for pensioners and social transfers. On the other hand, we propose that, given the capacity of the tax authorities in Slovenia, given how this moment is regulated in the area of declaration of income and active income, those who are economically stronger are adequately burdened through real estate. It is not the first apartment or the first residence, but it is also the case where financial investments in real estate occur that are duly taxed in real estate. Such a proposal I hope that, in coordination with the coalition and other partners, it will come to the National Assembly. I hope that, as the opposition, you will support such a proposal if you support a balanced tax system in the country. Surely this moment of real estate in Slovenia is properly taxed and a lot of avoidance of tax liabilities comes from the fact that income is not properly captured and transferred to property, especially real estate, which is much easier to control than active tax revenues. By the way, in your tax reform, you have also taken a step that is causing relatively great problems at the moment. However, it was useful for a short period of 2007 and 2008. This is a tax on certain so-called passive incomes, such as dividends, capital gains, interest and the like, with 20%. My suggestion is that this rate is too low if you have already gone to a vigil tax, if you have kept the threshold for taxing active income to 41. It is obvious that people are moving, it may be funny for you, but it is true that if you read any literature that people, because of the huge difference between 20 and 41 active incomes, move into the application as passive incomes, it is possible to do so and tax administration is hardly very effective against it. A huge difference between cedular, yes, of course, because most of these revenue comes to the highest limit, by the way, not part. If this had been taxed after progress, this income would have gone to the highest level, as a rule. That's right. Yeah, you know what, those who are in the first grade, income-generating, I guess they don't have much capital gains and dividends, I guess, unless they're self-employed who report personal incomes as minimum, but at the same time they get income from corporate governance over this. Therefore, there is a clear gap and it would be significantly more correct if it were taxed capital gains, if they were not reinvested for economic purposes, but if they were spent, they should be taxed like any other consumption. Thus, we do not make a distinction between capital gains that are being spent and capital gains that are being reinvested because it is the primary purpose of economic activity to encourage those profits that go back to reinvestment and investment. So, I want to explain what you've encouraged as a development minister to tell you where I think your excellent tax interventions are, despite all the shortcomings that have brought not only good results, but also some bad results. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Excuse me? [[...]] I'm not talking about original sin, I'm talking about that there are some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u27	Mr. Mag. Visik, I'll give you my word, as you asked, but that's already a eulogy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u28	alerted to our mistakes, I just need to tell you where I see mistakes on this and why it is not possible as easy as you think, to further reduce the tax rates on the whole of tax legislation. [[...]] And besides, there's no proof, by the way. Do you have proof that 2007, 2008, or 2006, 2007, 2008, as a result of selective tax relief, there has been any significant shift in the quality and structure of economic growth? You don't have one. Since these reliefs were mainly made in the field of investment relief, they went to the walls of shops and to construction. Not into new technology, into new equipment, etc. If this were already installed and functioning, there would be slightly less problems with productivity and the competitiveness of most economies. Today, by the way, we are suffering the consequences of a pre-dimented construction activity that did not occur in 2009 and 2010, which occurred in 2007/2008. It substantially pre-dimensions activity by social product. If you compare European countries with us, you will find that for at least 3% of the point of the social product, construction in Slovenia was re-designated according to real, medium-term needs, where it was stimulated by credit activity in short-term activities, which, of course, as soon as the crisis occurred, were no longer possible. And because of this, most of this sector is barely living. Let me finish. As far as fiscal problems and fiscal solutions are concerned. Slovenia will definitely be able to resolve the problem of the surplus deficit by 2013, with a sustained reduction in public financial expenditure. Now, as far as the rules are concerned, there were a lot of words about it. There is no need to banalise things that are economically clear. The criteria for expenditure on a social product are at least one reason a lack of criteria if you want to define it as a rule. If we went to look at what had been happening in Europe over the past 20 years on the fiscal rule, we would find, by the way, the gold rule, English, is not as gold as it appeared, but in this case it has already lost much of its shine, including on Great Britain by the way, this rule that the deficit should apply only to the amount to which investment expenditure and transfers are investmentable. If I look at our data, Slovenian, this would mean in Slovenia, this golden rule, for 2011 and 2012, so that we could have a deficit of 5.6 and 5.4% of the social product. So much for this rule. As far as the rules of expenditure on the social product are concerned, you can only control the counter, but you cannot control the denominator. And even when you want to control this process, you don't have that information in a year. So you can only refer to the social product of the previous year but not to the current one. And it happened to you in 2007. I would say, a lucky coincidence that, at the time of uncorrected, of course, uncorrected expenditure in that year, your social product increased at the end of the year and it appeared that you had achieved an active economic policy to reduce the share of public consumption in the social product. [[Ad in the background.]] That's not proof! That's not proof. That's the consequence. If it were evidence, it would be different. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] No, that's not proof. I'm so sorry. Because then, in 2008, it happened the other way around, so you didn't control the process, but it started automatically. If the process were a process, changes in the active expenditure policy would also be consistent with the movement of the social product. That wasn't there. So he can't go for evidence. He can't go for evidence. And that's why this criterion is bad. What you are telling us is that we are trying to control public spending nominally, and I can tell you again from this case of the Netherlands that they are doing exactly the same thing - for four years they have calculated, of course, because this is always calculated from the assumptions of economic movements and so on, which are being done by the UMAR, and for them a special institute - they calculate how much this means in the growth of expenditure at the level of the state budget or the entire public treasury. With us it's 10 billion, but with them it's this, I don't have the data right now, and I could find it, how many billion euros it is with them. And that's what they try to stick to. And it's the same with us. In the budget memorandum you will find a fiscal rule consisting of two parts and nothing complicated. Public spending depends on the first part of the social product growth trend, thus achieving stability of expenditure when it comes to a stationary situation where fiscal consolidation is not required. At that time, you have a situation where expenditure moves independently of income, which is an essential assumption for achieving anti-cyclicality by the rule. And the second part that is needed if you are out of balance, which is what we and most of Europe are now, is the consolidation part of this formula, which says that a specific deficit needs to be adjusted to the target and specific debt over a certain period of time. And when you add these two together, you get a nominal amount of expenditure, which is a fiscal rule. A verifiable formula can be checked by the Fiscal Council in Slovenia, which exists and is independent of the government. It can be checked by the European Commission, and it will do so in the future, and it can be checked by Parliament or the opposition if it so wishes. While the rules on social product expenditure cannot be checked by anyone because no one manages the nominee of this rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u29	Mr. Blackach, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Well, it's becoming increasingly obvious that the problem of this government is that there are too many professors and theorists in it who have not yet had experience with real life. But I'd like to answer some of the allegations that weren't correct. I was mentioned in connection with the fact that I mentioned Lehmann Brothers, and I didn't mention it. However, since Minister Gaspari has already raised this subject, we can say that Minister Gaspari bought two Lehmann Brothers bonds when they were highly quoted, it was said that they had to be paid dearly. And that when the Bank of Slovenia went bankrupt, Lehmann Brothers lost some ten million euros on this basis and had to book them as a capital loss. This may also be one of the reasons why, Minister-respected, Banka Slovenije - I do not know, you probably do not have this information - business in 2008 with a current deficit or loss. It's not true that she did business positively. And there's something else you need to say. In Banka Slovenije, after 1.1.2007, the number of employees increased, despite the fact that Slovenia has moved to the European Monetary Union since 1.1.2007 and the Bank of Slovenia has lost a large part of its powers. So it's some rigid institution that's continuing, obviously, a way of managing it when you were still presiding over it. And in this sense, I have talked about the extent of the potential, the credit potential for the economy and the population, which is not determined by the Government, but by the Bank of Slovenia. And in 2007, as I recall, you were also the Governor of Banka Slovenije. And you yourself said today that too many credits were then placed in construction that overheated the economy. So you're criticizing yourself here for a pay phone. If that was the case, why did you do it? You created these limits within the framework of the Bank of Slovenia in 2007 and based on this, the banks credited the economy and the population, and in my discussion I spoke in conjunction with the position of the SD Group, which referred to the previous Government. We know that this does not mean that the Government does not have jurisdiction here, but it has had them in the area of the credit potential of the economy and population of Banka Slovenije. On the part where the government had influence, the debt was declining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u31	Mr. Minister, there are no replicas on the replica. I'll give you a chance later. I'm just asking you nicely. Mr. Minister Krizanič has called. I would very much like to hear from some of the other Members who are waiting quietly. That's why I give my word to Mrs. Flowers Zalokar Orazem. I'll give you one. I'd like to hear one. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for this opportunity. It is true that dialogue has been going on for several hours, especially between the law and the government, but I must say that it is interesting, because, on the one hand, it was full of theory and basis, which I think is important in our work, and on the other hand, I will also say, the lesson that we have heard and received, in particular, the proponents have received it from the Minister of Gaspari, I think it is instructive and such that it makes sense to listen to it and we can be happy. In short, I must say that I do not count myself among those who are very skilled and at home in finance, although it is true that every single one of us, especially women who run households, but we also need to know some of the foundations of finance and in this sense it seemed clear to me and it is also understandable from this point of view in particular that it seemed to me an interesting explanation that we had received regarding finance. This household logic also gives us a very good understanding of what is happening to us. On the one hand, taxes have been severely reduced, and thus revenues, this has been positive. With this, I will say, both the proponents and the heirs of the previous government like to commend themselves. But they don't want to hear what was said today, and what I'm going to say is, with household logic, we can understand that we should also reduce expenditure at the same time. In short, if there is less money in the family, then it is known that it can be spent less. We've been given another. We have received a paid reform of the public sector, a matter that has been burdening us heavily in recent days and we are all faced with it, we have received free kindergartens for other children, we have received free lunches, and I think we have charged once for about 800 million such additional higher expenditure that I will say is ready to be realized and, on the other hand, no revenue. But whatever I think, today a lot of numbers have been said, what I mean to say is that what is worrying and what is happening right now is that we are also talking about this, especially from the point of view of the sentence going on, is the fact that in Slovenian public finances we know that we have 7.3 billion revenue in the budget. In short, these are the revenues of the Slovenian budget - 7.3 billion. Public sector wages amount to 3.4 billion dollars, almost half of what we get at the annual level. That is why it is so much more important that we all take a responsible look at the situation we are in right now. What I'm trying to say. The only real message today, despite the fact that the law bears the title of the Law on Public Financial Responsibility. Responsibilities. The only real message at this time, which would be good for this country, for our citizens and could put it in Parliament, is that without political calculations, everyone would jointly support the Government in its efforts to pay in the public sector in 2011 and 2012. This would be a real message to the Slovenian public. But this one in this National Assembly, I'm sure we can't. We can't tell our government, you're doing the right thing. If it isn't, the army won't take it. Once again, almost half of the revenues of the state budget in Slovenia must be earmarked for public sector wages. This is an important segment. At this point, I think there's actually something breaking around this sentence, whether we're going to make it through this sentence or not. The bet is less than half of the public servants. That's positive. We need to give recognition to that other half of the public officials who have not decided on a sentence that takes a responsible view of the situation in the country and, unfortunately, I must say, at times, one feels that at least the other part is strongly defined politically in union leaders in some way. In particular, I must say that I was surprised by yesterday's statement and the call for these unions, this minority of unions now in these critical moments actually invites everyone else to go on the road. Yeah, okay, let's go, let's all go on the road, but what are we gonna live on tomorrow? I think that this problem, which this part of the civil servants is exposed to, is not so great that it would actually endanger the stability of public finances, but actually security in this country. And of course, it's probably not the case that they're in the first place on this issue, that's what I find interesting, and in the negotiations of women. Irma Pavlinič Krebs and Helena Kamnar are obviously able to make the most of these efforts. I hope and call on my colleagues, but we may be able to support the government if we are serious about what we are saying with financial responsibility. If we are serious about what we want good for this country, then this is an extremely dangerous game, which is also about politics. For, see, at the same time as one of the SDS parties proposes a law on public financial liability, on the other hand, I read that it is a party supporting the statement of this part of the public sector. What's the logic here? I don't see it. Isn't that strange? Is it not difficult to understand that, on the one hand, it supports the statement that would create, I don't know, 300 million additional financial commitments for the state budget and, on the other hand, they demand, expect a limitation of expenditure. How, though, should spending be limited if, in the figures I mentioned earlier, almost half of all public finances represent the public sector's salaries. This is really something that a person is hard to understand and where you simply cannot say anything else as has been said today, hypocrisy, duality. I think that today's session is in a way that at first seemed kind of unnecessary, just so we can sit here for hours and hours and hours and deal with something that doesn't give any concrete results. Now it seems to me that there may be some good out of this, some understanding, some lessons, some lessons about how to actually do these things called public finances. Of course, in this sense, I hope that we will be able today, especially I expect from the applicants, to give some real message at this critical moment, because I think this is happening at this point, the sentence will be strengthened. If this sentence did not also have a certain political basis, a tendency and a desire to destabilise the situation in the country, then, of course, today this Parliament would know in some way correctly, with sober and correct words also to present to those who at this point consider it the only way to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u33	Mr. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much. First of all, there's something about cheating. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are opposed to the way the government and the coalition majority in this House have walked through the principles of social dialogue when, during the negotiations themselves, it has changed the rules of the game and has thus marched the unions and has caused this sentence, which will have many economic consequences and further deepen the problems in this country. This is all the truth about this sentence, and, of course, it is the responsibility of the ladies of Zares or his proximity. The right message - yes - must be the right message, the right message of today's session, we want to limit the expenditure of the wider sector of the country to what is created, in the logic, the household logic of Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem when she spoke of household logic. Yes, expenditure should be limited in terms of income. We want this message and then I also count on its support for this law, which essentially limits expenditure to what was created. Now it's a very big problem, Mr Gaspari had one monologue and left, asked some questions, and now he's going to listen to what I'm going to tell him. It is unfortunate that the evidence that the lower taxes could stabilise public finances was evidenced in 2007 and 2008, when we recorded high economic growth due to the decommissioning of the economy and this high economic growth generated more revenue, due to more tax collection, despite lower tax rates. Only a number of theorists find this difficult to overlook, especially if they are convinced of their trueness and innovate various ways of solving problems. And one more thing. With regard to the cedular taxation of capital revenue and illogicality that it is taxed at a lower rate thus 20% in relation to the highest rate of income, it is not true. Capital gains are first taxed with a 20% tax rate on profits, first 20% goes, then dividends are paid, and then they are taxed with 20%, i.e. 40% on generated income. But it would be really sad to have them taxed at 20 first, or 40 first, and then 40 more, or I don't know how you imagine. So, cedular taxation is completely equal to the highest income rate. And they are comparable, i.e. the taxation of personal income through income, and that is the cheduling of taxation through capital revenues. So I'm really surprised Professor Gaspari hasn't figured that out yet. In addition to the stability of public finances, see if she has ever been and I am grateful for again this finding by Minister Križanič that public finances have been stabilised in 2007 and 2008 as we have had a surplus of the state budget and also a surplus of public finances. Why? Because, through appropriate policies, we have also generated economic growth and adequate revenues, that the deficit has been exceeded and that public financial expenditure has been measured in gross domestic product. Yeah, what's more than stabilising public finances?Oh, my God! And this is proof that despite lower taxes, with increased economic activity, public finances can be created and stabilized. Now you'll say again, yes, because we were at the time of the conjuncture, everything was blossoming, everything was growing. But where was the conjuncture in Italy at the time, tell me. And in some other countries, the euro area where there was no conjuncture or was negligible. Well, it's not true that they all had golden times during a period of fat cows. It is not true that certain countries that could make use of it had, but certain did not. and it was also a matter of internal, both fiscal and other fiscal policies. It is true, however, that, respected by this Government and honourable Members, we are not and cannot be done in one term of all. It is true that we have probably not done enough on some segment that has been exposed, let’s say on contributions. It is right that we have stabilised the cash registers, both pension and health. The medical department hasn't dealt with a loss in a long time. In fact, it is still covering the loss of surplus income from previous years. And so there has also been a stabilisation of some systems in this area. Therefore, once again, I don't know, despite the discussion of how theoretically the only clear thing is that, at the time of the fall of gross domestic product, nominally the expenditure is limited, in fact, it is not clear to me. During the fall of gross domestic product, it is necessary to bind expenditure on income, as we are skating into some open-ended scissors. And I think that this fiscal rule for linking expenditure to a gross domestic product created can also be useful for this government, if, of course, it creates economic growth. If there's actually a scenario that you're predicting, then we're going to be witnessing an economic boom. And the story is we're a real blow. The real blow is that in less than one year the government will increase its deficit forecasts for 2011, by a poor percentage and by a poor percentage for 2012, in line with the objectives of the exit strategy. Let me highlight this one more time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were pleased with the exit strategies. Why? Not because of measures that were more or less difficult to grasp, but because of the clear fiscal and macroeconomic goals set by this government. But unfortunately, that's why we said, a very good document that we're going to use at the next budget and we really do have a good time with this budget, so don't stick to it anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u35	Mr. Minister, Dr. Crusader, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak asked a number of questions. In the previous debate, on three, I would like to take a look. For the first time, between 4.2% of the public financial deficit of all four cash registers, which was cautious for this year's budget, you will get 4.7. The one we now send to the high choice is 0.5, so this one right here in the middle of the page is not 0.3 or not 1. Why did the difference arise? It is because we are not going to raise excise duties to this extent as planned and the delay in Edis, the tax administration programme, will for a short time result in a smaller profit or a smaller result, the modernisation of this programme in 2011, as planned at the beginning. So here's lost that 0.5% share. Another time. What's up with the long-term deficit now? The long-term balanced budget does not mean that the budget is the same as we have all the time, but that when there is a recession, there is a deficit, when there is somewhere in the middle, we are at nothing and when there is a conjunctura, we have a surplus. Through its reform, Finance Minister Marble has actually established tax rates that were sufficient in Slovenia to maintain long-term stable finances. So, with a deficit when it's a recession, it's a surplus when it's a conjuncture. With the 2006 reform, this has not been significantly conceived. Cedularity was introduced at the time, however, because it was small amounts. With the reform before 2006, 2005 was one smaller one, there were minor changes. While the 2006 reform, which entered into force in 2007, this balance was actually undermined and could then be reimbursed, as the Member rightly said, only by a radical reduction of some 700 million public financial expenditure. That is to say, this would be very likely to decompose the work of the social state. Then the former government did not want to go into this, so we stayed with a long-term deficit. This proved to be a balance sheet adjustment during the period of the recession and, in the recession, about 5.5% of the deficits, instead of 3% of the deficits they would have had if the remaining levels were roughly the same as they were, after those corrections to the Marble reform carried out by the previous government in 2005. Then Greece. The Greek problem is, in fact, I don't know if anyone's in the way right now, but their original sin is an external trade deficit. They have become a structurally dependent region. The serious errors in development policy, the serious errors in European resource allocations, have caused them to be significantly more exposed to the deficit of external trade balance, I think it was 12% of GDP. And this is where there are simply some tides, up to ten years of long-lasting tides. And when those tides dried up, when no one was ready to borrow any more, there was an economic collapse that we saved. We saved it because in the reverse case, there would be a "spill" effect and the European market would freeze again, Greece could be the European Lehmann Brothers if we did not react then. When we responded successfully, stability in the euro area returned. Thank you very much. I have to save time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u37	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u38	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u39	Could you please turn off the microphone? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u40	Thank you. So much for your government's expertise that that minister who says he has to save time leaves his microphone blank. Good-bye to all of you again! Today we are talking mainly about how deep the country can reach into every citizen's pocket and how much money it can get out of his wallet. In the first moment of casual consumption or in debt, how deep it can reach into the pocket of all future generations. This is the core of today's story and therefore the need to limit the right of the State to do so, due to the current conduct of the current Government. What are the reasons for this restriction? The first is the reversal of the values of this government, which can be said in one sentence: this government and this coalition have no problem when it is necessary to devote 370 million euros for the 15th salary of Greek employees who do not go to work at all. They have no problems in this government and this coalition when it comes to giving $300 million to Dars, most of which will be a step back in the tolling system, which will restore endless columns and many more dead and grieving children to their parents on Slovenian roads, so that their colleagues, who have now been eliminated, will be able to turn money around and probably make a profit. However, when it is necessary to give 30 million to Slovenian swimmers, those who have now been victims of natural disasters in Slovenia, this is an insurmountable problem for this government! 18 million is currently reserved for assistance, and then this story is practically over. The first reason why restrictions are therefore necessary is the confusion and distortion of the values of the current government. The second, which today absolutely dictates restraint and confirms the eligibility of this proposal, is complete non-professionalness, which has been presented several times by the government. Incompetence or indecisive deception, or both at the same time. In the last term, we have been accustomed since the former SD Member of the SD, Mr Cwickl, to mixing what the public financial deficit is in combination with the borrowing of banks and to mixing private debt with private foreign banks and putting it all in the same basket. And you won't believe that we've seen this kind of winding up today - in a statement by one of the government's representatives. Sad and shameful and unprofessional, ladies and gentlemen, above all, this is unprofessional. Because in the last term, many individuals were indebted to private foreign banks. However, you must know that this represents the risk of that private and private foreign bank. This with public finances, with the possibility that such a debt should be financed from public finances, has absolutely nothing to do with it. And whoever puts these numbers in a very clear way doesn't say that it has absolutely nothing to do with it and can't have anything to do with it, manipulates it gravely. And if the government does that, it's just proof of its incompetence and the fact that it's an emergency restriction. The third reason that follows from the previous is amnesia in combination with non-professionality. In order not to operate on data that may be ours, and if so verified, I will help myself with just a sketch, the source of which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a specific Ministry of Finance, which practically puts all inductionists from governmental species, as well as the government only partially, firmly into a lie. What does this sketch say? In fact, public debt is domestically said, and the official economic correct name is called the debt of the wider sector of the country by European comparable criteria, i.e. ESA 95 per cent of the social gross product. It has been made for the entire period since 2000. And what can we see? That during the period of the Government of Dr. Janez Drnovšek, this debt grew slowly but moderately, and that the first one who managed to stabilise this part was Mr. Rop as Head of Government in the second part of that mandate. But the real positive shift in the best possible direction, the highest target, was succeeded by the Government of Janez Janša, who not only continued this policy, but in the second half of her mandate significantly increased and reduced ladies and gentlemen, this is your sketch, a sketch of your government, this government of Janez Janša reduced the share of public debt in the DDP. All of this lasted until 2008. But in 2009, things changed dramatically. Suddenly, the share leaps disproportionately faster than ever in history, and we see it today, has not even nearly calmed down and is growing significantly faster than ever in previous mandates, not only the previous government, but also the government of Rop and Drnovšk. That is so, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about these things, please first look at the sketches of your own government. But you can ask her why these sketches, because this is a sketch of her, of your government itself, this government did not present on the system to be presented to the public. Why did we have to find this sketch and introduce it? Because then blinding would be the end. That's the answer. And that's the third reason that requires restrictions on the law. Because it's blindness. If you have such a sketch that it is very clear that the only one who has achieved the great positive movement of Janez Janša with his government in the last term and that the current government is a real national disaster from the point of view of the indebtedness of future generations, and you do not show this sketch to the public, then that means you are consciously manipulating the public. And, ladies and gentlemen, your government is knowingly manipulating the public. Why? Probably because of the miscalculation of the value of how that money actually uses it. And there is something else to be said, ladies and gentlemen, while we're at it. This part, while still a few percent for Europe far above average economic growth, succeeded the previous government under the leadership of Janez Janša in the period when you have already recognised yourself, has already been presented with the financial crisis and therefore this success is so much greater. Then you said why didn't it take action in 2008? Here's where the minister said it. Lehmann Brothers, who then launched the final beach, was in mid-September 2008. And you've forgotten something, so I'd love to remind you, and I like to do you a favor when you have amnesia. The government, led by Janez Janša, is preparing a series of measures in the third quarter to prevent the crisis from hitting Slovenia with full force. They were ready to be admitted to Parliament and could be confirmed immediately by the new Parliament. And the reason for the restriction is the pomp, for the tumult has led you, the political prestige that you have rejected all these measures, but you have not done any better in two years. You've turned everything down, to the last. And today you're talking about why it didn't work. You rejected the measures, you didn't take them. You haven't even put some forward. What we've put into Parliament, you've already rejected. And then it was repeated a few more times, but it's not the worst. The worst thing is what you've done in this period, ladies and gentlemen, and this is the most sob since this restriction by law is necessary. Now, of course, you've all shut up and forgotten about it. Indeed, with the first rebalancing of the 2009 budget, you have made it crystal clear that also because you have rejected all the measures in time, the revenues are falling, increased spending by hundreds of millions of euros, ladies and gentlemen. You did it. And with that, what did you do? You have opened up the scissors in the public financial sense of the word and put them behind the Slovenian economy. And ye have squeezing these scissors, and squeezing them: for ye have too much use this day. Even today, spending on that level, which was, on average, the previous mandate, when you reached a decline of about 10%. This means that you are consciously spending not only the money of these generations, but you are destroying small and medium-sized entrepreneurship as the most vital source of the Slovenian economy and spending the money of the next generation. This suggests that restraint is needed. From here on, of course, the question is how do you show it to the public. You've kept your mouth shut. I've already shown this with some cases. The best example is this sketch, which is summarized by you, and it makes it very clear that your government and your coalition are literally a disaster. But the previous one was extremely successful. Your appeal says so, your governments, ladies and gentlemen, so if you mock, you have representatives of the government here, let them speak up, and I suppose you'll get away with it. Now let's move on. How do you actually show it in public? At this point, it is certainly necessary to build further. One of the tasks of the one who should also take care of the long-term development, not the short-term, long-term development of the Slovenian economy, is foreign policy. Your Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, recently said that his stomach is turning to him because of the situation in Slovenian diplomacy. The twist of the stomach is a quote. This is at the moment when Slovenian diplomacy is seeking to establish itself in the coming European Union diplomacy. It is clear that no proposal has been successful. It probably wasn't optimal either, but it doesn't matter. Catastrophe and literally a joyous distortion is if someone in their own country further undermines the efforts of people from Slovenia, so our representatives, in European institutions, establish themselves in places that they are working towards. That's unacceptable. This is also, if you want, everything before it's not state-of-the-art. And then we move on. What a colleague had previously said, which in some way apparently did symbolically make his introduction from the types of SD, the largest government party. In a way, although it was very fun, frankly, we had a nice laugh, but it showed something that I'm afraid is more than just that. He showed that this coalition and this government had completely lost contact with reality. Totally. What did he say? He said, yes, this government has prevented social breakdown and conflict. Yes, please, this government has caused a break in social dialogue and free after Klavsevic, continuing social dialogue with other means there before the Slovenian Parliament, which is now expanding in some way and continuing in all public services. What demagogy is it that if you call on the public sector to stop strike, but do not actually engage in negotiations on their requirements and thereby destroy any possibility of social dialogue in advance, you are obliged to do so, not only as a government, because you are responsible for the situation in Slovenian society. You caused the fact that things broke between doctors and this government on the back of patients for a few weeks. You're responsible for this, and I don't approve of anyone who did this. But responsibility goes to the government. Moreover, by law you are obliged to negotiate the requirements correctly laid down in the framework of the legislation. Not that you owe it to one-sided minds to strikers, but you are obliged to negotiate. Because they also have certain ethical and moral arguments on their side. They themselves have for many years waived the share of their income in order to address the imbalances. After six years of negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, this is what you all forget about in the public administration and have negotiated, as in the last term. If you wish to withdraw from this, you should achieve at least a principled consensus on this in the context of the social dialogue that you are disrupting over the long and long term. This deepens the crisis and reduces your income and makes you objectively harm this country. The collapse of social dialogue increases the conflict and reduces the economic performance of this country over a long period of time, and this is also your responsibility. All responsibility. That's clearly your credit. Not only did you, as in the case of doctors, violate the principles of social dialogue, but you even explicitly framed them and played them. You changed at the final stage of one article, about which consensus was previously reached and therefore the opposite side, the doctors did not make any additional requirements. Let me get this over with. Limitation is also necessary for reasons of finance, for reasons of what is included in what is ultimately paid by taxpayers from their pockets. In some ways, there are also tycoon acquisitions. And don't get all cocky about what happened again. The Governor of the National Bank of Slovenia has been warning for a year that the characteristic of the mid-2009 economic crisis in Slovenia is that, due to financial fraud, we understand Taiwan's takeovers as such, the real economic sector of the country is being destroyed, and these warnings are justified, but the government and parliament should then respond accordingly. Is that what happened? We're kind of trying this today. Because what does that mean in practice? It is necessary to know that through, if not otherwise, rehabilitation, or through public funds, the recapitalisation of banks has been effected, then the so-called Taiwanese acquisitions are also recovered, either directly or indirectly, even if the other company is borrowing from one company, and then the company has loans from, say, the Ljubljana Bank, clearly there is in the background, at the end of the taxpayer's money. Let me just tell you how much these things are turned to the end, on the case that we are now looking at from a burning point of view. We have Mercury, which was almost a monopolist, at this point has been liquidally incompetent for a long time and is practically ripe for bankruptcy. Whatever happens in the end, at the expense of the employees and certainly small shareholders, and especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which has been linked to this giant, will be short-circuited. Why? Because there have been attempts to take over, there have been certain financial manipulations within companies, including those that have been linked. And that the measure will be full, these same people who have somehow put into such trouble the mountain economy, that after the calculation of the Finance threatens over €800 million collateral damage, just to small and medium-sized enterprises, to those who were linked to the Mercury area, those people are now running dead on the Hermine Krt bank list in the City Municipality of Kranj. Jaka Piskernik, President of Mercury’s Supervisors, should answer this question, because he was at the head of Mercury, head of the supervisors, not only the administration, as is spoken of today, but all supervisors should now be reviewed for their backward operations. He's one of these. How else can one ask if all these people, inside there, are still many from the link from Sava to anyone else, are running today in the City Municipality of Kranj, which is, interestingly, far from the least indebted among the city’s municipalities. We can only ask ourselves whether the temptation after an additional debt that we can very nicely repair any other minuses already has motive for the candidacy or will later appear, perhaps on our own, such as the normal by-product of a possible authority. In any case, however, I am sure that such an example, just as I personally observe Gorenc, can be another one in Slovenia, and that I do not know him at this point, is certainly suggesting that very clear gaps are placed - where the use of funds for borrowing of which the State reaches into the pockets of taxpayers are allowed. I am firmly convinced that the country has already reached a great deal, not only in the pockets of the current taxpayers, but also in all the future in this mandate, because you have committed the country insanely. Such a leap in public debt, as your government has caused, will not be found anywhere in the history of independent Slovenia. And all of this requires a lot of caution. It also directs the National Assembly, if Parliament is worthy of the words to use its legislative power, which the Government is also committed to in the final stage and that these borders are in line with the proposal that we have tabled in the SDS. Because of the temptations you have already succumbed to, which you are subject to and which you might be exposed to in the next period. For the temptations to spend taxpayers' resources in order to reach even deeper into their pockets will be sure. All the laws now coming to Parliament, including RTV, where the automatic lifting of the subscription is supposed to be again, testify that these appetites are not only possible, but that they are still somehow expressed. And people should be very concerned about that. Because it is not only about the present, it is also about the future of the country of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u41	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I arrived today at the National Assembly, I did not think about witnessing such a display of hypocrisy, hypocrisy, and duality. When I read this law, I'm getting less and less clear what the opposition really wants, what the Slovenian Democratic Party wants. Today, we have heard quite a bit of sermon about the fact that the government does not save money to oblige the government to unduly spend taxpayers' money, on the other hand, these same parties have repeatedly made public appearances with the support of strikers from the public sector. I'm not going to repeat the same things that my colleague Flower said, because I don't really agree with some of them. I believe that public sector workers have the right to express their opinions, to ask their interlocutor, to ask the government's interlocutor what they believe they are doing, to settle and to eliminate wage imbalances. And I estimate that their struggle is perfectly legitimate. Legitimate, but based on the assumption that the state can and that the country is capable of paying and meeting their demands. The negotiations take place on the basis of this crucial misunderstanding. We hear from the government that there's no money. The opposition says, "Go ahead, we're with you!" Today, it comes with a law that essentially requires the government to freeze everything immediately. Let the six-article law limit the public consumption and indebtedness of the state. Okay, let's just say we agree. But be consistent, colleagues from the Democratic Party. Be consistent! Have eggs, go out and tell the stutterers and the workers: "We are against raising wages! We are to freeze wages, we are to limit the consumption needed to meet your requirements." But you don't have that courage, gentlemen of the opposition. You're playing a double game. And unlike my colleague Cveta, who said that strikers may be causing impossible situations and destabilising the country - no, they are not guilty of strikers, but it is the two-faced policy that we are witnessing here today. You know exactly that if the Government wants, and would like, without concern, to comply with all the requirements of the public sector workers, it should make an additional commitment. Pika! It's the only real fact. We would need an additional debt, i.e. an additional deficit of at least EUR 200 or 300 million. You don't want to do this, and you want to stop it by law. But tell me which side you're on! Here you say this when you go to the streets and you encourage them to demand even greater public consumption. That's not how it works. That's not politics. That's not politics! It's blindness, which you like to talk about very much. That's why I'm gonna say it again. I think the government here has made some mistakes. To negotiate, negotiate and negotiate with the social partners. That social dialogue should not be interrupted. That there is a need to negotiate with the unions and even the strikers. But if the result of these negotiations is an additional debt, gentlemen from the opposition, let's talk about: We want to make a commitment, we want to increase the financial hole we have, don't we? And if not, of course, say it clearly! With such a law that you know there is no real possibility of just accepting it, because the government wants to keep some maneuverable space. And it is right that this is the case, because the negotiations are continuing. There are probably other alternatives to this, but there is no opposition here either. Let the opposition tell him to have a face and tell him where we can cut and cut expenses. Is it in the army? You're not excited about it. Is that Afghanistan? Are those patriots? Is this the ship that you ordered and bought at the time, even with an extremely bad contract that needed to be upgraded, in order to bring the deal to an end and to pay an additional 15 million euros. There's a lot of holes coming from your period. Not to mention the economic fiascos and disasters that began during your term of office and we inherited them right at the moment we entered the recession and into the economic crisis. So, I'm sorry, I was a little upset today. I'm not usually like this, but before such duplicity a person can't stay sober. You know, I understand the anger of the workers, but I don't understand your playing with the fate of the country, the fate of our common property. Of course, it is nice to be the opposition at this point and to throw more bombs, this, then on the street to each other, which goes the other way and try to destabilise not only the government, but the country and ultimately even the democratic system. I hope you don't make it. I hope that the workers who strike today and are rightly angry will see and learn this double game, and they will not reward you, without worrying.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u43	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. I don't know, and I don't remember, even though I've been monitoring when Mr. Jur mentioned you. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But don't try to convince me, you know. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Don't be too offended. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u44	Thank you. Do you really believe that in no case will I be offended, but I am glad that you respect the Rules of Procedure and that we can only respond to statements that imply a reversal of words. For the honourable previous Member could examine the particulars of me personally and the parties in the past and this mandate. And I would see that I have always advocated social dialogue at any time and that nothing has changed completely in this regard. If you want written evidence, see the draft law on RTV Slovenia, in which I gave even a special place to the RTV Slovenia Workers' Council, just so that such an important institution of optimal solution could be found within the social dialogue. All of this now you're tearing it down, rejecting and turning it down. In the previous term, you had a social dialogue full of mouths. And that's cheating, and that's what people see. And I hope they don't forget this this time. However, I must also say that I understand that when you say that you are angry, because, given that your government has obviously silenced you from the sketch, which proves that the previous government, through public debt, has achieved the greatest possible success and reduced it, according to European criteria, as a percentage of the social gross product, the current government has made it dramatically worse and has spent a mountain of money on a catastrophic economic impact, so for the wrong values, I understand your anger and I feel for you. I also feel for Slovenia, which has such a government and such a ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u45	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposed law aims to limit public consumption and the country's indebtedness. The law is therefore based on the principles of austerity and the treatment of various means. The good economy adapts to the use of the funds created, which is understandable and does not owe itself to purposes that do not create added value, or, if I say otherwise, the funds invested must be reflected in such a way as to cover the expenditure also by profit, as we are stagnating in the opposite. It is in no way understandable that the State is in charge of covering social transfers and in this way ensuring social peace in the country. At the same time, however, it does not prevent a grey economy that is already above EUR 10 billion and does not take away a cent of tax and people who are recipients of social transfers do not have an interest in this after-employment. Moreover, these people are becoming more and more and the country is losing control in the field of employment and finance. The same story is found in the field of public administration, where various advisers and contractual associates are employed and paid in a gratuitous manner through ministries. Despite the fact that we have too many employees in the public administration. I don't know what that's good for. Whether we have a staff that is so incompetent, which is only on the payroll or we are solving financial distress for friends and relatives. The rationalisation of public administration employees has been the subject of debate all the time, but the government has not been reducing employment in public administration but has only increased. According to recent findings, it exceeds the number of three thousand, amounting to more than EUR 100 million per year in additional salary money. All of this shows that the government treats money irrationally and does not reduce unemployment through real-sector employment, but strengthens public administration against all the rules in which the exit does not believe itself. It is noted that in 2009 and 2010, all the country's major revenues have been reduced, but this should concern the government and start immediately with the promotion of economic activity. The deficit in 2009 was 5.6 GDP. In the first quarter of 2010, it had already increased to 8.8. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, it is already 9.6 GDP, which proves that the government is leading the wrong economic policy and that the measures are necessary. As we have long noted, current transfers are increasing exclusively at the expense of increasing transfers to individuals and households, which means an increase of €1 billion in two years, so that social measures and reforms must be immediate if we are to curb the flow of money into the void. However, it is necessary to create new jobs, which will significantly reduce funding in the area of unemployed people from social transfers. The public deficit has increased and it is not expected to settle in 2011. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the country had to be in charge of the international capital market. [[...]] This increased the country's debt by as much as 60%. It is imperative that public spending be limited to a reasonable limit and not wasted over what has been created. The bill states that public spending expenditure will be reduced by about 690 million in 2010, 2011 by about 1 billion and 80 million in 2012, by about 1 billion and 520 million in 2013, by about 2 billion in 2013. If the findings are at least approximately correct, it is worth listening to. I'm worried about what this sentence means for an economy that's already digging in red numbers. However, the forecast of the blockade of the port of Koper will cause damage that will exceed the amount demanded by the public sector trade unions. The bet connects unions and creates dissatisfaction in the real sector as well, so that there is a general statement to be expected, which can also confuse the government, which no one wants. The government must be aware that it is not a small congregation but a responsible task in the country and must respond accordingly. Being casual doesn't solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u47	Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I think, unlike some other Members, that this law is an important issue and would not be asked, I avoid the question of which government was better, or Peterlet, Drnovškova, Ropova, Janševa, Pahorjevo. It doesn't really matter at this point. The situation in the country is important and how to prevent it from getting worse. The budget, which we do not yet have in the National Assembly, but has already been dealt with by the government, as we have heard from the media, is projected to save, is forecast at the same time high economic growth, relatively high economic growth, in the following year and 2012. This is said to result in a reduction in indebtedness from these projections. That sounds good, in fact, we are almost likely to receive an almost optimistic budget in the National Assembly and one that everyone would like. It is necessary to know that by 2008, the last 10 years, in fact, the revenue in the state budget was perhaps slightly lower than the expenditure, in fact, we had a fairly stable situation and we could have taken over the euro. Last year, however, we suddenly received 1.8 billion debt or deficit. This year's forecast is 2.3 billion. The budget, as we have heard, predicts a reduction in this deficit in 2011 of 1.7 billion and only 1.4 billion more in 2012. That sounds good if that number meant cumulative. In those four years, the Cumulatives will not be 1.4 billion in 2011 but 7.2 billion. 7.2 billion plus interest and here's the question. Interest is rising in these years on average 0.2% of GDP and in 2012 we will pay 2% of GDP for interest on these loans alone. Do you know how much that is? If health care received 2% of the gross social product, we would have everything citizens want today from health care if human resources requirements were appropriate. Because of 6%, it is believed that in health care it would possibly be necessary to raise the contribution for 1% of the gross social product. This is 2%. We are talking about Kad, who is to be given a pension each year after the marriage is passed or enforced every year. 2% of gross social product is 750 million and is 15 times higher. These are the funds, just interest on the loans. Therefore, even though predictions are too optimistic, they are still so dramatic that we cannot really ignore them or easily take them. Revenues in the coming years, in the coming year 2011-2012 will certainly be lower, as the economy is in a major crisis. Look, just one month ago, it was barely a month ago when the World Economic Forum said that Slovenia had fallen from 37th place to 45th place on the economic competitiveness index. 37th to 45th. They beat us even in a positive sense with a smaller, better competitiveness index, and Poland, the Czech Republic, Estonia, were also in crisis. They also had an economic crisis, like all Europe and everyone. And we have fallen from 37th to 45th, and the World Economic Forum lists what are the main reasons for the decline of our economy. The main reasons: an increase in the budget deficit, in the first place. Secondly, increased debt, low efficiency of public spending, low trust in ethics of business relations, political favouring of companies in public procurement, poor relationship between workers and employers. This is where we even fell from 29th to 91st. Wages don't reflect productivity, that's our socialist balance sheet, we fell from 36th to 72nd. And the collapse of bank liquidity, we fell from 77 to 110. How, in such a state of affairs, can we predict such economic growth?Oh, my God! How?Oh, my God! How to be so optimistic is blindness. You know that the competitiveness of the economy means the first sign or first trait to say that we will have higher economic growth, and there is no such property. Winter! And when we are facing the collapse of bank liquidity, at such a drastic fall, let me mention what was announced yesterday or today that the World Rating Agency is talking about the drastic fall of our banks, namely NLB, NKBM and Abank, in all areas, this is called short-term commitments, long-term commitments and so on, which means that it will clearly follow, and this is also warned by the second, higher interest rates, harder access to credit and so on. I find it kind of unserious to say, although the Prime Minister says that Slovenia will be Silicon Valley in Europe. Gentlemen, let's be more serious. So the spending of the country is growing despite the crisis. That's more than a fat cow time, a waste of the country. And that's the problem. Next year, the expenditure of the country will be 18% higher than it was in 2008, and despite the forecast of wage and pension freezes, the country will spend 160 million more next year than it does this year. Despite the freezing. Yes, whether only workers or only employees should tighten the belt and freeze. And when we're talking about the strike, we've never been against the freezing of wages at this time. Never. But we are against such an attitude toward unions that you simply change the law with your left hand, change the quorum, and run them over. And unions are not against freezing, but they are against the fact that those rights that are promised by law, that they are deleted, and that they are set aside for an unknown future. They just want clean bills, which is all right. And there's another problem with the spending of the country. Even the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank is forecast. The budget is reportedly forecasting a reservation of 100 million. We all know that with regard to the country's ownership quota, the budget will have to give $400 million for recapitalisation if it comes to it and the other owners will have to pay $300. And if they're not ready - what happens to the Ljubljana Bank? We will go again, as we have done many times before, so-called high national interest, and again we will pay the taxpayers for its inability to operate and protect unsecured loans. And this is going to be an extra one, like the cost of the state. Not to speak any further, let's say the case of the Wallards or SCT ambitions in Libya. What will this bring to the country? 330 million guarantees if the government and the banks give in to the SCT lobbying, such as the lobbying of some of the other moguls from the city of Ljubljana has been kneeled by the government. An example of unexpected expenditure or economic impact reduction: only Lukšič's winter holidays are counted by everyone, from the Minister of Economy to the Directorate of Tourism, to the representatives of tourism in Slovenia, to cost Slovenia between 10 million and 15 million. Less income will, due to this impossible, be unfounded, just as it is, during the night of ambition or conclusion that we will have all Slovenians winter vacation in one week, instead of the same as before. Not to mention the long-term loss of numerous tourism, which will turn to foreign ski resorts. We are talking about the establishment of constantly new and new agencies, the employment of 3,000 new employees in public administration, taking into account these new agencies. And the great danger that we can imagine, the pre-election year 2012 - what will happen? Again, some appetites, quickly, quickly before the elections to do something powerful, let the stadium quasi or anything and run again and again tax money in the form of new loans. It is necessary to freeze these appetites that I have just stated, the appetites of the country. Those countries that often work with taxpayers' money like a pig with fur. And this law does not say anything other than that, the consumption of the country must be in line with the revenues. Stabilise, as do some other countries that have emerged from these threats and have come to do so. Nothing else. And I think it's a correctional proposal, it's not pre-election, the elections are still a long way off, two more years are up to them. This is just a proposal that we feel should be accepted. And if the government is not able to act on the income of its spending, then the National Assembly and the Government must impose this restriction. Yeah, that's why it's the legislative branch of power. Our responsibility, not the government, is our responsibility. And I expect you to support the proposal as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u49	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today we listen to debates that are so different that we do not talk about the same numbers, so to speak. However, we are talking about the same numbers, about trends, and perhaps the worst part is that some listen with only one ear and that they do not hear the other ear when they speak and evaluate. Like others, I am convinced that there is a need to discuss these truly difficult times in order to face different thinking. But I count it very bad that this is happening in some atmosphere of animosity, so to speak, aversions to the government, because the diagnosis that has been made by the proponents is simple: The government is confused, the government is doing nothing or if it is working, it is making mistakes. If it were so catastrophic, we'd be in a much more difficult position. But we have the opposite of what the government is doing, what the coalition is trying to provide, including the recipe that the proponents have proposed for us. And this recipe is actually a recipe that says that you have to make one move and all the problems will be solved. This move is a move by which the state and all public finances should become so-called anorexic. You can't live like this either. For this reason, in particular, it is not because the applicants wrote that their recipe is a drastic reduction in so-called non-development items. The first thought that comes out here is how the words of so-called indevelopment items enter the law. What should those of us who read this picture under such indecisive terms, with the opposition saying that it is very insidious, that it is very flat-rate, that it is very bad what is called a fiscal rule. When we both face these two categories, we see that the term is so-called indevelopmental, that the so-called indevelopmental items are significantly more vague. Let us ask ourselves what the proponents actually meant by this. Did all those who were socially and otherwise affected think here? Are these the indevelopment items we don't minimize? Are these the transfers that are legally binding to provide pensions to those who have earned them? Whether these are any other items, such as the items that we are currently implementing, although they were in a different time, I would say, by law laid down and today they are called salaries in the public sector. This offer, the offer of a prescription that we have received on these few pages, is such that no medicine can be found for them in the pharmacy. It's not like that, so a drug that only applies to all diseases. We are being visited by those who have proposed this bill and let us say that there is only half of it in total to save about €5 billion in four years. How can you do that? It didn't go anywhere. I don't know how to do that myself, unless I have some special thoughts under so-called indevelopmental items. Nevertheless, the government has followed two guidelines that can be found in this bill. One talks about limiting public spending and the other talks about limiting the country's indebtedness. As far as the limitation of debt is concerned, I see a criterion and it will be a parameter that makes it possible. It's a fiscal rule, it won't allow you to be in unlimited debt. Secondly, limiting public spending is a restriction that we are now working for and again many are playing a truly double role when we talk about wages when we talk about structural reforms when we talk about transfers, pensions and so on. I would be very happy if, in these necessary reforms, for which we will not be able, almost certainly not all of us are united, either to freeze pensions, transfers and some other items, but to find so much power and to push our minds out of this crisis so that we can get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Franz Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. I must say that this bill is in fact proof of the public financial irresponsibility of the applicants. Because at the time of the worst economic crisis, they demand to limit those expenditure in public finances, which would certainly destroy the level of social state and solidarity achieved. In doing so, I think that investments in the work of public finances are either dented very much to a minimum and that they remain, in fact, only salaries in the public sector and social, social transfers, pensions and so on. From this point of view, it is entirely inappropriate for the State to report on the debt to the State because, when it comes to daily bread and the social state, the country was obliged to borrow loans at the time of the fall in the number of employees, at the time of the stagnation of wages and so on, of course in the light of the economic and financial crisis, so that for the first time we could retain a number of jobs by subsidising working time on the one hand, while ensuring social rights for the unemployed and, of course, maintaining the payment of pensions, despite the reduced flow of contributions to the pension register. We are not America, where those who do not have money simply die or because they do not have bread, or because they do not have health care, but for example, I would like to tell Mr Tsukjati, far more about health care in GDP than we do, and not all people have health rights, as we should have them. Therefore, the amount of money does not yet constitute an appropriate operation and adequate accessibility for all. We just have a different system. We are thinking that it is the public interest that we must preserve within the social state in the areas of health, pension insurance and social security that applies to all those who need it. I must say that it is really sad at this point that unions are right when they demand, for example, the elimination of wage imbalances in the public sector, which, of course, has also begun to work and has in fact been absorbed. However, they are not right about the time when they demand that this be done smoothly, as well as the donkeys with some minor delay. There's just no place to take it. On the one hand, debt reduction is required, on the other hand, to pay off something out of nothing, from money that we do not have and that we cannot create on short notice, but we can only get it out of public finances in the form of debt in a bank or at home or elsewhere. In this context, I cannot support a statement in the public sector, nor any other that might be more justified, for example, in the real sector, in such a way that it is further detrimental to public finances with the damage that will occur in the real sector economy due to this sentence, but even less to all those union representatives who are shouting that it is only necessary to tighten things up to the end, but donkeys, I say all the failures, of course, everything can go to waste, only where the money for those wages can be asked. I'm always asking myself, and I don't see it that way, so we can create it. I agree with some of the suggestions made by the applicants when they said that the Government, but I add, also the previous one, did not strengthen the responsibility of the management in companies that are partly or most of the state's property and did not require the responsibility of the supervisory boards. This is why I am also talking about the previous mandate, because we have evidence of this in the Mercator sale, in the purchase of Hita shares by Kad at three times the market price and so on. No one has ever responded to his belongings, and I do not agree with that. I agree today, however, with the freezing of wages in the public sector or even the reduction of my salary, not by freezing social transfers and reducing the situation of those who have nothing and are on the verge of poverty. Of course, I can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. When I saw this law, which called an extraordinary meeting today, I could not help but pass on the fact that it was time and time again for one pre-election campaign within the National Assembly, that is to say, to take advantage of the institution, to say everything else that was not supposed to work in the country. But why am I so sure of this fact, because what you are proposing today is what the government has already done. If we look at some of the facts, it is true that because of the financial crisis we lost a significant part of the funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because the tide was much smaller. On the other hand, we had to provide more funding for the first year of the crisis, especially for social transfers, so despite the lack of money in the budget, we had to provide more money for social transfers. And of course, more consumption is, because we have more unemployed people, because some things need to be settled, after all, we have in the Constitution written down that we are a social state. And it didn't work without the debt. I am really interested in how today those who often have prescriptions, how this country should be managed, would solve such a situation. We'd probably try without the debt, but we'd soon realize that's not going to work. Believe me, if we had any other recipe to solve this matter in a different way, we would certainly be using this recipe, not in debt, or trying to solve matters in any other way. But it's not working. No one believes that no political option is intended to incur the country in such a sense or to act irresponsiblely as you do to the government. But as for finances at home in a household, in a family circle, sometimes something should be put aside when it was possible. So once again, I stress that we had this opportunity or you had it, when there was more money to put something aside and that we might be a little more prepared for the crisis. Maybe today we shouldn't be so indebted, but let's just leave it on the side. Not only is it obvious to the government that it does not know how to conduct social dialogue, but on the other hand, you report that it does not cut enough spending, that reforms are delaying, that people in public administration should be forgiven, etc. But how do you imagine that? On the one hand, you strongly advocate the strike that you criticize that everything in the country is not going in the right direction, on the other hand you say that deep cuts must be made, that reforms must be carried out to the end, etc. You behave at this point slowly, when a statement suits you, you pick it up and promote it in a particular group. It's not an easy time, I believe for any government that would want to or would have had the opportunity to run a country. Accusing a group of people who, in my opinion, give a lot of energy to find the right solutions, to lose contact with reality, to care about people, but I think it's a little excessive. Earlier, Mr Grims had stated that we had consciously taken the Slovenian economy down by 10%. I think how it can be, how someone can actually say it. Who would want to do this knowingly or harm the Slovenian economy or Slovenian people? Indeed, those who claim to be true have lost touch with reality or with what is happening in our country. We've seen a lot of graphs before. I'll only show when I'm talking about responsibility. If we left a spontaneous borrowing scenario, we'd see that the year-to-year schedule would increase, so we'd be more indebted. But if we look at the government's actions, we see another graph that intersects the debt at some point and starts to decrease it. These are then concrete measures and, of course, the responsibility of the government you are reading here today. Such a concept is foreseen in the budget; it is envisaged to stop the debt and to reduce only this. Everything has been explained twice today, three times, but as I say, we will have to have this debate obviously, because it is obvious by the opposition that there is an impression in the public that all matters are wrong and that only this government must be blamed. Once again, what you are proposing today, halfway through the government has already adopted in the past with a financial rule, so it has somehow limited the use of public funds. But if you remember when we adopted this financial rule within the National Assembly, once again it was not right for the opposition, it was not right for the Slovenian Democratic Party to accuse this government that it cared nothing but for public finances. So you're gonna have to decide what you want. It is necessary to reconcile a little statement and not always, when an old one suits you at some certain point, pull out and go to the barricades. Far from having everything in the best order in this country, and sharing tens of them with the government. Far from it. None of us say that. But something has to be admitted that a lot of things have been done. This is also shown in figures, including the actions of this government, and in particular the permeability of the Slovenian economy and entrepreneurship, which we do not take in many times and it is necessary to say that we have the capacity of people and, of course, to provide some data, that we have shown important signs of economic recovery, industrial production growth in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, since the first half of last year. That's just an important fact. And talk about nothing being done, but maybe it's just not true. If we also talk about gross domestic product, for the first time in the summer and half, it is positive to 2.2%. So that there may be little more arguments and maybe some recognition, because I also think, sometimes if there are good projects, it is necessary to bring them down, because it is important to put some distinction between political options and that we are always picking only political points again. This is not right, I think it is very important that the government continues with the measures it has put in place and that these measures may work a little bit more in the sense that they will be visible to people and that people will be able to really assess what this government has done for them in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Levanic, I'm going to correct you here at two points. First of all, the economic crisis is the reason why less money is flowing into the state budget, not financial, so you need to clarify this concept a little bit more. And, look, the other obvious thing is that you're assessing that the government doesn't do conscious damage to our economy. I'm going to give you a typical case. It has been demonstrated that only a measure to unify vacations for all of Slovenia will cause 10 to 15 million euros of damage in tourism, a loss of income. And now you can expertly argue to me that this move has been professionally reasoned. We can only understand it because of certain or personal interests, personal ambitions or ignorance. And that was, unfortunately, a lot. On the other hand, I would like to remind all those of you who have done so on a number of occasions, even today, that at the end of the previous mandate of 2004/2008 we have argued somehow that Slovenia does not have a financial crisis, has no economic crisis and that we have lived in some clouds and that Mr Janša, President of the then government, has argued. I will reread those two sentences he said on November 21, 2010 to give you a good memory. [[?]] When the new government was introduced here. He then commented on the matter: "Slovenia is not yet in recession, unlike many other European countries, the latest indicators do not predict it. Even for September, when virtually the whole of Europe recorded a fall in employment, we recorded an increase in employment and a reduction in unemployment. Slovenia has avoided the financial crisis. In Slovenia, no commercial financial institution has collapsed, but I am afraid that in time it will turn out that the only more serious problem has been an institution which is not commercial and which should absolutely not have these problems." This has come true, it is, the New Ljubljana Bank is the one who has come into such trouble. We know why, because of such credits she has given to political allies and all those who are in any way connected to this government. And to continue: "In short, Slovenia has avoided the immediate consequences of the financial crisis, but will not be able to avoid the economic crisis, because we are part of the European and global market and because the financial crisis is usually followed by an economic crisis and should therefore be acted on time." And here's what we've been trying to tell you all the time and also help you with various solutions that you've been rejecting all the time. This isn't the law that we've just filed first in a year and a half. How many different proposals have we proposed, which surely some would be worth some more corrections, consideration and in practice would prove to be effective. Even those measures that Minister Križanič mentioned or produced here at the time that they were taken in this mandate were indeed, but were prepared by the previous government because it was aware of the responsibilities, especially in the area of those problems that occurred at the time, so that we would not be destroyed by the banking system with the law that we took, as a country, guarantees. So that some of the proposals were prepared at the time, but unfortunately you didn't want to summarize them in their entirety, and even then, the whole time we were putting them into the procedure, unfortunately, there was no such willingness. Then, here today in the debate is debated or it is evident that there is half a side to the law. Look, sometimes one article is enough. What you're now reading is that it's unrealistic that it's not a recipe. When we write down what amount, GDP or deficit could be reduced. This isn't just about saving. By saving, we cannot permanently resolve the situation; man will be able to save up until he has nothing left to save and will be able to say good - bye to this world. Why don't we look at another aspect here besides saving? To revive our economic growth. The only way is to create new jobs to increase employment. One unemployed person, for the first time on the burden of the country, but if we try or give him a job, he will not be on the burden of the country for the first time, he will contribute to the pension fund, the health allowance and many other things. Look here, there's this recipe. To return to that statement or to Minister Gaspari's comment that he did not prove that the tax reform that was then would have really had such positive effects on the Slovenian economy. I think that anyone who knows little about the economy, all these consequences or the effects of various fiscal policies, will not share this opinion with him. Because just because of better or more favourable fiscal policies, a number of companies have reopened. They worked well, they employed people, and this is where the conjuncture grew. And once again, you will say that we ruled in the previous term, during the period of conjuncture, during the golden cows. Look, you think this conjunctura or this period itself has created that we were really so lucky. See, as these economic indicators were significantly lower in other European countries. Substantially lower. It means you can't say so vehemently here, it was given in itself. It was by chance that you were in government or had authority in your hands. Because if that were true, as you claim it was then, this picture would also be reflected in the same way now that it is in other European countries, this economic crisis is, in fact, really overturning or these consequences are significantly lower, this growth is being revived here, and unfortunately for us, it is not detectable. So these forecasts, to say the least, are now in the context of this 2011-2012 budget on something beyond 2% of economic growth. Here, optimistic predictions are unrealistic. Today, let us read to ourselves those who are convinced that these are unrealistic predictions. It is also that note that this economic growth in Slovenia has risen slightly. See also this may be a swing, due to such or other circumstances, right here, Mr. Vasle, today in the newspaper mentions that it can happen again, the end of this year. I must say that I have been very disappointed and outraged today by the proposals that are obviously now in the drawer or already on the table of the current government and that you, the coalition Members, will also decide that this situation in Slovenia will try to resolve primarily at the expense of raising taxes, if you knew those measures when they are, see everything based on raising taxes. There will be increased contributions to the pension fund, increased contributions to the health treasury, the introduction of a real estate tax, an additional blow to the pocket, especially the most exposed people, and also, see Mr Gaspari's comment that we did nothing worse in the tax field in fact than it had been before, so that the tax or income rates did not change so as not to change tax on profits. That's right. But look, one of the minimum wages is totally of no interest if the income rate is the same, but if it has to pay more electricity, if it has to pay more fuel oil, more expensive gasoline and so on. Let's imagine how much money you've raised. To the highest extent possible you've got them. Isn't excise tax? Maybe for an uneducated man, he doesn't even know what a waste is. Look, this is a tax that we pay directly out of our pocket every day for energy. And this tax doesn't just hit those most vulnerable people. This tax is also very damaging to our economy, especially the small economy. See how much they have to pay for energy, how much they also pay for petrol, oil, for what is an integral part of each economy. Such measures, which are envisaged here, are indeed not encouraging and will in no way contribute to the increase of economic activity. And it is precisely the effect of appropriate appropriate fiscal policy that the economic cycle, this is proven from the past, not only in Slovenia, probably in other economies. This starts to generate a rise in economic activity. And here's the key to saving. Of course, it must be saving, but not at the expense of the people most at risk, the most affected. Why is it not saved to be in the public administration, instead of reducing the number of employees in a natural way, with fluctuations, natural fluctuations. Look at the numbers on how many people you've hired in this term. These people are over 5,000 new employees. If we add up 5,000 times that much and so many thousands of euros, then we will immediately see where these deficits are. This law, as it is, however you want to defile it here, can only help the government. I believe that in the government, too, there are many times in the ministry that some are much more eager for money, and all of this, but then they are not able to control themselves, but with such a law, this help could be useful to many people, and the government would be better able to decide that where we need to work more rationally, let us work or work on raising economic activity. This will lead Slovenia forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I wanted in the introduction not to have a political shooting left and right, but apparently today it is like this again, instead of maybe going half an hour into the street and seeing what's going on and at least listening to what someone wants to say and help. I'll tell you some facts anyway, because I think it's okay to hear them. First, however hard this government is trying, the budget memorandum it has drawn up has overlooked the indebtedness of Slovenian banks abroad. Thus, the State with public debt assumed private debt. This is a fact, this has been done and this needs to be corrected. Secondly, the budgetary memorandum overlooked the weakness of corporate governance. This is beautifully said that he did not watch the managers of companies whose owner or co-owner is a country working, and today we have what we have. That's a second mistake. I have already warned twice, this country is justifying fiscal consolidation with the requirements of the European Union, not with, I understand, the Slovenian economy. Very precisely, the 2011 budgetary memorandum adopts the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact at the highest level of public debt at 60% of GDP. All economic experts have found that such a percentage of public debt for the Slovenian situation is significantly too high. And the proposal, as far as the Slovenian state can afford, is the highest target of about 40% of public debt, experts warn. A large part of public debt is debt to foreign countries and banks. And so the private down becomes a public debt again at the burden of this country. In the short term, the State's indebtedness has increased significantly and the Government has not given due attention in its documents and public financial policy to explain and explain this. Essentially, the Government must be careful and considerate of international measures within the European area, and in its armor, assistance in solving Greece's public financial problems. The government should be careful here and say no. And you know who wrote this? No Bogdan Barovich, it's not that. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This was written by recognized economists: Bogomir Kovac, Jože Mencinger, Rasto Orin, led by Dr. Marjan Senjur. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we have talked a lot about this marriage, we have come up with other different topics, which are, of course, in the situation we are in, still quite real. I am convinced that, of course, today's debate will not contribute to this moment by means of this law. We have already said that a law that, of course, has only six articles, has a good purpose, then, of course, it cannot solve everything at once. However, I am very concerned when we say many times about the public sector, as something unnecessary, unwanted, as some parasites, I think that in the light of this sentence, which I certainly do not advocate, I do not support, is an overpowered, excessive, disproportionate measure which, of course, is meant to be against the government, but the damage it does to all of us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You're having the most trouble right now. And that reforms in the public sector should be undertaken in a different way, not all in general, is the wrong view that because something was promised to someone, at a time when they were dipping honey and milk, because of this signature, something belongs to him because of this agreement. Today, times are different and this arrangement is not possible and cannot be fulfilled. And that part of the public sector could, of course, be aware of that and accept that fact. Especially since the promise that, of course, it belongs to them and traces in times that will be better remains and we are firmly committed to it. In this country, we must be aware that nothing automatically belongs to anyone, but that conditions must be created for this first. It seems to me that in all these times we are talking too much about how we are going to share what we have, and how much less we are going to create, because we are going to be happy with a market that is strongly linked to Germany, and there is already a rise in economic growth, we should first and foremost take advantage of how to simplify our legislation, adapt to these conditions, so that these positive impacts in our neighbours can be used significantly better by us too. Nor is it appropriate that at a time like now, of course, we frighten people by saying, as one of our colleagues said before me, a property tax. The story is being shared, the story is being reconsidered and, of course, every tax, each excise duty provides means to meet public needs. At least these funds do not come from flight or luck, but people in Slovenia must decide if we want to have a high standard and in certain areas, say maintenance of winter, roads, we have a standard above European high, as far as public enlightenment is concerned, Slovenia is one of the most enlightened, expensive and cost-effective countries in Europe. If we want to have the parks cut down, no matter how many times a year, all the garbage we collect, then, of course, we all have to do something together for this standard and agree on it. There are simply times when we need a little more optimism, more work and more positive debates, and fewer such extreme negative measures that I do not think lead us forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u62	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, the Minister is no longer among us, so I can't even greet him. Look, I'm going to read a sentence from today's Work, which is also highlighted and says, "After two decades of political regulation of public finances, the country has become devoured, fat and under-effective." This is from the editorial on the front page of today’s work, a newspaper that was so kind to the Prime Minister last week that he was silent that he had lost his nerve in answering his colleague’s question because he did not have the right answers. And for the first time, there was no feature of the next day on the questions sent to Delo, the central newspaper. Not at all, because there was also a question about the fiasco of Slovenian diplomacy. There was the government President's response that our diplomats were worthless, but something that we have good, he did not propose what the diplomats' union rightly protested. And that is now the point of today's work, correct. Right in this country, the country has become hoarded and in this mandate has become much more voracious than it has ever been, despite the catastrophic crisis in the country, the economic and financial crisis, as well as the political and social crisis, is a consequence. Every day a new agency. The government is proposing in each law the creation of a new agency - a new agency to be paid from public funds. And of course you pay for it because you put your political people in these agencies, who you owe them politically. And it's no wonder that it's the kind of fiscal situation that you've brought your country into. It is therefore imperative to warn this country, this power and the current coalition that it must, simply, do something to stop these catastrophic movements, economic and financial. No, however, the government does not see the need for such conduct in its response, even thinking that it is making the right decision and so on. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, with the Government, that it is difficult to acknowledge the complete failure, the inability to lead the country in difficult situations. However, in the National Assembly we must be responsible for the future of our children, the young generation. Is it allowed for a certain government to spend everything and leave an entire generation without a future? This is not allowed, ladies and gentlemen. When we had a debate on the military budget a while ago, when it was completely consummated, we had to freeze because there are such situations that it is no longer possible to lead the development of the Slovenian Army. Good. But then the government MPs said, "If it isn't, the army can't take it." Yes, but with public finances, we are constantly drifting into stalemate, and obviously we can continue to be indebted. 2 billion debt, the gap between government revenue and expenditure, isn't that catastrophic? And, see, despite this situation, the performance of the Member of the largest government party, Mr Frangež, was literally ignorant and irresponsible, unrestrained, childish. It is clear to me that, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the largest government party was represented by a Member, whom they will say he is still young, he is not aware of it. The president of the Committee on Finance did not act, although the Group of Members does. Because those words would, of course, be a little more binding. Mr Frangež's performance, which said that they had been given a government in poor financial condition, is now significantly better than the financial condition of the country. Such talk is also a disgrace to us Styria Members, that a Member is coming from Maribor and is ready to resist the propaganda machine of the current coalition with such nonsense. At that time, the President of Parliament, Mr Gantar, closed his ears and monitored this performance. I must say that he rightly, justly, did not want to show by a symbolic gesture that he could not listen to anything like this. And look, where does all this go?Oh, my God! On the same side of today's work is the section Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kreditna banka Maribor and Abanka with a poor rating. Modis International credit rating agency reduced the rating for the New Ljubljana Bank and NKBM by all three criteria - for long-term risk, short-term risk and financial power. In this mandate and, in fact, the financial oligarchies of all coalitions, which are always the same throughout the history of this country, and you have absolute power over the financial oligarchy, despite the fact that the banks have been rehabilitated from the taxpayer's money, brought the banks back before bankruptcy and the country before bankruptcy. Again, it is necessary to rehabilitate banks with tax money. Economic expert Dušan Maramor says, and even Ivan Ribnikar agrees that the news is very bad for the entire economy, but expected. Economists, who were once government economists, say that this is the expected news. But Minister Križanič and the entire coalition are also carefree under this law. No, you're even dividing the readings on this side so it doesn't have to be. And here we see, the credit card house expects the situation to deteriorate further. Well, we're not at the bottom of a catastrophic situation yet. And of course, economic experts say that the banks are going to turn into committees again, into higher-interest savers, more will be consumed from the accounts. Whether you are our taxpayers, our citizens deserve it in this country. Look, and yet these banks are supervised by the supervisory councils, in at least one case, the President is one who has had two express financial affairs this summer. In the summer, the purchase of shares from the Ljubljana Bank of Mercury at a 2 times higher price, although the director of the state-owned company is 100% state-owned. And even though he was saving his fortune in Mercury with that one, he paid double the price. And instead of the country taking action, this is how we find, as in the Maribor Bank, no, it supports further. And the second affair that was published in Finance, he is the silent owner of the silent owner. The companies that cooperated with the state firm and, of course, paid them to fat ones because it went to the director then in his pocket and the minister did not react. Yeah, how long will you wait?Oh, my God! But according to my information, this same director is a silent owner in at least 15 other companies. And it's a leeches for the country. No, no, no. You don't act, even with mayoral candidates, even support people who are just like that. In the Slovenian Bistrica SD - Social Democrats, Zares and LDS together you plan the Taiwanese takeover of the municipality, both by candidate and by professional mayors, whom you will now introduce, who speak. The mayor already knows everything they're saying that a lot of people who even took Pahor off the railways will be from the control council because of a conflict of interest. But this can be taken over by the congregation, and Bistrica is placed in an impossible position to have our children swing there afterwards. I'm glad Minister Križanič learned today what a disaster he would have done if he went to some round table to support such an option, had it at 7:00 p.m. and canceled it. Although he is not here, he could but be aware that in this situation he cannot open up such options and such a Taiwanese takeover of a municipality that is important in Slovenia Bistrica, the country. [[...]] See, the accident does not come from itself, it has young people, we say, last week Mr Knupež died, is a true director, a member of the Mercury administration, who was the first to say transparently what your tycoon directors were like, what money they took, even at the expense of public finances. And banned one financial baron from entering this company. I hope that the police have done an exact autopsy and that the cause of death will in fact be clear, because otherwise they will forever doubt that this man did not die of natural causes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u63	Mr. Jerovšek. Many also talk about everything, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u64	I hope, I didn't say it was like that, but it was different. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u65	Pay attention to the agenda [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u66	Otherwise, a catastrophic mistake has been made. Of course, Merkur now, even though this is now a private company that has an outstanding impact on the public financial situation, will obviously not be resolved for the benefit of public finances, liability. See, I also read today that the Prime Minister of the Government said that, in reprogramming credits was obviously considerable, the extent of the restrictions that the State has made was much greater than we originally expected, so liquidity problems have arisen, he said. Now that the state is now working on order, the problem is, it weeps, regrets the Prime Minister, instead of saying that the judicial authorities should make sure that someone is finally responsible. No one's ever been tipped off by the police. I read here today that the court of Mark Jaklic has returned 300,000 euros. A young climber. Because the investigative judge refused to conduct proceedings and this was Mr. Jankovic's protector, because as soon as he finally had to resign in the Mutual, he went to the City Pharmacy and started there again with the others. [[?]] the methods. The set of financial irregularities is within your coalition so severe, so severe that you can easily defend it to the last, you will defend clearly that Slovenia will come into a worse situation than Greece and this time, if we come into such a situation and obviously we will, of course, the European Union for a small country will not be so solidarity, because in the long run it cannot go because Slovenia has had the opportunity to sober up in time under this government and it does not want to sober up and you do not want to change this law with any amendments so as to make it clear that it does not go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Mr. Frangež, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. While I understand that you have problems because it is very difficult to discuss and in everything that some in this Chamber have said today to keep the red thread of the debate and to remain on the subject that we are in. My predecessor has demonstrated how very creative, creative talk can be made about public financial responsibility. I often ask myself, given that Mr Jerovšek likes to be circumcised with young members of the Social Democrats, I think he says we are "fruteks" or something like that. Is it even worth answering these things and his discussions? However, in any case, the views I initially presented have nothing to do with me being relatively young, although even after this pay, my condition is getting worse, or that I am from Maribor. I am proud of both, and both circumstances have nothing to do with the positions I have presented today on behalf of the Social Democrats. However, you, Mr Jerovšek, after such a long parliamentary period, may already need to know that it is ever reasonable and appropriate to hold back a little. If I were you, I'd be quiet more than once. In any case, I would not attribute to others something they did not say and did not say. Mr Jerovšek tells me that I boasted that the condition of public finances is better today than the one you left us in 2008. I did not say this in the position of the Group of Social Democrats. However, I said that the financial situation you left us in 2008 was worse than the public financial situation you inherited in 2004. That's what I said. However, I firmly believe that in view of the burdens and commitments, the reduced public financial revenues due to the decisions of your government and the increased budget expenditure due to the decisions of your government, we are still, in fact, still in spite of the crisis in a relatively favourable public financial situation. Well, since you have also been a doctorate on the subject of tycoons, I think it is very clear in what period Slovenia's takunization took place and that today the economic picture of the many structural weaknesses of the Slovenian economy, especially within the banking system which this country will have to resolve, comes from the period 2004-2008. Write down your own political and other responsibility for the tycoonisation process.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u69	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm running out of time to say. May I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u71	Yes, please. Please, the rest of you, shut up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u72	So, I have a rare privilege of speaking so much directly behind my colleague Jerovsk. First, I must point out that I have not covered my ears, on the contrary, but I know that I should close my eyes more than once. That's the first thing. Another point, if I may comment on certain matters relating to the Taiwanese takeover of power in a congregation. My dear colleagues, this really reminds me of Alan Ford's comic book, where at the premises of an intelligence agency, I think the CIA, sitting down a group of agents, and one of them says, "We found out that in a friendly country, a group of citizens seized power with the help of free elections." So, I believe they are elections, and I believe that this will happen with the elections, that a group of citizens, if they do, will seize power with free elections. Now to the very darkness. As far as the tycoons are concerned, I'd say this when there's so much talk. I will not talk about these things, but the tycoon, the term tycoon was more or less foreign to Slovenia by 2004. We used it to name Russian rich people and someone else. In Slovenia, this concept was unknown. In 2008, he was one of the most used words in Slovenia. Consider why, and consider who ruled at that time. But I won't argue with anyone about these things, and at least with the current opposition. It is clear, however, that when a country or anyone is doing well, everyone has the credit for doing so when the country is failing, but others are always to blame. Today, this has proved to be the most convincing form here. Why am I in his goals, purposes and content? I don't know what it is. I'm not in any way going to support it. Because he's fundamentally unworthy. Because, if you want, it's insincere, because it's not possible to propose this law at the same time to limit the share of public spending to say more generally to 43% and at the same time support, defend the sentence and so on. That's impossible. It is clear, then, that there is some fundamental dishonesty in this and that this law has no real purpose when it is supposed to help the country from the crisis and the economy, but that some have a completely different political ideological purpose. This exposes you to acts, not words, in this case. And that is why, of course, this law cannot be supported in this way. What happened in this period after 2000 after the economic rise and crisis, there will be much talk about it at political and other levels, but it was clear, and I don't blame anyone, nor did the previous government, nor did you have any idea what was going on in 2008. Not even to a lot of other people. If you didn't have a little dream, you wouldn't have carried out a pay reform in the public sector. It's very clear to everyone, but there's no point in talking about it because it happened. It is clear that this government must resolve this issue and that it must solve it in a way that will preserve this public sector while, of course, maintaining the budget and public expenditure. So this government stands before the possibility, and the coalition with it, before or after it chooses more or less bad options. She's trying to choose less bad options, and she doesn't always have to succeed. But if she doesn't pick any, of course, it'll be the worst. So boasting about past merits can be beneficial if someone else believes, but what to do next is a little more difficult. You were talking about banks, about ratings. We know for ourselves what Slovenian banks are, whether they are in crisis or outside the crisis. They are small and dependant mainly on foreign financial markets, followed by the crisis in Slovenia and this is quite clear. When someone says sell the bank, put it in a bigger system, you'll see what you'll have in this House. We're just predicting this. I don't see one single recipe here, especially I don't believe that this crisis can be solved by classical Keynesian mechanisms. I mean, it's very difficult because the structure of this crisis and the society in which we live is quite different and is no longer linked to the classical industrial structure. At this point, what the Government has offered, in my view, is the least bad enough to get us out of this crisis and start some economic upturn. What you have offered is simply a story for some other time, this is a story that does not answer the problem, but tries to achieve some political effects, so of course I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u73	Mr. Visjak as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Of course, it is difficult to listen to what I just heard in the office, so much gossip, even from the President of Parliament. First, he found out, and again he is turning the issue of limiting public and public finances to tycoons. Dear Mr Gantar, the tycoons have been revealed during the previous government period, so they have been written and spoken about. And today, in fact, they also have some sad fates. So much money and political pedigree of tycoons is known. They all belong, to the last, to the current coalition, and I don't know any of them from the current opposition, not one. So, think about it a little bit. Of course, the tycoons under your rule were nice in the watt and in the shelter of your political protection. By the way, you were also a minister in previous governments, and you were born this tycoon, and you didn't tell me that there was a Merfin, that there was an Adkaprima and a similar pair of tycunization circuits, that they were created under the mandate of the previous government. But you can probably do so much objectivity. Another nonsense that has been said and again masks the essence of this law is to propose, on the one hand, limiting public financial expenditure or the expenditure of the wider sector of the country to a percentage of what has been created, with a statement in the public sector. If you are consistent, go to the opposition's proposals so far and you can see that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals have been more radical to the public sector than they are now on the table. We have said and stressed several times, and I stress here again today that we believe that, in particular, state appliances and the wider public sector are inefficient in terms of the needs of the modern country and Slovenia. That Slovenia has in fact transferred and even shared with the European Union, the euro area and all other associations by entering international organisations, so it would be appropriate to optimise our countries, business processes, to address the needs of the modern country and to define them with the State and public administration what will be the future. And here to find reserves and, of course, optimize and save in the public sector, and that is why we have also proposed through budgets a 10% reduction in expenditure, if you remember, amendments in each budget and you are banalising here with this sentence. That's incorrect. Third. This one's the strongest. You had no idea in 2008 what would happen and what happened. In the previous term, the government prepared four laws at the time of its departure. The four laws of which you have fortunately summarized, and unfortunately you two have not summarized, are mentioned today by the finance minister, who has partially mitigated the consequences of the financial crisis. The reform of the pay system began in 2002 to 2004 with the former Minister of Public Administration, Gregor Virant took a bite into this sour apple and continued negotiations with the public sector where yours, in the previous government, where you also sat, left them. The negotiations were open to the public. It was sour apples and the public sector needed to be negotiated. The negotiations were tough and took place from 2004 to 2007. No, they didn't start and end in 2008, as you suggested. That's incorrect. That's a trick that's misleading the public. And you shouldn't afford it, because you know it well and you're actually working out of this problem now. That's not right, that's not fair. The negotiations ran from 2004 to 2007 and ended with a signature. And they started to get involved in the crisis, which is the problem. And then you would perform, and we should actually face new circumstances in the case of signed things. That's what we asked you to do, but you didn't. And here to reverse, as I would say, the responsibility of the previous government as well as that of Mr Frangež, who even said that the public financial situation was better during 2004 when the government of Janez Janša appeared on the basis of the 2008 public financial situation. You've left a lot of dead people in the financial cabinets. 50 million euros is missing there, 150 there. We've been saving about six months of these skeletons, and we haven't been complaining because it's irresponsible. Jamra, if you take over the exercise, solve the problems, not bark and point your finger at the back. Just like you've been doing for two more years, two more years now. And let's get back to it. What do we suggest? We propose the country's public responsibility to spend as much as we create and nothing more in the wider sector. And you're suggesting that we spend, they say, "Haku mi kapum" continues as it has been so far. We are against it, and not just us, against it is the economy and probably more and more citizens. This government is not aware of the public financial problems we are facing, it is working on a post-negative scenario that has caused chaos in many countries of the European Union and the euro area and that is why we are opening this discussion. And you're actually opening up some cursors to the past and from these current problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has reached out to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u76	Yes, of course, I must say that I had no idea that I would trigger such a violent response by the proposer of this law of mags. A visionary. Look, mag. A visor. Whether the tycoons are yours or ours, I will not argue with you about this, it is an honor to argue about these things. That's definitely the way. Again, in 2004, the word tycoon was foreign, and in 2008 it was one of the most useful words. Think about it. The salary reform, more than that, is even adopted in the years 2002, 2004. I have also spoken to Secretary of State Gregor Virant several times, and I can only tell you that I have always personally opposed this reform, because I wanted to tell lawyers that it is not possible to get the full variety of professions in the public sector on a scale of nothing to 65. That it is not possible that this is pointless, that this is a business that will cause ever-new problems and cause them with or without crisis. As for the fact that you had no idea in 2008 what was going on, be calm, it was not even for many people in Slovenia and outside of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Vizjak has signed up as a candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u78	Dear Mr Gantar, I suggest that you read the magnetogram of what you said before and what you have done after my intervention, and you will see the diametric contradiction.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u79	Thank you. It's Mr. Kres' turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We note that we are indebted, according to some of the data I have been able to obtain, we are not yet among the most indebted countries in Europe and the world, but we need to act to ensure that this does not happen to us. So we can say that if we are already criticizing the previous government that we were in good shape somewhere, because we also needed to be credited. So, if you're in good shape, you could've credited yourself. It is true that the Kenesian model is not the best example to be moderated and I think we are capable of doing so in Slovenia. But it is also true that the world needs change. The consumption that has been happening in recent times in the world has also been unnecessary. It will have to be spent in terms of directed towards organic consumption and could still be listed, but we will not solve this in this House today, but not in this time of government. It will also have to be agreed that if the world economy grows by 3%, everyone plans 6, 7, 8%, most likely some will lose, they will lose, and that worries me because we are on the losing side right now. We in the Slovenian People's Party immediately at the beginning of the mandate, which also coincides with the outbreak of the economic, financial crisis, have warned that the government should invest and promote domestic consumption. At a time when the crisis occurs, the Kenyan model and private investment require state intervention. Today, when we talk about excessively indebted people, I can say that I agree with the need to preserve the social state, and even in the Slovenian People's Party, we have never opposed the responsibility of maintaining the social state. But we are convinced that it is necessary to help people to have a job. The task should be focused on work and, in this way, the funds would certainly be simpler and in the most efficient way used, would be fertilised. We have warned that there are no projects at national level that could encourage this investment, and we have warned: let us invest at local level. Investments would spread across the country, there are projects at local level and work could be done at local level. I must say that we are also convinced that we could follow the path of Poland, which has even recorded 1.2% growth at this time. Unfortunately, however, I find that the congregations are solving this, of course they are also in debt, but the conditions will run out. Simply, the country should listen and the government should listen. At that time, we also warned that we should do something to mitigate the real estate crisis. At that time, we warned that it would be necessary to approach young families to be able to be credited for a longer period, and this would also be a contribution. Unfortunately or otherwise, our structure of the economy is such that construction investments can have positive effects. And as long as our structure is that way, we have to invest in this area. If that were the case, I am sure that our gross social product would be higher or at least remain at the level that it was before the outbreak of the crisis, and this lending would also be more moderate. Of course, this could be much easier to deal with than the unemployment crisis, as unemployment would be, but certainly not as much as it is now. And there is something else I have seen in these debates today. Do you remember when we in the Slovenian People's Party warned about unreasonablely high excise duties on oil derivatives? At that time, we warned that the sale of oil derivatives would fall, as well as the purchases from this title. And that's what happened. Today, about this kind of school vacation story is repeated. The tourism economy recalls that this will have a negative impact on the economy. And please, on the basis of this experience, the government could have listened because it's so little necessary here that I wouldn't be playing with it right now. And I'd listen to those who warn. Teachers and parents also warn that they would rather see vacations organized as they were. I have to say it's not all the government's fault, not the last one. This has been the case, but every government must act. And that's what we're asking the government right now. In this regard, this law is welcome and necessary. I'd like to say one last thing. I think that a list of critical managers, managers who do not deserve to be managers, blacklist managers should be introduced and published once in Slovenia. Look, they're not all in the same basket. Many of them are doing well, working hard, and tragic events are also taking place. While some who have failed one company come to another company, they do not have any entrepreneurial moral values. He totally doesn't care if his colleague fails, in short, all the entrepreneurial knighthood has disappeared in this country. I don't think we deserve that in Slovenia. With our smallness we could be in advantage, and I say that Slovenia could be the good sparrow who can live well from small businesses that can still be obtained and are still market niches in which to work. Of course, the restructuring of the economy must also be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I would not want to repeat too much or repeat what they have already said before me. I think today's debate is good for one reason in particular: we have all heard too many times in our exchanges of views, such as that it is sufficiently created in this country, it is only divided in the wrong way, in short, it is not fairly divided, and otherwise our country is rich. It's wrong that only some are rich, but most are not. Today's debate, too, is not yet a debate on how we will all create more together, but at least halfway through the debate on how we will share and how much of what we will create. So from this point of view, I think it makes sense. It is a fact and this may also show us some experience from the past from other countries, such as Scandinavian, that the share of gross social product used for such or other purposes of the country does not in itself say anything. In the 1970s, Scandinavian countries raised this public consumption from the I don't know, the 25's, the 30's to over 40's to 50%, but what it meant. This meant a stronger social state and a higher quality of living for their citizens. The countries are responding differently to this economic crisis and the recession in which we are. Some prefer to solve the economy and believe that, as we hear from the proponents, a successful economy will solve all other problems, which are among them ours, and have decided to take care of people first and then solve capital. First, to expand and thicken the network of social assistance if you want and therefore, in the area of unemployment, for example, this crisis has hit our country less than any other. However, there are, of course, other indicators, such as the competitiveness of the economy or if you want a favourable environment for the noble capital, on which scale our country has fallen. Because I don't have a lot of capital, don't worry. I also believe that with the same measures that have brought us into the crisis, this crisis cannot be solved. As it is said, it seems good to me that we are aware of how much of what we can spend, but it does not always seem to me that we will commit ourselves to how much of what we are going to spend. If, of course, the needs are to dictate some year more consumption, they will. Of course, it is also necessary to be aware of the years when saving will not be so urgent, but it is good and welcome, because we can never know when the economic situation will be worse than it is. As a matter of fact, I find this problem to be good, but the commitment is too binding and unproductive, so I cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, we've been talking for quite some time now about a situation that has nothing to do with it. We go through it, like many people do, on the beautiful grass in the park that needs to be mowed and so on, but it's not our theme. Our topic today is something else. We have submitted a law that is relatively clear. The expenditure of the wider sector should therefore be reduced to 43% by 2013. So this is our core issue, let's drop to 46 in 2010, then to 45, 44 and so on. That's a lot to tell people at home. In your own way, say in that style that every farmer understands if the caste is empty, that he can only use what he has and no longer has. Our country, however, has been extremely indebted during the period of this government. On our website, one stoplight, which skips 40 euros every second, you can see the matter. Perhaps it would be better if we put him here in front of parliament so that people can see it better. This is therefore a problem, and this is our concern and our desire to contribute to the situation of improvement in this area. We therefore want to achieve that the country will spend less and nothing else. But when we talk about the public finances situation, you know, it's lucky, or we're very lucky to have Members so we can lie, but nothing happens. And some of the huge lies, the lies that have been told, say, by Mr. Frange, and someone else, are the ones that actually hurt me. He compares some financial situation in 2004 and 2008, i.e. the Janšev government, and says that the situation in 2004 was better than in 2008. Look, people can even believe if they like these statements, but the truth isn't. In 2004, the former government adopted all the state-owned cash registers that this country even has in deep red numbers. Everything was a minus, from the pension fund, to the state budget, the health treasury and everything else. Everything was down. Let people admit it, at least the Prime Minister admits something sometimes, and then you're quiet when he says it, but sometimes you don't listen to him. In 2008, the government, which means that Janšev's government left the country's control in a state where no state treasury had a minus. There was enough for pensioners, there was enough in the health treasury and the state treasury, so the narrower budget had a plus. It's a real state. And wages increased during that period, and more than inflation, which had been so severely troubled, had made some extraordinary meeting at the expense of inflation. But the wages went up. Today, however, the situation is quite different. I'm in a lot of pain if the president of the National Assembly is telling the truth, and some other MPs have been talking about what? They spoke again about 2008, about the year of fat cows, about the bonbons that the previous government had taken over, about the collective agreement signed by the previous government because it was benevolent, it is said, to individual groups of unions. Let me warn you again, on 7. 9. At 3:15 p.m., the President of the Government sat behind this chair. He then said: "When a collective contract for the public sector was adopted in the first half of 2008, economic growth was 6.3%. No one can point to Minister Virant, nor to the government in the previous term, who has tried to justly eliminate certain imbalances and injustices." Stop denying your own Prime Minister now. I'd be embarrassed. He told you that. And now stop talking about what the collective agreement was like, and so on, how we treated the previous government to the unions, and I don't know who else. No, it's not. The Prime Minister told you that. But you know, from some ears to the brain that's been zipping it for five months, as it took in 2009, some gentlemen figured out that the Constitutional Court's decisions could be criticised, but they should be respected, and I was asked to resign earlier. I mean, a disaster. The Prime Minister needs to tell you that. Let's move on. There was a lot of connection to that sentence. You have a lot of problems with that sentence. Yeah, of course you do. It's perfectly normal. Don't tell us we're supporting the strike, not reading it because you're spitting in your own pocket. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of adoption, I also explained this on my website, Mr Anderlich, because you are visiting her, you will be able to read it more carefully if you want, see, the situation is relatively clear. Why do these people strike? Don't tell them now that they want 100 million. These people have offered you a 20-year-old in the negotiations. But negotiations aren't negotiation if you get there, and you say this is goodbye. Take it or leave it. Yeah, well, then it's not a negotiation. Then you think they're crazy. So, if these people strike, I already made it very clear at this performance in the National Assembly, the state treasury is empty and it is not possible to increase wages. That's clear to me, too. But look, you painted these people, you brought these unions around. Seven unions of the 29th, representing 40%, were declared representative by law. And these 7 unions with Mr. Struklo at the head, who signed on to your wishes, should now apply to all trade unions in Slovenia. Yeah, they resisted that. And that's right, they resisted because you insult them because you think they're crazy. But people will fully understand that there is no money, and that wages cannot be raised, but step for a payphone, as I have told you, the Prime Minister should step for a pay phone and say that the state treasury is empty, there is no money, you can't get anything. We have the heads of government and the states that stand in front of the cameras and say we're gonna take 20% of your money. This is also the case in Europe. Romania and Ireland. You just have to have the balls to tell people that. Not to say, social dialogue is going on, we're good and beautiful, 7 unions are the majority. Of course, that does not work, and people do not accept it in any way. And in this context, it is right to strike, not for money, my dears. Correct, and it would be right if we added no money there, empty is a cash register, if we said anything else, we stuck the country in, and we left. Look, that would be the right thing to do and the right thing to do. We are therefore talking about the need to reduce the country's expenditure by 2013. And you're not ready, are you? Because you still think you can spend as much as people create. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Franzege. He's not here. Mr. Minister, your turn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u86	I'd like to thank you for the fruitful debate. There were a number of questions that were open. The main question on the subject alone is in fact how to define a fiscal rule. So my opinion is that the fiscal rule to define as 46% of the gross domestic product is impossible because in this case we do not know how much gross domestic product will be. Now, we could make an assessment and, on the basis of this assessment, create a fiscal rule, and in this case, we would very much restrict against the conjunctural role of fiscal policy. If the High Council decides to do so, of course, this is technically possible and it is not economically meaningful. However, I would suggest, despite the extensive debate that this law should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Visjak, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It is true, Mr. Secretary, that a crucial discussion today was about the fiscal rule. In fact, the ruling coalition advocates a fiscal rule to limit public spending, absolutely. About 10 billion euros. In the drafter, we say no in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Public expenditure should be limited to the share of the resulting expenditure. In fact, we can make this very simple in the case of the family budget. If we have a family budget that's worth, I don't know, 20,000 euros a year, then the family probably spends around this created, about 20,000 euros if nothing saves or if nothing gets caught in the savings. If one member of the family becomes unemployed and the family's income falls to 15 000 euros because he receives some social transfers, then it is likely that the family's expenditure must be set to a new value, to 15,000 euros. For if they continue to be set at EUR 20,000, it will be necessary to make an annual commitment for these EUR 5,000. And as long as something goes into mortgage or credit insurance, the family will receive credit and, of course, will increase its debt and its exposure to creditors, specifically the bank in this case. It's not stable. And that is what we wish to warn you, my dear colleagues. It's not stable. If we bind our expenditure to the wider sector of the country in absolute terms irrespective of what is created, we propose that we do so according to the percentage of gross domestic product created. And we propose percentages that have already proven to be possible in Slovenia. Indeed, the country still started with around 43% of the country's spending in 2008. And this, of course, increased dramatically until 2010. And now we propose to go gradually back, by 2013, to the expenditure of the wider sector of the country, to 43% of gross domestic product. If we create more, this 43% gross domestic product will be more, if we create less, this 43% will be less. This is, in my opinion, a very convincing fiscally sound fiscal rule. That is not true, Minister, I would say in this case that this fiscal rule has a stranger called GDP or gross domestic product in the future. There is no finance minister to draft the budget, and there is no government to adopt the draft budget, and there is no Parliament to adopt the draft budget for the future if there is no GDP forecast. The announcement by OMAR, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development regarding the generated gross domestic product for the future, is, for 2011, 2012, and so on, the basis for the budget. That's the basics. And if you say that this is why our fiscal rule is announced by the GDP for the future stranger, then it is also a stranger to your budgets, which you will soon bring to Parliament and you have already brought to Parliament. Growth generated by gross domestic product is the basis for determining the budget, because otherwise there is no budget to be made. And then you usually "cut yourself off" because you've never done it too optimisticly, and then you rebalance it later down, because you have a certain revenue coming in. Therefore, the planning of the public finances of the budget has always been based on forecasts. That is why in this country we have the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development to give something of itself and that what it does has some weight, and on this you build your documents. That is why I think that this fiscal rule is realistic, meaningful and convincing. The difference between us in the opposition and you in the government is as follows: you see the stabilisation of public finances in a way that increases tax inflows from excise duties, you also talk about increasing social security contributions, you talk about the new law and the inflows from property taxation and so on. However, we see the stabilisation of public finances primarily in saving on those unnecessary expenditure of the country that is not important for future development, and these are quite something.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u89	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Mr Križanič has also raised his hand; we will take into account, Mr Minister. Otherwise, an application for discussion is pending. 34, every two minutes and a half. Is that all right? Every two minutes and a half. Mr Magaina, please, please, he's giving up. Mr. Kumer, he's giving up. Mr. Rezman, he's giving up. Mr. Crossman, he's giving up. Mr. Frangez, he's giving up. Mr. Rozjej, too. Mr. Kres, he's giving up. Mr. Clown, he's giving up. Mr. Klavora, he's giving up. Mr. Han, he's giving up. Mr. Lah, he's giving up. Mr. Anderlich, Mr. Anderlich, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Mencinger, he's giving up. Mrs. Črnak Meglič - cancels. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u90	Well, I was actually happy, because I'm only 15, and I'm talking first. So apparently my closing act was so convincing to my colleagues that they would support this marriage. I think this law is an important direction for the government. This law is a guiding principle that in the future, a country of the wider sector can spend only as much and only as much as it creates its economy. Do you know why this is useful? Due to the fact that the state will work harder or harder or even work harder to create something for the economy. For today, when I am following in fact an economic policy or policy of incentives to strengthen the economy, I must say that, apart from some long-term measures related to the drawing-up of European funds negotiated in the past, I will not say so in the previous mandate, but in the past, there are no other serious encouraging policies in this area. However, they are insurmountable policies, but they are policies that add to the burden on the economy. And I'll count three cases. The first example of policies burdening the economy is certainly a excise policy, raising excise duties has caused additional costs to the economy, not to mention lowering the standard of living of people, but at the same time not bringing public finances. Indeed, the government in its half-year budget implementation report notes that there is less revenue than planned during the half-year and less revenue from excise duties than in the first half of last year. This is the first measure which is a bar and a blow to the economy. The second measure is certainly a new real estate tax law, which says that business, industrial facilities will be taxed with a 5-fold or 7-fold of what is taxed by residential buildings and will certainly bring an additional burden. So instead of taking measures to revive the economy and thereby increase economic growth, and not least more budget opportunities and space, the government is warming up with, in fact, an idea or an idea to further burden the economy [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Minister indicated a possible increase in contributions to health and pension insurance, excise duties, that is to say, these unfortunate taxes on real estate and so on. [[...]] So... [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this marriage because I do not see one serious purpose in this marriage. What the opposition is proposing today, the government has already done and intends to reduce its debt by means of measures. So it's one honest intention and responsibility. I would also like to say how serious the opposition really means by this law, more than half of them are missing today, so it was again one of the farce in the National Assembly and an experiment in the pre-election period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u94	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We may all be missing because we know who decides who the authority is in this country and we feel every day at every step of who the power is in this country. So let's get some pure wine and not those demagogues. I must say that as long as I listened to the Prime Minister in this Chamber, who is telling us more stories about our bright future every day, I was somewhat concerned, but today, when I listened to the Minister of Development, I must say, but I am really worried. Otherwise, it is very difficult to count that a minister who was the author of such a creative solution when he was the Minister of Finance, that the budget was designed to count 13 months between revenue and 12 months, and he said, here is a great balance sheet, that he was able to find a solution to the outcome of the public financial crisis in which we are, irrespective of, and here meets one of the most responsible sources and at least, here today we expected him to explain in an argument why the government opposes this law. We didn't hear those arguments because you just don't have them. It is quite clear that public spending needs to be limited and that it needs to be tied to what is being created, otherwise in a few years we will come into a situation where you eat more than you create. Where did I ask you? Maybe from that European mechanism that you threw two billion euros into. I think it'll be too late. The purpose of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party was to help the government. It also helps to establish, re-establish, dialogue with the social partners it has disrupted. Without this dialogue, the government will not be able to limit public spending. It is not true that trade unions are not prepared to talk and that they do not understand the situation, but they do not understand how it is possible for the government to spend a large spoon on all segments of public spending, that it is not able to behave rationally and economically, that it cannot solve any minor problem called falcon, that it is always creating new and new agencies, always new and new parastatal institutions to care for those who have 800 000 euros of annual wages in construction companies, but are not able to pay 500 euros to their employees. People and unions just don't get it. This law, which would limit public spending, would be the way to re-establish dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Brultz. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much. It's very nice, so many people sign up to pick up time for those who might have something to say. But this is the situation, the government has already done, we have heard it said again, I don't know how a unique statement is worth almost the Nobel Prize. If the government did something and did something, this law, which we proposed, would not have to be tabled. Thus, during its term of office or, if I go a little further, 27% of GDP, the gross social product was long in 2004. When we left the government, there were 22.7 or 8. That means 4% less. Today it will be 35% by the end of the year. So that's what this government would do if it did something. What this government doesn't do is what it does. And that's why we're proposing this law. That's why we're proposing this law. In other words, EUR 6 000 is owed to each Slovenian, of which about EUR 2 000 in this mandate you owe him. I'm about to say, or maybe even something more. These are the reasons why we are proposing a law. No, in here, out here. They're gonna pay for the grandkids. That's the thing. However, when we spoke earlier about these unions and sentences, there is something else to say. I'm just reading the news that the consequences of the police strike are 2 million euros a day. So if police officers strike only 40 or exactly 50 days, there will be 100 million in the state budget, and that could make it all worth it. But there is something to be said. No, you didn't go against these people. You did not go the other way, not speaking again from the point of view of money, but from the point of view of social dialogue, which, of course, you have completely suppressed in them and that is the problem. Let's give the truth, not the lie, but it would be the most clever and acceptable, at least as far as the financial situation in the country is concerned if you compare the period 2004, 2008 and today's situation, which we know is completely absurd. This is why we have proposed this law, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I had no intention, but I would just like to say that to talk about how the government should ensure that the economy will open up new jobs and I do not know what economic growth has made it possible in these circumstances, but misthinking. Where did a billion disappear on account of the abolition of taxes on paid wages? It has disappeared in the economy, without jobs and without investment. And I do not believe that there would be an increase in the number of jobs or investments, even if we gave the economy a billion in hand. We once reduced social security contributions by 6%, almost 7%, and talked about how this would go in investment and jobs. None of this happened. The only pension facility has holes bigger every day. I mean, it's nice to talk about how to help the economy, but it's not possible to completely abolish taxes, neither is contributions and not putting the world on top of it. And no government today would rule with enormous success because it is a global crisis, whether the gentlemen are fit or not. We are part of this world that has hit us. We are living in an unfavourable situation, they are unfavourable, and together we should look for solutions to the crisis, but not with foolish proposals like this one, talking about how we should save 5 billion and not a single sentence on how we would actually do it and how we would achieve it. It's like they say, there's a pool in there, jump in there, but we'd shut up if it was empty, there's no water. This is how I see this law, so I cannot support it, and I think it is right to say that we will just have to wait for the recovery of the economy in the world and in us. The government, however, is working on conditions and doing what it can. There are few who would do a miracle with a magic wand and solve problems at once just as you report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. My hope that you will stop the speakers when they meet here after the National Assembly of Vulgarism is empty, just as it is empty for my hope that the law, which otherwise speaks of public financial responsibility, with three articles that promise endless opportunities to discuss anything, everything and nothing, could eliminate what tends to be the Slovenian society. Above all, today's debate is evidence of how a few hours can be discussed. If I followed some of my fellow Members who wanted to refer to school practice, then I would say that many of the debaters would not get enough because the content was not related to the title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Franco. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. I didn't do the illusion at the beginning when I delivered the opinion of the parliamentary group that had established this law, but I'm not saying that it was this or that form. It can certainly be completed by appropriate professional measures and amendments in such a way as to make it necessary and possible to apply it. But I always try not to miss the topic of reducing investments at all levels, i.e. state investment, private investment, opportunities to create private investment and so on. But I have a feeling, and we have been warning my colleagues for many years, that there is an increasing potential for relaunching investments. Thus, investments are linked to a huge part of the Slovenian economy, not only in construction. It's about construction, I don't know, some of it's 50 branches. I spoke to people this afternoon who are in the real sector, who are responsible for the business of these companies when I talk about investment. So these are the companies that pay taxes and all these companies. We have also over the past years, and in the previous term we have been accelerating extremely abnormally some state investments. What was the result? A lot of equipment for individual companies, a lot of human resources, and today we have what we have. So companies just can't live anymore and can't pay taxes after all. And there's something else. Last time I was in Primorska, I noticed a lot of foreign gas pumping. But only along the border with Italy, while I'm driving daily and, for example, at a large gas station in Lukovica, believe me, I'm no longer a foreign trucker to refuel oil for a good time. I think we need to think about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Chappich. He's quitting. Mr. Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u104	I can't resist the call, but I'll try to be brief. I would like to draw attention to this Article, although there is not yet a debate on the articles. The provision of the previous Article must be implemented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by centralising state expenditure on so-called non-developmental budget items. Why not? This should be more specific. On wage items, social transfers and material costs. Why didn't you write it like that? Why did you avoid it? And we would open a very interesting debate on whether or not you are sure. I didn't. Not in the previous or in this government that all that is on so-called development items is actually development. I would find a lot of things that are not development, and a lot of things, and if we used an old part of intellectual capital in Slovenian public administration, I'm sure, that would be exclusively for us, we could have a much more efficient country. This is an article and therefore a provision that actually allows everyone to say that its heading is the development of construction, high-water retainers, is a developmental item, although it is a pure cost, because it will, for example, prevent the damage to some development from happening in the future. Everything could be done with this item, not just so-called development programmes. That's bad. Such solutions are true, I would say, bring all the people, those who look at it, around and move. If you've already written the law, at least tell me exactly where to take it. And the other thing is. Once again, for these matters, for this crisis, which is not only Slovenian but also Slovenian, there are no simple, there are no clean solutions and there is no magic wand. Where there's demagogy and there's bad writing for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Kolarich. He's quitting. Mr. Potts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I think it is right to say and point out that honourable Members and Members of the SDS have tabled this law only so that they can prove again in the coming days how they are able to save this country with the simplest receptions. In fact, this is a bill which, as some colleagues have already said, is double. At the same time, you talk about social dialogue and you adopt or propose a law whereby social transfers, then also pensions, would be frozen. More than that, they should be substantially reduced if we reach the amount you are proposing in Article 2. Give it to people honestly, but not to be as demagogic as you're going with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Potč, we have not proposed any freezing, and there is nowhere to be seen in this law. And look, it is right that, once again, we say here that this is not the first law in this mandate that the Slovenian Democratic Party is investing in, in the belief that it could contribute to the fact that this crisis, which is growing in Slovenia, is also trying to resolve slowly. The statements we're hearing here today, "we have to wait for better times." Yeah, why are we here? Let the economy wait for us to do this, especially the government, which will enable them to recover more quickly. Because if we wait here for better times, I think this crisis is going to be very long. It is also interesting to hear a statement by the Minister, at least this is how it was possible to read in the Finance Journal today that GDP growth was to be expected only in 2013 and then, Mr Minister, you promise to raise wages. I hope that you are all aware together that in 2013 you and this coalition will not be in this position. Which means you're delaying something for a period when it's no longer in your jurisdiction, which I think is misleading and irresponsible. Once again, as I have already said, Mr Minister, you have somehow considered this law inappropriate, calling for it not to be accepted, but it would be the most helpful. I believe you have a lot of pressure when you talk about the budget in the government and you could refer to it. I don't know why you're rejecting such a proposal. And your strategy, based on the fact that taxes will continue to increase, especially taxes, is wrong. See, also the criticism of the professional public, the macro economists, who certainly do not belong to our political options and are closer to the ruling coalition, are so far almost able to say united when they assess the government's work as bad or as bad as ever. At least let them listen and try to follow the measures you are also taking by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The point is, my buddy Potsch told me. Now I hear that we are predicting what will happen in 2013 and at the same time you are predicting that there will be no more government. Of course there will be an election. But in the past, decisions have been made that have reached this mandate. And this is a decision taken at plus 8% GDP growth, free kindergartens, free nutrition. And all of this fell at the time of the crisis. And also the wage reform for such GDP growth has been planned and you want us to realize it now, in a time of crisis, when this is not actually growing. This marriage you proposed, someone earlier spoke of the Nobel Prize. We would really deserve the Nobel Prize if it were a recipe for getting out of the crisis. But you act like you are in a crisis in Slovenia, and everywhere else, honey and milk flow. At the same time, you're talking about freezing wages. At the same time, you also say that you are not to freeze wages because you agree that a sentence is necessary and even support it. So we're gonna have to decide what we want. If we are talking about saving, and if this law, which you have written, were to achieve in one article the goal, and in the other, the task of the Government to achieve this goal, if we were to take this law seriously and if the National Assembly were to adopt this law, and if we were to save where you wrote it down, on non-developmental budget lines, then we know what would happen: not freezing wages, not even to freeze wages in this case under your law, wages should be reduced or the number of employees should be reduced. It's not as easy as you wrote it down. You cannot at the same time do that you want to reduce inflows to the budget and increase expenditure in the way you have done it in the past, but now you demand that these expenditure be reduced, but not that the rights of all those who count on these funds on the expenditure side of the budget are reduced. So that's not how it works, and of course I won't consider this law suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Member Janez Kikelj has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] The word is Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is difficult to support a law if not even half of those who have proposed it. However, some interesting thoughts were expressed in this debate. It is not important for this country who will still be in politics or not in 2013 but Slovenia and these people will certainly live here and deserve optimism, more work and better results. I also heard how much we lose when cops don't punish, but now I know that in times of some other government they were really sent to the streets with orders to collect for wages or regress. I am glad that this is no longer happening today, despite the fact that they strike for security and what people expect them to do. My most serious debate would be devoted to paying in the public sector. This flat-line current arrangement, which is proposed, of course, is not ideal. The situation in public administration should be imagined, overturned, in many ways. There are methods and ways to measure the impact of public workers. Because if you compare two with the same salary, the same situation, I have experience from local self-government, that the difference in their work is also 100% different, that two who receive the same salary, one does more than the other. This is the topic, motive and challenge if there is significantly less investment in this country than there was. Then it should also be considered that in the public sector, in the public administration, there is certainly too much or too much of a job and it would be easier to forgive those who do not achieve the expected results and objectives to consider how this should be accompanied by appropriate legislation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In fact, there is a difference in the conceptual approach. The government advocates an updated Marxist concept when it is necessary to give every minister as much as he thinks he owns or as much as he wishes, at his will. We don't support this concept. We support the concept that desire and consumption must be tied to what has been created, to the results and to such a model of ours - more rational and for which we are certainly more suitable. In fact, there is no rational explanation that we have fallen significantly more in the last two years than other economies have fallen, and that we are now making significant progress and rising as other economies are advancing, Eastern or Western. Something in this concept doesn't work. And when we talk about these things, it makes sense to say something else. We somehow did not promise anything irrational, we did not promise a thousand euros of minimum wage and we did not promise a thousand euros of minimum pension. All this has already happened within the mandate of this government, and so have the ministers of this government. Despite the fact that we have already been in deep crisis. And speaking of where something can be saved is certainly not a good time to give 150 million euros for the development of the toll system. I'm sure it's not a good time. absolutely unnecessary cost because this model that we will develop will not be compatible with any of the neighbouring models. And neither do we, my fellow Members of the Council, propose no freeze, nor do we propose any irrational move. We suggest that those who run this country somehow sober up, calm down, and that we regulate consumption in such a way that it is linked to creation is a gross product. Everything else is irrational and unfortunately young economists also support this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Breda Pacan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that the last time I listened to a debate by one of the opposition Members, who was talking about how inquality, distasteful, deplorable, delicacy, delicacy, my friend Dusan would say the Shalabarizer laws are being prepared by our government and officials in it. I don't know what we could call this marriage. The most basic terms of the Public Finance Act cannot be used. For example, it says that within 15 days of the adoption of this law, the Government must prepare a rebalancing of state budgets for 2010 and 2011 and so on. For 2010, the budget balance could be drawn up. For 2011, we cannot accept the budget rebalancing, but we can accept the 2011 budget change because the 2011 budget has already been adopted. I must say I'm sorry, but as highly professional people as I hear debates from the bench over there on the right side of the National Assembly to allow themselves to make such scarves mistakes. By saying that shabbabism doesn't mean anything offensive. It just means someone's in the wall. The second thing I would say is what the President of the National Assembly mentioned earlier: the provision of the previous Article must be implemented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by rationalising state expenditure on so-called non-development budget lines. The first thing is, although it's probably the one who typed those two words "no developmental" that probably underlined him with red and that's why he went and separated you from two words. "On so-called," that's not what the law says. If we know anything about nomotechnics, we don't use those terms. However, since you did not hope to write down the salaries of public servants, you have, of course, used the term "on so-called non-developmental budget lines". Shame on you. Your president says, in Finance today, "yes, because the government has rejected the reasonable compromise offered by the Possession unions. This would cost less than the consequences of the sentence." Mr Janša [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u117	Mrs. Roach, thank you very much. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, it's just that your debate is closed. At the time when you were applying to the debate, the Minister also asked for the floor. Dr. France Križanič, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Short response, maybe. Mag. Vizjak mentioned the household principle in budget planning. This household principle that you just spend every year as much as you have is, of course, essentially inappropriate for the management of budgetary policy. Budget policy must have a budgetary deficit during the recession, and during the period of the budget surplus, then reserves are created and the average budget is then balanced. I have already mentioned in the debate that the tax rates that maintained such a budget in relation to the Slovenian social state and the development tasks ahead of us, the establishment of the marble tax reform, were a little too harsh and were somewhat popular in 2005. However, the structure of 2006 has not been launched; this has reduced these tax rates so much that now we no longer have a balanced budget and now this proposal is a bill and an attempt to save one such, so Slavoljub Žižek would call it forced saving, and people who would do so would experience the so-called excess enjoyment. History is unconscious, I think it's that book. Mr Gorenak then cited the growth of debt. This debt growth is not only linked to the financing of the deficit, it is linked to pre-financing and to the financing of the repayments of loans made in the previous period and will decrease in absolute debt as a share of the budget and over time. The fact is that we have a macroeconomic debt that has increased from 15 billion to 39 billion in four years or one and a half times exceeded 100% of the gross domestic product, and this is the real debt of the Slovenians, these are the deficits. That'd be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on public financial liability is suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, we will conclude that the law is appropriate for further consideration because we believe that the law is necessary because it simply stabilises or lays down certain frameworks for the future budget and for the spending of the state or wider sector of the country. This needs to be clearly defined and limited, and it is true that the budget and public finances cannot be viewed only at the annual level and it is also true that in times of recession there is usually a deficit that needs to be filled at the time of the transition. If I recall correctly, there is at least one minister of this government, the current [[?]] has also been the finance minister of the past governments, when there has been virtually some moderate economic growth in Slovenia since 1995 and there has never been a budget surplus. It's always a drawback, and it's nice that now the ministers and I would say, the government shares the teachings that it's necessary to create a surplus in a time of fat cows and conjuncture that has never been created before. On the contrary, in the mandate of the previous government, we were able to generate one surplus of the public financial and budgetary surplus in 2007, probably even in 2008, if it were not already recorded in the last quarter of the crisis. We therefore believe that it is necessary to limit the public consumption and consumption of the wider sector of the country, given the gross domestic product created and that it is particularly important to make sure that the country generates a larger gross domestic product. This is, of course, done with active policy in several areas, fiscal policy, not least by providing the necessary financial resources for the economy and the last blow that both state banks have experienced with a reduction in credit ratings, it is likely only the beginning of a reduction in ratings, both to banks and possibly to countries. This will be an additional, I would say, shot into a poor Slovenian economy and the possibility of providing financial resources for this, in addition to, of course, raising excise duties, which you are doing in addition to introducing new taxes and new burdens and just waiting for future innovations that will focus on how to burden the economy, but not how it is [[...]] [[Warning loop end of discussion.]] or create more economic activity. [[...]] Therefore, we propose that we finally stabilise public finances and focus on more economies, I mean more attention to economic activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Is there anyone besides Mr. Grimes who would like to explain his voice in his own name? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Certainly the law is not only welcome, but I say it is necessary. An additional argument is that at this time, when I also looked at the Internet and this meeting obviously did not happen for the media, the government's most favoured media website appeared a huge title of 'growth of the economy above all expectations'. When I clicked on the address because I was curious about what it meant, it turned out that they were forecasting for our neighbor Austria three times higher growth than was predicted by Ummar for Slovenia. But it wasn't possible to conclude from the title. The one who just read the address got an important pre-election message. And so let me tell you a simple message, which is in this law, which is proposed today. This reference is very clear to say that the only thing that is raising the level of public debt in a situation of total development impotence of the current government and the current coalition. And the message of this law is a message to the next generation that will pay your debts. I've had enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-29-SDZ5-Izredna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on public financial liability is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The motion for a decision was voted 18 to 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. Allow me, members of the Committee on Economics and Environment and Space, to inform you that the presidents will inform me that in 15 minutes there will be a joint meeting of the two committees in the large lounge. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 29th extraordinary meeting of the assembly.
