ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. Testimony of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Melita Župevc, Eva Irgl, mag. Vasja Klavora, Matevž Frangež and Miro Petek. I invited the President of the Government and the Minister and Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 4th and 18th items of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic to the 20th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 7. 6. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on a daily basis, as you have received with reference. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 18th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the 18th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 42 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Franc Križanič, Minister of Finance, from 16.30 onwards, Dr. Igor Lukšič, Minister of Education and Sport, from 19:00 onwards, and Dorian Marusic, Minister of Health, from 16.45 onwards. On the bench you received an overview of the questions sent, which were not answered within the deadline. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As I have already mentioned, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question will be asked first by Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, Mr. Prime Minister, I must say that you have a very nice tie, in line with your dress and shirt. Well, now for other, less important things. Already in the coalition agreement of 6 November 2008, you discussed in point 11/9 the constitutional electoral system and the referendum, where you promised that the electoral issue would be regulated in such a way that the incompatibility of mayors and Members would be established and eliminated and that the electoral borders would be removed in a way that would then, in the units, the party would actually prepare a certain list of 11 candidates, of whom it would then be elected or elected by voters. It is true that the holy three with the pendant or as they say, the coalition troika with DeSUS promised the matter, stood behind it, but the first promise had already fallen into the water. The incompatibility between mayors and Members has remained, and we are so afraid that there will also be no change in the electoral system in another area, which would be extremely good for Slovenia. This is how people could choose their candidate. We'd know who they are who have the opportunity to enter parliament. And in this way, the parties would be forced to choose good candidates and could put them in places where they would be elected. In this way we would avoid - I have to think that the President of the National Assembly will not remind me how to say this - in this way we would avoid coming to Parliament by some less capable people with a slightly lower degree of understanding of certain documents, documents and legal determinations or domestically speaking, fools would stay out of Parliament. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u5	All my life, I've been wondering how I'm gonna know I'm getting old. Now I know when an older colleague will give me a compliment instead of a younger woman. Thank you very much, colleague Jelinčič for your comment at the beginning. Now to your question. As far as electoral law is concerned. This government is determined as far as it comes across the need for two thirds of its Members and Members in this high house to change the electoral system. On this point, they have been, and will always be, among the parties, within them, in Parliament and outside them, in the professional public, different opinions. I'd like to show the direction the government is heading, but, of course, if it does, it will solve it with you. A two-thirds majority is needed, as we say. I think it is important for Slovenia, as a small political society, to maintain political magnificence. This means that it does not institutionalise such an electoral system that would form two political camps, like two, I will say, the dominant political party or institution that exchange power in elections. That would mean the implementation of my majority electoral system. It has a good side, but no, I think, for a small political society such as Slovenia, which must strive to preserve this diversity in its political identity and, at the same time, the right opportunity for consensus. That's the first thing. A proportional electoral system. Where it is possible that parties who do not have much political support compete for a city in Parliament, however, are high enough. This threshold should be laid down to get a seat in Parliament and speak on behalf of those people who are in a minority, but who are still present in society. In the case of a majority electoral system, this is less likely. However, in large societies this is less painful and in smaller societies more painful. The second issue concerns mayors and Members. There is no secret, not my own personal opinion, the opinion of the majority in the government that this is, I think, a structural problem, a major one. But don't let the mayors and mayors, who are also Members and Members of Parliament, blame me for this honesty. For many years, I have sat with you in the parliamentary benches, I have seen this problem with one and now, as Prime Minister of the Government, I see this problem on the other hand as well. My experience tells me that at least most, now I wouldn't go at the personam, but I go ad drem, on the problem, because most of those who are Members and Members of Parliament are primarily mayors and mayors. Your position in this high house, where you should take care of the common good of the whole country after the stop, first and foremost look at the partial interest of your local environment. This brings some friction into political decisions that are not useful for, I will say, national interests. And I'm in favour of amending the legislation that would separate those two functions, mayoral and parliamentary. Here, important political power is accumulated, and people know it. When and when they are able to decide to give priority to someone who is the mayor at the same time and who is competing for the city of a Member, in most cases, regardless of political colours, they also receive such support because they know that they will strengthen his political position and power, not as a Member, but as a mayor, who will then return to his environment with his influence what he expects from him. This introduces some conflict of interest between the requirement that we all work here for the common good, on behalf of all citizens and citizens, and that who works in particular as mayor or mayor for the needs and interests of the local community. The government will therefore, if it remains in these problems, work with you to create such an electoral law that will take these two proposals into account, and if we get 2/3 of the majority, we will come to a better electoral law, but this is not the government's priority now, we have other more serious problems, but this is in our plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I got the answer to half the question, so it would be nice if I got it in the other half. Clearly, we are not in favour of raising the threshold for entry into parliament, nor are we in favour of the majority system. I think it makes sense that there is a proportional system in our society, as is the case with most European countries. Some have other options. On 9 February 2009, Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs set up a so-called working group to prepare electoral legislation, but it all sort of died. Nothing's moving. And I think it's very sensible to make this change, to also introduce a mandatory preferential voice, but the boundaries need to be abolished. It's going to be easier, more transparent and finally, even the various surprises that are now coming to Parliament, people that everyone thought would enter parliament or that they thought would be ministers again after the victory. It's breaking and it's breaking. Therefore, it makes sense that this matter is simply done in the way it was originally given. That is to say, eight constituencies and in each constituency 11 candidates elected by voters with, donkeys, mandatory preferential vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u9	I think we are going about the same way, not least we have experience with trials that have failed in the previous term. Now we're trying to recreate the required 2/3 majority. The law is ready, as Minister Krebs has told me. I propose that if today there is such an agreement that these discussions between the parliamentary groups and the Government continue, and that we determine whether there is sufficient consensus on the basic solutions to the new electoral legislation, and then with all the other tasks we have - the last thing I want, colleague Jelinčič, the last thing I want is for people outside this important building to think that we are dealing with the problem of how we will divide the political chairs, and that we are not dealing with their problems, the problem of their standard, etc. However, if we can resolve this in a way that does not endanger the other tasks we have, then Minister Krebs proposes that you resume and hurry with dialogue with the parliamentary groups and that we come to a vote on the law and that she has the opportunity to succeed with a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u11	The Honourable President of the Government. True, we have more important issues. Data on the state of public finances, public debt and the economic situation are worrying, you might say, alarming. Let's look at some statistics on the monitors over the last few years. Data on economic growth show that after the growth period 2000 to 2008, we had a drastic decline in 2009, which was higher than the EU average. Poland did not even have a decline in economic growth. Slovenia is the one who had the lowest. Public spending has risen from 42% to 47% of GDP. The public sector is spending an ever-increasing share generated by the economy. Similarly, the government deficit graph shows the difference between public expenditure and revenue. The difference is growing. We are spending more and more depending on what was created in the economy. The difference between expenditure and income is covered by debt. The public debt is rising sharply and is about EUR 16 000 per employee in Slovenia. The decline in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is of great concern. In the last year, we have fallen most among all countries, for 20 cities. If we have improved competitiveness for 11 cities in 2004 and 2008 we have now ruined everything and more. There is also concern about public sector employees and wage levels in the public sector. Instead of giving priority to greater efficiency in the public sector, your government is creating more and more agencies and different worlds. You've established ten of them in this government's mandate. Recent data on GDP growth also show that we do not have economic growth but stagnation. However, exports have increased somewhat. Domestic consumption and investments fell. The economy estimates that additional nails in the coffin of the domestic economy are also the last measures taken by the Government and the coalition. The government has adopted a budget rebalancing which reduces state investment by around €450 million, particularly in road infrastructure, health care and some other investments. Also a excise policy that dramatically irritates energy, fuel, electricity will affect everyone and the economic operator. Compulsory distribution of profits to employees is seen by many economists as a new tax in the country. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: Why are you interfering with these harmful measures in a damaged and fragile economy that only creates and needs to pull Slovenia out of recession? Dear Prime Minister of the Government: What are the concrete priorities of the short-term, I stress, short-term measures to promote an economy that will have an immediate impact in terms of economic growth?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u13	First, answer your question, what specific tasks are assigned to the Government in the area of establishing a favourable or more favourable financial environment for small and medium-sized enterprises - these are the most, and this moment is very important to us - they have only finally created a new venture capital instrument. We have provided more than 100% increase in development incentives, after two companies investing in new innovative products and services, and for the purchase of technological equipment, compared to 2008. We have increased investment in knowledge and innovation. You know that, despite the crisis, or because of it, we have increased by 50% the RMB funding. I think that this is a bold, but inevitable move at a time when we want to also reverse the trend of competitiveness upwards. To him later. We have prepared a new programme for the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. We introduce new forms of promotion of Slovenian entrepreneurs when entering foreign markets. The implementation now includes an action plan to remove administrative barriers that gradually remove these barriers and contribute to improving the business environment for businesses. Among the first in the EU, we have adopted an action plan for the implementation of the Small Business Act, which sets out 10 priority measures to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposal for the 2010 balance for promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness does not provide for a significant reduction in resources. On the contrary, in the proposal for a rebalancing, for the first time, we have increased funds for foreign direct investment by just under €6 million, and for the second time, we have transferred almost €14 million of development funds from Balance A to Balance B, that is to say, to increase the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises to rent bank loans with interest rate subsidies. This instrument has proved to be a very successful and desirable instrument among companies over the past year. Come in. An important innovation that we are preparing, I hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible, for this area, is the establishment of a so-called development platform, which is a completely new, fresh approach to the acquisition and distribution of development funds, and will, inter alia, enable the transition from irreversible to more accessible forms of funding. The main role in governance will be played by the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. With regard to the law on the participation of workers in profits, the main aim of the Government was to improve the responsiveness of companies to use this form of motivation for workers to be more cost-effective and efficient. There is no secret that the government had one view of how to achieve this goal, and the political majority in the National Assembly of the other. The government is behind the concept of voluntary, that is, voluntary, profit-sharing, with a view to also achieving this goal. I have talked to a number of economists who have investments in us, abroad or intend to have them, and they have told me something that is probably very fair and honest, in the real sense of the Compulsory Profit Sharing Act, they don't even see it as a major obstacle to the decision that Slovenia would be a location for their investments. They are more upset by some psychology, mentality, or this thinking means only one piece in the entire political picture of the government and the political majority, who may want to put more pressure on foreign capital in the future or domestic if they invest on Slovenian soils. So it's more psychological than a real phenomenon, but it's also relevant in economic life today. And the high house will decide whether or not to reconfirm the law that has already been passed. However, the government's position is well known in this regard. We want everything that is possible to be done, and this is now my political answer to your question that this imbalance between the solidarity you mentioned, which was increased last year, how much - by 44% - we have increased the funds for social cohesion. In order to keep up to 5% of the deficits this year, especially in the second half of the year, so that structural reforms and the improvement of the environment for foreign investment will return to economic growth and jobs will be restored, especially new ones, if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u15	Yes, of course, because something was not answered. In fact, in the opposition SDS, we have not only criticised the government so far because of ineffective and untimely anti-crisis measures. We've seen the data, the statistics show that the blows to the Slovenian economy have been worse and that we've suffered more together than the comparable countries. So obviously, the measures will not be taken, and even more, you haven't even said any new ones that you're going to take, short-term, anti-crisis. Everything you have listed is either established or has been in the past and obviously does not work. Look at the last package of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was inserted here, the third package, with the previously proposed partnership, you have promised to respond comprehensively to it and, if necessary, to include some comprehensive response until today. [[...]] The package was marked "Fighting the crisis is fighting for new jobs." Slovenia lost about 100,000 jobs during this period, and I will illustrate why. In fact, if we add up the unemployment rate by 40,000 and add to this 17,000 fewer work permits this year and 20,000 more pensioners, and also add at least one third of those who are in temporary waiting and these other measures, then we can find that Slovenia is around 100,000 new jobs. We've lost 100,000 jobs. So, Mr President of the Government, the Slovenian economy needs, in particular, short-term effective measures to deal with the crisis, structural reforms are needed, but they will only have effects over the years. We need short-term measures in terms of tax and administrative burdens, your measures go in a diametric opposite direction. A raise in excise duties is a rise in taxes, which is clear to all, and is also diametrically opposed to the proposal for a rebalancing to reduce state investments that drive the economy. So, reverend president of the government, once again: What are the priorities? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u17	Today is such a constructive Monday. Earlier, we agreed in the previous reply that we will try to move forward with the adoption of the new electoral law, but I suggest that, if you accept this offer, you present your proposals for short-term measures, as you would if you had the responsibility to lead the government, by the beginning of the discussion on the budget balance. And at the beginning of the discussion, we will respond to your proposal for a rebalancing. Although I fear that the story will repeat when there is an increase in the fiscal burden, not its unloading, but let us try again. I'll tell you again. If the image of Slovenia were as the critics of our economic policy show, then Slovenia today would not be in the family of those rare European countries that are designed to help those who are in deep development problems. It's not just Greece here, there are other big countries. Slovenia had a dramatic decline in GDP in 2009, and we are slowly rising despite quarterly fluctuations. Here are various reasons, as is the case, Mr Minister, construction has overheated economic growth during the period of the transition, so it is now frozen at the time of the recession. And we have to face it, and the government is determined to meet with large and small players in the field of construction and to see how we can help quickly and concretely here and with everyone else where we can identify these needs. I just want to say that from day to day we make short-term decisions to help businesses. We have a series of ideas on how to implement in a short time a few decisions that will be important for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which is crucial. The component, I say once again, is an integral part of our economic policy, let's say that this instant of rebalancing is to keep the deficit sustainable, structural reforms moving forward and thinking about how to prepare Slovenia as a location for foreign investment. And here we think of Silicon Valley, Slovenia as Silicon Valley for incubating new technologies. I think it will be not only short-term but also long-term measures. At the end of this year we have to sort of reconcile this broken balance between solidarity and competition, I think the government is doing it now, but of course you have to admit, we are running into a series of obstacles to the social partners, but we are not cutting off the social partners, we are trying to have dialogue with them and explain to them why these are measures that are important and beneficial to them in the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Yes, it is in this constructive spirit that I, too, propose a debate on the response of the President of the Government to my question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In fact, it is right that the President of the Government would really take a closer look at our third set of anti-crisis measures that we have put in place and that he has promised an answer to. For the answer to a number of his questions to us, the opposition, is, you present your short-term measures. There's a species and a bunch of good ones in there. I will tell you one very important thing: a fiscal rule that we can spend so much or so much of what we have created in this country, but not in absolute terms limit public spending and the economy is creating less and less. The country is spending more and more - we've seen graphs, they're also on monitors. The country spends and spends, including by the number and establishment of new agencies. Dear Prime Minister, you have established ten new agencies under your government's mandate. Is this the way to a more efficient public sector and to manage public expenditure for these purposes? Moreover, we have proposed and proposed a tax and administrative burden on the economy. Your actions are going in the opposite direction; raising excise duties is an additional tax burden for the economy. We have also proposed more effective implementation of support schemes for the economy, these credit lines, so to speak, guarantee schemes. We are proposing several state and local investments based on development projects such as investing in energy. By the way, since your visit to Posavje, the important thing hasn't happened - state spatial plans haven't moved forward, they're standing. May was promised the public disclosure of the State Spatial Plan for Brežica hydroelectric power plant, we are now in June, there is no public decomposition. Above all, we expect a package of public sector austerity measures. This package is not available, as all statistics show consumption, even this fixed consumption upwards, but investments are declining and this is an additional poor economy because it has nothing to do. So the difference between Slovenia and Greece is only one: Greece expected this crisis to be significantly more indebted than Slovenia. We among the euro area countries have the most increased public debt as a percentage of gross domestic product, which we have increased by about 60% the public debt. Dear President of the Government, there are a number of reasons why such important topics should be discussed, so I am procedurally proposing that we discuss your response to the debate in the National Assembly, because I think this is the capital of this. Of course, statistics are disgusting. Statistics speak of Slovenia being on a bad path. Please try to evaluate it in real terms and do not talk about flossules like Silicon Valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his parliamentary question, will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 June 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question will be put by Jakob Presečnik, Slovenian People's Party, to Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Given that I have a question on a similar subject, as my colleague asked and you answered earlier, I must say that I have listened thoroughly to all of your answers. However, I do have a question from a similar area. Slovenia is still officially in recession. Official statistics place us in a beautiful society. In addition to us, only Greece, Cyprus and Romania are in recession from EU countries. On the world competitiveness scale, we fell for 20 cities, 52nd place between 58th countries. We have only been followed by Bulgaria, Romania, Argentina, Croatia, Ukraine and Venezuela, according to our data. However, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance remain optimistic because they say that things are relatively favourable for Slovenia so far, because if it revives the European economy, then this will also affect Slovenian and UMAR forecasts will still be realistic. Strange, I could say, parasitic thinking. Our criticism that we have not done enough to start the Slovenian economy was obviously on the spot. We have barely adopted the 2010 budget, there is already a budget rebalancing ahead of us, as statistics predict - according to our data, when we have not yet received the budget balance tables - this is what we have received today, and it is certainly possible that there is some kind of data in them that is not exactly what I will say because we have not yet been able to examine this balance - so statistics predict EUR 540 million lower than the expected revenues. According to our available data, expenditure is expected to decrease by almost €600 million. Mostly by deleting investments. Mostly in the areas of transport, health, defence, science and so on. At the most inappropriate time, in our opinion, we will save by delaying investments in the coming year, saving in the area of material costs, wage costs, goods and services, and again we will not find any specific, I would say, tangible data. That's why I'm interested in the following, Prime Minister. Did you personally, as Prime Minister of the Government, request direct and indirect budget users to reduce material costs, such as the item of expenditure on goods and services? And: What was your request? Secondly, which direct and indirect budget users have followed your instructions and which one has not? In the event that something was taken into account, I say, we have not yet studied the detailed balance because we have only received it today. How Nominal They Are [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u23	Also available; as stated today, it is such a constructive Monday; also the availability of your question will provide us with all the information available on the measures taken by the Slovenian Government in the area of savings in its competence. I think that this interesting data will show that it took a lot of effort to get results, as compared to 2008 by almost 20% of the cost of office supplies, by almost 15% of the transport costs, official travel has been reduced by almost 40%. I say, here are just a few things that are worth mentioning in order to go to those data that are much more important as aggregate. In the area of public sector wages, we have concluded two agreements, which in 2009-2010 mean a reduction in the necessary public funds for public sector wages totalling €450 million. Without these measures, honourable Member, without these measures, for example, wage growth in the public sector would be 10.3% this year and now stands at 2.7%. Is 2.7% appropriate in terms of economic growth and the situation? This is probably a high growth, especially compared to the wage growth in the real sector, but without offense, I will say something, not praiseful, I do not hope to think of this word by the opposition, but some understanding of how much work it took to give in order to agree with the social factors of this agreement. However, at least some of this recognition could be obtained by this government. In the proposal for a rebalancing that we have sent to the National Assembly, it is true that expenditure on investments is declining, and there is no way that expenditure on goods and services, or on material costs, is not being reduced. It must be said, however, that expenditure on this area has been reduced compared to 2008 and 2009 and is further reduced. 864 million euros in 2008 on the proposed good 823 in 2010. If I limit myself only to a proposal for a rebalancing, the figures for goods and services are still falling by €71 million. Which means 8% less than has already been adopted in this National Assembly. If we exclude total expenditure on specific materials and services, especially in the military and police, the expenditure on goods and services is still lower by €51 million. I mean, what do I mean? I want to tell you that right here with Minister Krebs and Minister Marusic, we are now talking to you after a discussion with the FIDES trade union, which, of course, is strongly protesting the Government's intention to intervene in some, let's say, the rights agreed so far. I think it's a matter of duty. This is just one of the meetings just one very small segment. We probably have a union with all the public sectors next week. Let me tell you again, this is what the secretary-general has just told me, even if we were to end the administration, we wouldn't be able to fix the deficit. It's such a big problem. But, look, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia relatively, I do not say excellent, but relatively well regulates the crisis process. We have fallen very deeply into the recession because of many features and are slowly but confidently rising. Slovenia is recovering, not without problems, but please, it is recovering so that there was no major burden on the shoulders of the most socially sensitive people. We did not lose, as it was meant, that we would have a number this year at this time 130 unemployed, but we have them under the magic number of a hundred thousand. And we have maintained eighty-thousand jobs through the government's actions. I mean, okay. Last year we took care of social cohesion, we'll try instruments this year. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Would you like to complete your response, Mr. President? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your answer. Therefore, in an additional or yes, supplementary question on the same subject, I would only mention the field of investments which, in our conduct, are expressly deleted from the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Not only because of the construction problem, you mentioned earlier in your reply to your fellow Member that you will pay particular attention to this topic in the Government, but I must say that not only construction, but our economy needs investment in its entirety. This is why I am critical to the changes in the budget, which largely deletes these investments. This is definitely bad for the whole economy. In my opinion, support should be given to state investment and also to the municipalities to provide an opportunity for their investments and to drive the investments forward. This is certainly to help the Slovenian economy as a whole, because otherwise many people will lose their jobs. And as it is said, this will be a farewell to the budget on the revenue side and also to the budgets of other cash registers. Of course, what about the resulting major social problems in Slovenia. So the problem of investment in Slovenia remains. Surely, in my view, this fact, which I believe is foreseen in this balance, is too large and quickly accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u27	So many numbers move in front of my eyes, I apologize if this information is not accurate. With the Secretary-General, we are checking the number of numbers that are ahead of us in the 2008 budget and we are looking at the figures from the 2010 balance sheet. Now, if we are right, I say, if, then, honourable Member, we will have 60% more investments compared to 2008. There's got to be some silence on this data if it's accurate. Now, if he's right [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Of course, of course, but without offense, when I hear this comment, I think it is right that Parliament is vibrant if it is not offensive, clearly, but it falls everywhere, my dear colleagues. [[...]] It falls and climbs at different speeds. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench...]] Just a minute. It's flooring and climbing at different speeds. Slovenia is a small economy, we do not have the internal demand Poland can have. No offense. We depend on our export partners. One of these countries has major problems, the other is in trouble, and for three we hope that they will go well through the problems they are facing now. I am pleased that the German government has taken very courageous steps and Parliament as it is, and it is essential for us to say frankly and without hair on our tongue that we are very close to Germany in terms of development policy. Very close. And let's go. The question will only be whether we can go as fast as Germany will go forward, even on the curves where this speed will have to be sustained. If this willingness and this will, the government has in hand and in discussion structural reform, which will in fact be, I will say, as a magnet, hold Slovenia in these very tense moments of recovery from the crisis, and we will go between the most dynamic countries out. All we have to do is make these decisions here. But we're on our way. I do not say, once again, that there will be no misunderstanding, Mr Member, I do not say that every measure of this government has been good, I do not say that it was timely, I do not say that we did not have, perhaps when we look back, any other alternatives, but summa summarum, Slovenia has withdrawn from the deepest recession and is going in the right direction. That's not what I'm talking about. Slovenia is among those countries that are trustworthy. That's what investors know. And if foreign investors know what they're thinking about are their own benefits, but we need to see something about it. But further cuts, further difficult and courageous decisions will be needed. Soon they will be here before the National Assembly and the National Assembly will decide on them, the government will prepare them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. President? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to thank you for this additional reply, but I would like to take advantage of the business provision to propose that we discuss the response of the President of the Government. I think it is possible to bring these two issues together and to discuss thoroughly before discussing the budget balance before adopting the budget balance, to have a thorough discussion on these economic topics, on the subject of investments in the country, on the subject of cost reductions, etc. Also on these topics, comparisons between the years 2008, 2009, 2010 could be another period. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jakob President to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the State will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 June 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Bojan Kontic, Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! Every political party before the elections talks a lot about more coherent regional development, classified it as a high priority in its programme and there are no significant differences here. And when we talk about more coherent regional development, we get to the developmental axis very quickly, to the transport infrastructure, and very quickly we can find that all regions that are not connected or not at the highway cross have a cross with roads that are bound to this highway cross. And when we talk about developmental axes, it is certainly necessary to say that the highway cross is the backbone, but that developmental axes can also be an important source of further development, a more coherent development of our country. The government has visited several times in recent months and has actually spoken to various representatives of different provinces. You have adopted certain arrangements, you have also agreed on activities, and perhaps today is an opportunity for us to hear from the President how these activities are actually being carried out. It may also make sense to ask the question: What about the law, the amendment of the Law on more coherent regional development that we have foretold, and will soon need to be discussed in the National Assembly if we are to cut into this content in time? And at the same time, perhaps the question is, because we know how difficult it is for individual spatial plans to accept, and to place certain infrastructure in a space that we may also get an answer to this: How far is it with a law that will allow faster line-up of facilities to be placed in space and thus faster to harmonize regional development. For when we follow these developmental axes and when we follow the events with them and work together, all together, without the exception of putting these objects in space as soon as possible, I do not think that without amending this legislation will actually work. In fact, I'm interested in: How is the implementation of the arrangements for meetings in individual regions or regions that the Government has actually adopted on these visits? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kontic, for the question raised. First of all, Minister Henrik tells me that before summer holidays, the law on coherent regional development, as well as colleague Žarnic, will be the law on accommodation, line accommodation, and summer holidays here. And no doubt these will be the two laws that will trigger the burning, I hope that constructive debate and good solutions. So, two important laws are ready to be discussed in this high house. Another time. The government has visited three, say, landscapes or development areas so far. Next to Pomurje for known reasons. I would like to say that I hope that this will be confirmed in particular by colleagues who come from this end that the Development Assistance Act, such as, say, Pomura, has been paid off. The balance of aid is positive; this law came at the right time, focused on the right objectives and also the way we enforce it shows the right results. This shows the activity of the business sector, as well as all other activities provided for by this law. So we can, not of course, fall asleep now with success, but with the direction of saving the developmental backlog of Prekmurje, let's say moderately satisfied, but things have to move on. The Secretary of State in my office has the task of visiting Prekmurje twice a week to find out where we have made progress, where there are problems where new government activity is needed. Another time. By the way, what's the difference? [[...]] He's moaning. The second visit was to the White Landscape in Kočevska. There we found that these winning mentalities, the real look forward through the problems, are significantly less than we encountered on a visit to Pomure. And that there is even more to be done here with a hand in hand with local authorities and entrepreneurs. And we've set up a development world. First of all, let me compliment the previous government on the fact that she "invented" visits in the centres, this practice has proved to be good and we continue to do so. In Pomura we have reacted by law, special, for other regions we will respond in general with amendments to the Law on more coherent regional development. This time, however, we have decided on a sui generis solution, this is the development world where we have brought together national and local actors to work together on short-term measures and long-term measures. The very important question, colleague Kontić, is the transport scar. Train and road. It's a road, especially. One conclusion on my part, Minister Vlačič may comment on this later on through some other questions is the latter. We have completed the highway cross, are waiting for us - either the reconstruction or the start of the construction of state roads. Where we start satellite tolling, there's probably no major investment problem. So, servicing debt and possibilities for new investments will be. The problem that the Government sees is how, in fact, with a private-public partnership, it is possible to build state roads where it is unlikely that the National Assembly will accept that people will pay state roads with tolls. There, I don't think the state has enough money right now to service all the needs with tax money. It's about Koroška, it's about 3A and 3 development axis, if you want. Not only is it the Soča Valley, but it is not the link between the New Town and the White Land. I think that after all my meetings, in particular with the efforts of Minister Vlačič and his other colleagues, it has become clear that we will have to make a decision here in this high house, whether we are ready to make foreign investments when it comes to transport scars. Of course, it is investors who are prepared to invest in return over a few decades with certain concessions, of course, whether or not. If we are ready for this, I think we can update the Slovenian transport scar relatively quickly in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 16th and 17th meetings of the assembly. Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič will first answer Milenk Ziherl's questions on income for 2009. Please, Mr. Secretary. The question was asked last time, you just answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Respectable. From the income of employees in the employer considered to be a taxpayer under the Tax Procedure Act, the income adjustment and social security contributions must be calculated, withdrawn and paid by the taxpayer in the form of a tax withdrawal. The taxable person must calculate and withdraw the tax deduction at the time of the calculation of the income and pay the income on the day of payment. If the tax authority finds that the taxable person has not withdrawn and paid or withdrawn or paid it correctly, the tax authority shall commence tax enforcement. The tax authority shall, prior to the commencement of tax enforcement, in writing and by telephone, remind the taxpayers of the voluntary payment of the tax debt. With a reminder from the debtor, he shall call for payment and draw his attention to the consequences of default and the costs incurred by the introduction of the tax enforcement procedure. If the debtor does not voluntarily settle the tax, the tax authority shall initiate the tax enforcement measures by issuing a tax enforcement decision. By means of a tax enforcement decision, the tax authority may incur the debtor's monetary income, his money in banks and savings banks, claims, securities or movable property. The tax enforcement of debtors' immovable property is a share of the company from property rights, is permitted if the debt cannot be recovered from the debtor's cash receipts in the receivables or movable property accounts. Those specific forms of tax enforcement shall be carried out by the court in accordance with the law governing enforcement and insurance. The proposal to introduce bankruptcy proceedings and delete the debtor from the business register of Slovenia are extreme measures to pay off the tax debt. On the basis of data from the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the situation in the area of non-payment of social contributions is improving. Compared to March 2010, the debt under this heading fell by EUR 5 million 275 thousand 403. Payment discipline is relatively high, with more than 97% of paid contributions paid in the period 2006 to 2009. With regard to the issue of social security contributions, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia introduced two new services in May 2010 to enable each taxpayer to check whether his employer is paying social contributions to him. The new service also provides an insight into the state of claims and liabilities of the taxpayer to the tax administration. This website is extremely well visited, it is said that the population understands and uses it extensively. According to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the overall efficiency of tax enforcement is increasing. With regard to the question of the procedure of the tax authority in respect of the debtors seeking the bypass channels, we explain that the control procedures of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia are aimed at the indirect control of the taxpayers, at the early detection of irregularities and tax evasions, and at the action for which there are different legal options, tax control, sanctioning in the event that they find that they do not provide the correct data, and cooperation with other state authorities through which they obtain information on possible irregularities mainly through labour and market inspections. Here I must say that in particular in the case of so-called "missing traders", it is said, in the case of tax evasion of value added, we have a number of procedures in the prosecution, from which we expect the prosecution to start carrying out these procedures and thus signal that they are serious crimes, not a minor offence. Because there are actually large embezzlements and they exceed more than 150 million euros a year. With regard to the question raised by the Member States, in particular the question relating to the determination of the taxable person Barsus, we explain that the Ministry of Finance cannot provide specific data in respect of the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Rules on the Implementation of the Tax Procedure Law which provide for the treatment of data which is tax confidentiality. In accordance with the law, the tax authority must protect confidentially the information provided by the taxable person in the tax procedure to the tax authority and other information relating to the taxable person’s tax liability. The Tax Procedure Act and the Rules specify in which cases, in what way and under which conditions tax secrecy may be disclosed; the answer to the question sent is not such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ziherl? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that some things have happened and some things have been cleared up for a while, the question remains open. So no one asked the Minister to answer the specific cases. Cases may have been submitted as if they had happened. And when Mr. Secretary listed what could happen to those who have not paid or who are behind in payment, I am interested in: How much since the first decisions have we already paid for a few months, so how many recovery measures have been implemented? Bad experiences in the past have shown this by simply collecting a stack of unpaid liabilities and companies operating smoothly further. But what bothers me even more is that the three main items are income, paid contributions and paid social contributions. This one's more dangerous. If, for example, you don't pay the income advance, the matter will close between you, but if you don't pay the social contributions, someone will come to confirm the medical card, and the computer will throw it out nicely and they'll give him limited health care. I certainly do not agree that each individual will search and search the Internet and can search for his or her hobby for direct information. But the country and the relevant services must establish a system to ensure that the citizen does not remain with a long nose in front of the doctor. Well, he can look for a hobby whether it's paid or not, or the state has to chase those [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Of course, the country has such a system. This is the system of execution that it implements. At the same time, citizens have the opportunity to monitor how their employers actually implement the payment of obligations, in particular the payment of contributions. However, given the statistics, I would suggest that we provide the Member with all the relevant information in writing in order to give him an overview of how it improved after years of implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Franz Križanič will answer the question of mag. Andrej Visiak concerning the development of an analysis of the financial implications for the competitiveness of Slovenian economic operators. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. So this answer will be shorter because, of course, such a study is not part of the Ministry of Finance's work. The Ministry of Finance has not carried out an analysis of the financial implications for the competitiveness of Slovenian economic operators in relation to the arbitration agreement on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia as this is not the case. Notwithstanding the above, the Ministry of Finance considers that the decision of the arbitration panel will not affect the competitiveness of Slovenian economic operators. The resolution of the border issue between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia would, in our view, reduce political risks, which would have a strong impact on the development of economic relations between the countries and also on credit ratings between the two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable Minister. It is unfortunate that before such an important decision, where we, such as the Sunday referendum, were not able to obtain all relevant data. It is very important to know what will be the economic consequences or consequences for the competitiveness of Luka Koper in the event that it is realised, in my opinion, the most likely scenario. This scenario is that Slovenia loses its territorial access to open waters and that it will be possible to sail some route, along a corridor, some so-called service routes across Croatian territorial waters or through Italian territorial waters. So, both Italians and Croats, of course, have their ports in the immediate vicinity of Luka Koper and also have economic interests to develop, probably, their ports faster and more efficient. And, of course, they have a motive, that is, pure economic real motive, to slightly more often or a little more cost-effectively inspect, in accordance with maritime law of course, international maritime law, ships crossing their territorial waters and going from international to Slovenian territorial waters. It is therefore sad that these analyses, what will happen to the development of Luke Koper and Slovenian logistics, have not been made and there are some flat-rate estimates that a good climate will improve relations between countries. I only estimate that not only Luke Koper, that many railways and numerous companies living from Luke Koper, by the way, more than 30% of freight traffic from Slovenian railways is actually done because of Luke Koper. Therefore, it is an important possibility that the competitiveness of Luka Koper will fall and, as a result, can cause enormous economic damage to these Slovenian economic operators and our economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u45	Undoubtedly, the settlement of the issue will concern a way that will be fair and will allow transport that will not have any obstacles to our port and the further development of all other logistics. I think that competition will bring higher quality, more efficient transport services in this area. There is no doubt that liberalisation will thus increase the traffic between Croatia and Slovenia and beyond towards other countries of South-Eastern Europe, so that the Slovenian economy will gain further here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Franz Križanič will answer the question of the Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar in connection with the DRUS Decisions on alleged obligations for basic agricultural and forestry activities for 2009. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Let me read a little longer. You will also find out the situation of those who do not deal with these problems. First of all, it must be clarified that the situation regarding the income from the incomes of basic agricultural and forestry activities for 2009 is not the same as that of the 2008 income tax. The change in income for 2008 was due to the subsequent interpretation that payments for difficult production conditions, so called OMD payments, are treated as environmental payments for the purposes of income and are exempted under the Income Act. Therefore, the average amounts of subsidies to be recalculated, the complaints were taken into account and the new income was paid. The process itself of calculating the average amounts and determining the tax base of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities shall be from 1. 1. 2007 has not changed and is laid down by law, which means that it is not left to the tax authority’s discretion on a case-by-case basis. On the same footing as for 2007 and 2008, and taking into account the exemption of income for payments for difficult production conditions, OMD payments, the tax base for income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities was also established for 2009. The law provides that the tax base shall be defined as the sum of catastronomic income, the income from the production of wine and beekeeping and the average amounts of subsidies. The law provides that the average amount of subsidies shall be determined in a way that the sum of these taxable agricultural subsidies, as actually paid for the purposes of agricultural and forestry activities in the year preceding the year for which the income is determined, shall be distributed to all agricultural and forestry land as at 30 June of this year for which the income is determined. The average subsidy amount thus established shall then be attributed to the cadastral income of agricultural and forestry land as used by the taxable persons for income from these incomes on the basis of the condition of the cadastral holding. The increase in the average amount of 2009 income subsidies was due because in 2008, when the average amounts for 2009, a total of EUR 147 million of tax-free subsidies for OMD were paid. In the year before, only EUR 76 million. The difference between years is solely due to the different volume of tax subsidies actually paid in each year. The manner and amount of the average amounts of subsidies for 2009 and the rate of income on this basis are therefore legal and no complaints in this respect can be taken into account. It should also be known that the amount of income derived from agricultural subsidies on the basis of average amounts is not linked to the amount of subsidies actually received, as this is a flat-rate way of determining these revenues. Therefore, of course, there is a situation that higher amounts of subsidies may be attributed to individuals through average amounts of subsidies, of course, even lower amounts than those actually received from that source. Let us also explain that the current solution came into law on the basis of the demands of civil agricultural associations. However, at the Ministry of Finance, we also believe that the enforcement of income-setting solutions for agricultural subsidies, although possible, is not the most equitable. Therefore, in the context of the preparation of the proposal for a new cadastral income law, as well as the proposal to amend the Income Act in the autumn of 2009, it sought to regulate the system of taxation of subsidies based on the amounts actually received attributed to the actual remuneration, in the same way as those revenues were regulated in 2005 and 2006. However, the representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, as well as the members who participated in the working group to prepare a new law on the determination of cadastral income, rejected such a solution to the new law. Civil agricultural organisations have also rejected the proposal for amendments to the Income Act. The proposal for a cadastral income law is currently under close professional interdepartmental treatment and is ready for wider discussion. When considering the draft law, the proposed solutions in the context of the public debate should be made clear to the widest possible range of persons concerned by the law, and coordinated solutions should be adopted so that similar problems will no longer arise in the future, which, in our opinion, also stem from a lack of knowledge of the issue in practice. We would also like a coordinated solution to be the basis for an appropriate amendment to the Income Act. Given that data on cadastral cultures and classes, which are the basis for determining cadastral income and also for attributable to the average amounts of subsidies, should be discontinued in the middle of 2011 in the cadastral cadastral, a new solution should be drawn up as quickly as possible and implemented no later than 2012. The Ministry of Finance supports any possible solution towards greater transparency and fairness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mrs. Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Minister, for a truly comprehensive answer. Finally, we were given an explanation of how such unfair taxation could have occurred. I'm surprised that it's those who are somehow complaining about it right now that blame it. However, I hope that a healthy farmer will also win and that this will change in the future, because there are other consequences of this inappropriate taxation. One thing I've already said is that it's too much to pay the income. The second is that it also affects the eligibility of social transfers, which are very important for farmers' families. And the third consequence of this high tax base, where it is unjustified, is that in the case of a tax base of more than EUR 7 000 500, this affects the obligation to enter the system of value added tax. This is therefore a major problem for the rural population, and I really hope that the current inadequate regulation will be rectified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much. There was no supplementary response or request. Do you have something to say or not? Thank you very much. Minister of Culture Majda Širc will answer the question of Jožef Jerovška regarding the state of media freedom in Slovenia. Mr Jerovška is not in the Chamber, but the question has been raised and I ask you to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u51	Mr Jerovski and I will negotiate through magnetograms. In the previous session, in my absence, MEP Jerovšek asked about the slip of Slovenian media on a scale formed within the American NGO Freedom House and oversees the state of human rights in the field of media and freedom of expression. At the outset, let me say that the situation, globally, globally, this non-governmental organisation has been recorded in terms of reducing the benefits for the fourth or eighth consecutive year, Slovenia remains among the media-free countries. We know that the state report categorizes three levels: free, partly free and unfree. But I must point out the following fact. If, for such and other reasons, it is very quickly reflected on this scale, at least our commentators have found that part, say, slips, of what was observed in 2009, could also be attributed, for example, to the case of Casiraghi or to any other state, also related to the fact that our media are an economic society and that within the tensions that arise within the economic sector or crisis, certain problems also appear to the media. But what would be worth highlighting here is that I fear that the 2010 report for Slovenia will be worse, significantly worse, given that, say last week, they beat and attacked the journalist of Labour Unity Mirsad Begic when he wanted to photograph the entrance to the REM factory. A brutal fight that will certainly wane the situation in the field of human rights and media freedom in Slovenia. Not to say that it will certainly take into account the fact that the RTV Slovenians have not left behind, so to speak, the work of journalist Mirjam Mužnič, that in RTV Slovenia, for example, the quotas of independent producers of audiovisual works have not been taken into account, or, as has already been said, the unstable situation of independent journalists who have a contractual relationship and who do not claim to be such in the public office. And I also point out that not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere in the world, especially in the field of the press, there are huge problems that touch, say, also such data as that of Le Mondu falling in one month for a million euros, that, for example, our three major print media outlets lost reading for one Celje, for 40,000, so to speak, that each newspaper buys or orders 22 people less than in the past and that local and regional newspapers disappear. This is particularly true for the world space and the American space, which means that we will also have to take into account this necessity of intervention in the drafting of media legislation. However, as regards the magnetogram, according to Mr Jerovska's recorded question, which states that there is considerable evidence of pressure and of the total political takeover of public funds from the media, and especially RTV. Ops, which is the problem, does not mention any evidence, however, if there is any evidence that the current Government is restricting freedom in any way or is politically involved in the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, as indicated here, or that the Government is continuing to draw up legislation that would legalise media and journalists' control, to note that lapsus are problematic. If a person identifies himself with the condition of his own species from the past, he must not attribute them to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much. There is no opportunity for an additional response. The Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr. Herik Gjerkeshbo, answered the question of Zvonka Laha regarding the establishment of municipalities. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Member Lah. With regard to your question, which is very short and precise and I can repeat it: Is not the failure of the municipality of Mirna contrary to the principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government? I would like to say that the European Charter of Local Self-Government contains principles that are implemented by national legislation of a country ratifying the Charter. Slovenia ratified the Charter and incorporated legislation into its principles. Otherwise, the Charter, which is the International Treaty of the Council of Europe, is directly applicable in accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution. The principles of the Charter also led to the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution. As regards the change in the borders of local communities, the Charter contains a principle called "protection of the local authorities' borders". And he says, quote: "The borders of local authorities do not change without prior consultation of local communities, to which they refer preferably to a referendum where the law allows this." The end of the quote. However, in order to change the area of municipalities as well as the possible establishment of a new municipality, it is directly binding Article 139 of the Constitution, which provides for the establishment of the municipality by law following a referendum to determine the will of the population. This provision lays down the conditions and procedure for the establishment of the Municipality of Law on Local Self-Government. Therefore, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Self-Government, the referendum on the establishment of new municipalities is a preliminary consultative referendum, which is not legally binding on the legislator. Accordingly, the possible non-admission of the Law establishing the Municipality of Mirna is not contrary to the Charter. However, since you had to wait a little for my absence, I would like to say that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Establishment of Communities and the establishment of their areas by which the congregation of Mirna can be established is in the legislative process, as you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it is true that you have stated nicely how it is regulated in the Constitution, the European Charter and in our legislation. Of course, the Law on Local Self-Government states that a referendum is to be held, and only then leaves this issue to the Referendum Law, where the law of consultative nature is. Do you not think that, on the basis of the fact that the provision of local self-government is a constitutional category, that all previous capacity-building procedures have been carried out, or that it provides all the conditions for the establishment of municipalities, should this referendum be binding? Although the Law on Local Self-Government says we need a preliminary one, a referendum is needed to make a decision. However, it is not explicitly written whether this referendum is consultative because it leaves this to the Referendum Act. Do you not think that, in the case of the Mirna Congregation, by making a decision at the referendum with 88% "for" decision, the National Assembly should not confirm this referendum or that the referendum should be binding and necessarily confirmed by the State Assembly with such a majority for the referendum for the congregation? Have not the constitutional category of local self-government and the European Charter on Local Self-Government been played here in some way?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u57	I assume you're asking me in my own opinion. It is necessary to determine whether the referendum of a consultative nature or a binding nature is then to be laid down in the Local Self-Government Act or elsewhere. Indeed, the European Charter itself on local self-government speaks of the right to local self-government. It does not speak of the right to its own municipality, on the basis of which it is determined, of course, the desire of people living in a territory or who want their local community, but then it is a matter of national law, in what way people adopt it. I'm saying, it's not my personal opinion, it's not the government's opinion as executive, it's not the one I'm going to say whether it's going to be one or the other. If this needs to be better defined, I think that the legislative branch of power is the one that should then be better defined in legislation if it is decided by the appropriate majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Mr. Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u59	In view of the fact that the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government is in the procedure and that it is likely that the Minister, including you, is clear to you how the Law-Legal Service assessed or gave its opinion on a proposal for a law, I think it would be appropriate to hold a thorough debate here in the National Assembly on the fact that this law, if, I think, is already incorporated, is that the referendum is binding because this amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government further impoverishes local self-government and is practically impossible to further establish municipalities. I therefore propose that a thorough debate be held at one of the meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Henrik Gjerkš, Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 June 2010, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnicu. Mr. Györek has slowed down so the minister can come to the hall. Please begin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In view of the current global climate change and the potential continuing threat of flooding in this part of Europe, the corresponding high-water flood basin on some rivers in the Republic of Slovenia is an important factor in ensuring security for and property of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. Not to mention recent evidence of catastrophic floods in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and so on. The situation of the anti-floating embankments on the left bank of the river Mure in the Pomurska region in several places, specifically in the Municipality of Beltinci, near the settlements of Melinci, Ižakovci and Dokležovje is extremely critical and urgently necessary to build the missing part of the embankment near Muri pri Melinci and to restore the existing embankments in the cadastral municipalities of the aforementioned settlements and also in the municipality of Lendava. As I am aware, there are similar problems in some other areas or locations in Slovenia, such as in the Savinja River, among other things, because the problem is of an urgent nature, let us not be surprised that at the same time we posed the same or similar question to the Minister of Environment and Space, i.e., colleague Lazslo Göncz and colleague Radovan Žerjav. We are facing both mayors of affected areas and residents of the Muri River on this critical situation. The Municipality of Beltinci has for the past few years been pointing to such an unsustainable state of high water dams along the Muri River, sending emergency and requests to various addresses or instances, for example, to the Cabinet of the Minister, to the Ministry of Environment and Space, to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment in Ljubljana, also to the Department of River Mura, to the Agency in Murska Sobota, as well as to the water management company Mura, d.d., as concessionary. Unfortunately, for two, three years, they only run into deaf ears and ignorance of proper bureaucracy. Only three days ago was the municipality of Beltinci received a paper from the Environment Agency, specifically from the Water Management Office, where they merely state that they are familiar with the state of the embankments, which surprises me quite a bit, since this means that someone at the Ministry of Environment and Space at least read some of the numerous municipalities of Beltinci. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: How and when will you take action to ensure the rehabilitation or construction of the embankment and thus the safety of the people along the Mura River? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Györek and the distinguished other Members! I would like to start by saying that this question of yours is essentially the same as two other questions, 14 and 47. When we prepared the answers, there is basically one answer to all three questions. And now I'm going to give that answer, and then I can give the rest of the stuff. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u64	Mr. Minister, if they ask questions, you'll have to say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u65	No, no, I will, just so that I don't have a problem answering the same question three times.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you for that warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u67	Therefore, between 2005 and 2009, the ILO managed to manage several sections of the embankment near Muri by means of the Water Fund and the budget line for the implementation of the public economic service obligation in the field of water management. Maintenance in public benefit at the Kot-Gaberje embankment section in 2005 of 1,069 metres and at a value of 590 thousand euros; maintenance of the Benica embankment in 2006, 874 metres, value of 650 000 euros; maintenance at the Kot-Hotica embankment section in 2006, 2007, 3 kilometres, co-financed half and of that a million 736 thousand euros; maintenance at the public benefit of the Benica-Petišovci embankment, first phase in 2008 and maintenance of the Benica-Petišovci embankment, second phase, in 2009, of almost 4 kilometres, worth 4 million 600 thousand euros. And at the end of the rehabilitation of the embankment based on the national location plan on the right side of the Mura River, AC Verjej, railway line, MS Ljutomer, implementation of the rehabilitation of the embankment on the basis of the national location plan on the left side of Mura, the railway route MS Ljutomer to the motorway, the section Kučnica-Petanci, at a distance of 6.5 km, worth 6 million euros until the end of 2009. That's a piece of history so far. So, a comprehensive or final reconstruction, the arrangement of all high-water embankments at Muri is the subject of the project of reconstruction of high-water embankments at Muri in the framework of OP ROPI for 2007-2013, which is also financed by the Cohesion Fund of the European Union. In accordance with the provisions of the Cohesion Fund, all projects must be completed and accounted for by 2015. So that's when the whole story was about to end. But here are the details that are the problem. I explained here many times before this meeting about the problems of the Water Fund, and there is likely to be talk about this even when there is a rebalancing talk in this house. In fact, our water fund is spent largely on the property on the Lower Savi. We've had a lot of talk about this. We have experienced criticism when we argued that the anti-half problems are those that are different from energy problems. And that's why there's a problem with money that's limited. We are trying to get this money in a variety of ways, including by amending certain acts, including the big fight for the budget rebalancing. Like I said, there's gonna be some more talk about it. However, we need to be a little optimistic that by 2015 we will be able to achieve this issue, which is planned and somehow in priority. As part of the OP ROPI, the rehabilitation or reconstruction of the embankment near Mura, on the right bank section, will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you further about the way in which the Ministry of Environment and Space works, or specifically in some agencies and offices, which sometimes take a year or two to respond with one letter to the multiple offices of local communities when it comes to such important issues as the anti-half security of endangered areas and in the villages of Beltinci and Lendava. In this single response, the Environment Agency finds that the high-water embankments are relatively old and in poor condition. They even found out that they were not even in some places. The Agency confirms the eligibility of the local community's requirements, but at the same time I am opening up the most difficult questions, otherwise you are some of these issues of principle. These are questions that are most difficult to resolve, money and competences and responsibilities, not least. In a letter received three days ago by the Mayor of Beltinci, they are somehow directing attention elsewhere. Look, just a sentence. In order to combine the water infrastructure in the Mure river basin, the concessionary Mura, VGP d.d., is in charge of regular maintenance work in accordance with the concession contract and the annual plan adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Space, so that I do not read any further. For this section it was necessary, this is that section at the farm of Germany, to provide financial resources or to determine how the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the embankments would be carried out. In other words, they don't even have the concept of how they're going to complete this rehabilitation. Perhaps a specific case, you as a relatively new minister are not yet familiar, but they certainly need a concrete response in the local community. Mr. Minister: How you see these solutions regarding the provision of financial resources and in general with regard to serious [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u71	Again, the Water Fund is the only address where these matters are foreseen. As I said before, fighting for this fund is a day with us, we're in the papers for it. A strong civilian initiative or whatever it is from the Lower Save writes letters to the highest headlines, drives us, writes us. A colleague who put it there has, I don't know, friends, where the money goes. So, there's a lot of pressure. I assure you that I believe, and I mean that when the flood begins, ministers and governments fly. I hope it doesn't get so bad with us that what's going on in the world doesn't happen. I can't tell you anything but your support and I'm glad to have three questions on the same subject today. I hope that when there is an attack on the other side of this assembly, you will help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Andrej Magajna will be appointed Minister of Culture Majdi Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u73	It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. The Ministry of Culture is the supervisory body of the Media and Media Law. I ask the distinguished minister: What can affected civil society actors do when information of a public nature is blocked in the media to the general social interest? And: What role does the Ministry play in this acquisition? For example, the coordination of the seventeen non-parliamentary parties and the movements that I represent and represent in the media space wanted to open a debate on the issue of constitutionality, legality and sense of separation of parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties during the electoral campaign. To this end, several representatives also participated in the public debate on the draft law on RTV. Neither the media nor the media of RTV Slovenia reported on this or opened the debate of course on this topic. As if affirming the unconstitutional separation of parliamentary parties and non-parliamentary during the campaign would not be a socially important issue. We have submitted a request to RTV Slovenia to complete the reporting with a request for response. No information was added and a letter was received by the responsible editor, which, due to the lack of adequate administrative and procedural errors, was subject to an assessment and, ultimately, to the mandate of the Media Inspectorate. Even after the Media Inspectorate's decision and the promise of a responsible editor that he will give civil society, including the requests of non-parliamentary parties, the opportunity to do so to date has not been given. Therefore, on 3 June 2010, we referred to the same topic again and invited the representatives of RTV in particular. On the part of the so-called public media, we were once again given the rise of ignorance. I do not know whether RTV is afraid to open up room for civil society or whether it is a sign of loyalty to the great centres of power which, of course, do not want to open up the political space or whether RTV does not care if it pays the penalty. What else can affected civil society actors do to eliminate the media blockade, and what can the Ministry of Culture do in its competence to ensure that civil movements providing information of general social importance such as democracy, not discriminatoryness, objectivity of information, active citizenship, so that these entities get the right space in public media?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Majdo Shirco, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u75	It's not an easy question, even though I'm giving it to you with an answer that only has one sentence. The media of the Republic of Slovenia should be and are legally free, independent and, of course, shape their content themselves. In this regard, the Ministry or we know that the founder of the public institution of the Republic of Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia and that the duties of the founder are linked to the guarantee of independence and, of course, institutional autonomy, as well as the provision of an adequate financial base. You yourself replied that there are certain procedures when civil society or any other entity that is affected can serve the Media Act, where it can supplement, correct those contents, deny the facts and misrepresentation. This is a well-known chapter on response and correction, of course, if this is not respected in your case, as I was informed by the Slovenian Media Inspectorate, this has happened, they have been responsible for the response and also the IRSM, a real concrete inspectorate, has found in the examination of the application that it was the responsibility of the responsible editor of RTV Slovenia for violating a specific article of the Law on Media dealing with Response and Correction, and that the responsible editor, who has otherwise in writing refused to publish your reply, has been liable, not for refusal, but because he has not mentioned any of the legally permissible reasons set out in Article 32. Thus, the responsible editor was also ingrained as well as the publisher himself. But you're wondering about other mechanisms besides those allowed by the law that are tied to why an event wasn't visible enough in the media. Your debate or discussion of others who attended the public consultation on the draft law on RTV Slovenia was also presented through the transmission of the meeting, at the time, of the National Assembly, an extraordinary meeting. In this sense, some information was given. But these questions are relative and last, which can be judged by the Minister or Minister, who I say, must ensure that all mechanisms are in place to organise the system in a way that does not happen. If you were reading Obama's book, in the first chapter of his memories that came out when he was appointed, we know that he stated that at his press conferences he was at the beginning, of course, when he entered political life, there was only one journalist present, and he did not always report the event itself. As I say, other mechanisms that speak of ensuring the principles of respect for human rights, autonomy, media independence can be made possible through regulation, which is also enshrined in the Media Law, and also through other forms, as I say, of ensuring adequate funding and as you know, in this context, the RTV Slovenia Act is changing as non-contribution is linked to the annual or every time the will of the authorities, but is being treated in a comparable manner with the rise in the price of life needs. I can also list other reasons or levers that guarantee freedom and independence [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlic will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the question I'm asking you is short. I hope that the answer will also be brief and such that it will actually cheer up all those waiting or waiting for the arrangements of regional landfills in the Republic of Slovenia. I want to know: What progress has been made in establishing regional waste landfills in the Republic of Slovenia? As this establishment of landfills is also linked to the use of European funds, I am therefore interested in: Does the projects and the number of landfills run according to deadlines, project documentation? Finally, this refers to the celebration of the Court of Auditors' post-revision report, which also notes that the establishment of regional waste landfills did not go as well as it should. I want to know: Have you, at this time, since you have occupied the post of Minister of the Environment and Space of Affairs, already saved things by, say, the Court of Auditors, when they review the business again, satisfied with you as Minister and will not have to resign for this? Whatever I think of personally, the Court of Auditors. I also ask you because, when I looked at my written questions, I first noticed that the Committee on Environment and Space in the National Assembly had already asked for the first time, on 4 February, what would happen to regional landfills. Then I asked the question myself in August last year, but now it is almost a year and a half, but it seems to me that things, at least as far as I know, are not going, or that it has been said about 15 regional landfills, that then this number has decreased, I don't know, according to some information to 10, that the question of the Logatian as a regional landfill, which actually has some ambitions, about a number of these congregations, is, after all, also Grosuplje and Trebnja, is to become a regional landfill, and none of the congregations know. And maybe to the end: Would this recommendation, not to involve the congregation, but the national level, be useful to take into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u79	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Of course, this is a question that has actually been following me since day one. We have already given some answers to this at a press conference, and here I will take some of these answers and perhaps another thought forward. So that's it. Under the new financial perspective 2007-2013, there are currently four projects in implementation, three applications for funding are in the coordination phase, and six projects are in the preparatory phase. This is, say, an ongoing work that's going on. The Community contribution for the four projects for which the grant decisions have already been issued amounts to €104 million,518 thousand,268. The level of overcrowding of cohesion at development priorities is almost 51%, says around 50% of the funds are waiting for basic projects. Thus, the decisions were issued for CERO from Koroška, Stajerska region, the upgrade of the regional centre Ljubljana and Cero - second phase. The Cohesion projects of the new financial perspective 2007-2013, where the applications are coordinated, are Pomurje, Dolenjska and Gajka. Then they are in preparation Gorenjska, Notranjska, Štajerska, Istria and Kras, Ljubljana and Maribor. For a little while. Then I'll go back to some more details. We set up a special coordination working group on my arrival in March because I found that this problem is being addressed at various ends in our ministry, and sometimes for purely objective reasons things do not run in the most coordinated way. This coordination committee is now composed of Director Arso, Director of the Environment Directorate and finance and projects, plus one member of my Cabinet. We presented this new strategic plan to the general public at the May 2010 press conference, we have divided the measures into three sets: waste management - as we all know, is very complex and requires action at the systemic, institutional and legislative levels. The measures shall take into account the knowledge and findings of the Court of Auditors. The plan of measures or plan to be supplemented is also published on our website and contains five institutional measures, four systemic measures and then four other legislative measures. I'll see if I can have enough time to read. On these materials, which I have in my possession and which are also published on our website, a balance sheet of cohesion funds has also been published publicly and something that the court rightly requested is a timepiece. Here's another thing I'd like to say to you right now. We have been thinking about a slightly different strategic approach when, in fact, what we are doing will not be integrated into this approach, nothing will be done twice. We have been thinking about dividing Slovenia into several clusters, which means, in some environment, that it is well - thoughtable that it is a larger center where smaller centers are gravity. Then the whole thing would be happening in a more coordinated, multi-phase data processing process. We will want to have these centres as close as possible to railway tracks so that the transport issue is better. And one more thing, at least for these larger centres, we want to attract as much of a public-private partnership as possible, so that cohesion money can be burdened with other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Dr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much for that answer. I'm definitely going to look at the website, because I obviously didn't do it. Regardless, this feeling of confusion is that you need to know when it comes first to 15 regional landfills, because I know two cases very well. One example is the Logatec Congregation, which, in fact, led an initiative itself and then managed to bring together all the local congregations in order to practically reach a signature, almost pre-contracts for the construction of a regional waste disposal centre. A similar thing happened in the congregation of Grosuplje, which has a certain disposal area, and then the whole story took place at the municipal level, which means that the municipalities started talking to each other, negotiating, some projects were, the mayors signed, we had extraordinary meetings of municipal councils, and then there was a change. And if I understand correctly, even to a different philosophy now, thinking about regional waste disposal. The question, which is complementary, is only this: Will this changed philosophy now ease the unnecessary costs involved? Will the use of European funds be in hand? Will we, for example, have a regional landfill-covered Slovenia in 2013 with regional centres? That's actually the key question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u83	Just what you said, this new thinking, this is what we are dealing with in a more focused and cost-effective way. So it's not like we're gonna hit anything. Or was it 15 and 10 thought through, that's exactly what it was. If you do some clustering, then all of these things, you can put all of these thoughts into some clusters that are effective, communicate with each other, even if there's a problem of getting rid of it elsewhere. We had a special meeting with the Logatec Congregation and several municipalities on this and they very much seized the idea of a public-private partnership. I haven't had time to talk to Grosuple with my congregation where I live. Maybe one day it would show us something at home to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roko Žarnić. Please, mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. I am one of those three Members who asked the Minister of the Environment a question about the high-water defence embankments on the Mura River. And it is interesting that we have decided on this issue by three Members completely independent without knowing each other. Perhaps the reason is that the three of us were independently very surprised at what was happening on this project. On 27 May, the municipality of Beltinci sent you an emergency room to continue the construction of a high-water dam along the Mura River. Let me remind you that this was done for the first time on 3 February 2009, for the second time on 18 March 2009, that this was done for the third time on 3 February 2010 and, as I said, on 27 May this fourth time. The apparent ignorance of the Ministry's employees in the absence of an answer to the mayor's question, no response. To make this happen practically, as we've heard, only after three days. Is it an accident or is it intentional, because perhaps the mayor comes from a political option that is not currently in the coalition. In short, I find it completely irresponsible that the mayor who asks questions, because of the threat to citizens and citizens of the Beltinci municipality, does not get any answers about what is happening on this project. You said there was a lot going on in the last term. Most of the defence embankments that have been built in recent times have taken place there until 2008. However, after the arrival of the new minister, the matter was almost deadlocked. If not for all the MPs here, the matter would probably stand. We've been alerting this matter to all the rebalances. I'm asking you this time: Is there any means in this new balance for this high-water dam or not? And secondly: I wonder what's going on with the Water Fund? In fact, we have received information that a timely decision has not been taken on the measurement of the level of the contributions of the debtors to the Water Fund. That the old doses have, as I would say, been abolished in quotations, but for the new ones we have not agreed on and therefore there is a great risk of problematic financing of the Water Fund. You probably know what I'm talking about. So, I want to know: When will the activities on the Muri River continue to be carried out?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic, regardless of your warnings, if you can answer the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We can talk about this a lot and thank you for asking. Now I'm gonna say something else I didn't say before. I have to tell you again that I'm on your side, if I may say so, I don't know if I can say so. I'll explain a few things. First, the specific question, short - works on the high-water embankment of Dokležovje are underway. To continue the completion of the works in 2010, the Water Fund programme envisages the completion of the first phase on the left bank of Mure, and EUR 677 000 715 on the right bank of Mure and Cven - Vukja vas and EUR 100,000. So specific. Now for those other questions. Maybe I'll start again. We have found that the problems and appetites, would exist for the money of the water fund, which I believe was somewhat poorly defined - its consumption, but let us leave what was, we try to change this to the future - there was a problem of a new pricelist because we wanted to give a contribution to a slightly more fair level. We have some recommendations, we've come to the OECD. The OECD provides ranges from to different water reimbursements. It's very simple to find that most of the water returns, except in the energy industry, I have to commend them, they're on average, somewhere deep below the average. We've been trying to negotiate in the government to raise a little bit. This has happened to me that at one ministry for a million cubic metres of water, 90 euros is being paid back. Ninety whole euros! We wanted to raise to nine thousand, so I had to withdraw to ninety just so that after long coordination the price list went through. This may illustrate why it takes so long. Water refunds at sea - there was no way to raise them to a reasonable limit. I have asked the government at its meeting, and we will discuss this in the coming years, that we are closer to at least the average of the OECD so that this water fund is as decent as it is. The second thing we are fighting for is that we have not completely succeeded in making a certain percentage, that is about a sixth of the water fund being poured into the integral budget so that it does not fall into the integral budget to remain in the water fund. I have to tell you, I didn't make it in the balance. When the balance is with you, you might as well ask something like that. And I don't want to look strange right now, I assure you, my colleague Darja Racman Stanič is extremely hated with energy, she is very much fighting for it. And I can't do more than that, and every question you ask is helping our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly, Mr. Minister, you said that the work in Doklezov continues. I don't know when I read this letter from the mayor, Mr Kerman, on May 27th this year, this challenge, the objection that nothing is actually happening in the Cadastral municipality of Dokležov, Izakovci and Melinci. That's why you write this letter, and it begs you to do something to move things forward here. It's a letter from 27.5, where he says nothing's going on. Second, as far as this water fund is concerned. I guess they're complicated. Also from your response, there are complications, which means that funding is problematic, that there is virtually no funding for the water fund. But we're in June of the month. I can't imagine how we're gonna make things up to you. We expect that all activities will be maximized here, that this matter will be put in order, and in the balance, I assure you that we will ask again and ask about what funding will be like, not for the first time, because we have asked questions about each balance, even this time. And if it doesn't, we're going to table amendments because it's totally irresponsible and ignorant that this area, which is so exposed to floods, is so neglected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u91	Only with regard to what has just been adopted have we allowed the fund to be filled and even counted two million more than it was last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Economy, Dr Matthew Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Secretary Dr. Lakhovnik! My question is: How many applications were submitted by Slovenian companies in 2010 to obtain funds through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund [[SPS]] and Public Agencies of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment [[JAPTI]] ? How many companies and at what level did companies receive the funds and in which sectors the most funds were allocated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much, honourable Member Marjan Bezjak for the question raised. In view of your question, I also asked the implementing institutions of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and JAPTI for information. And the data show the following: in 2010, 855 applications in the amount of €174 million were received to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, €166 million were submitted, €429, and the amount of applications granted was €81 million,802 thousand,316. The data refer to the amount of the subsidy and the amount of the tendered guarantee potential in the guarantee instrument of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund for Banking Credits with interest rate subsidy. While JAPTI, the second implementing institution, was the number of applications for 205, the total number of applications, the total amount of resources requested for the total applications was EUR 23 million, 303 thousand, 548 and the number of applications granted was EUR 127, and the amount of applications granted for the euro was EUR 14 million, 487 thousand, 843. In summary, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund has approved a little less than €82 million of deposits. In particular, it is a matter of subsidising the interest rate to small and medium-sized enterprises and of granting guarantees for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, on the basis of which these small and medium-sized enterprises received money for development projects. While JAPTI has approved around EUR 14 and a half million under its programmes. In view of the question raised, I also asked for data on the basis of the SKD activity, it is said that the standard classification of activities by industry. I have been informed that the main resources allocated under the processing activities were mainly the metal processing industry and the timber processing industry in this context. The other part, a little less, involved professional, scientific and technical activities, trade, then maintenance and repair of motor vehicles and information and communication technologies. The smaller share is in construction, transport and storage industries, in catering and other so-called diverse, more heterogeneous business activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you for your information, Mr. Secretary. As we can see from the data, there have been more applications than actually granted, i.e. 855 applications and 421 in the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. That's exactly the difference in JAPTI. Do you believe that funding for subsidisation and the development of entrepreneurship is sufficient, to a large extent or insufficient? If it is large enough, then why do we also see that investing in economic development is, on the other hand, a public debt from day to day or from month to month increases. Are you confident enough to convince the prime minister and fellow ministers to devote more European funds to the economy? Does the government not consider reducing the costs of state bureaucracy? If we were to reduce national bureaucracy, we could spend more money on the economic sector, as it is certainly the sector that all citizens and citizens live on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Minister Dr. Lakhovnik?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much for asking a supplementary question. I agree with you that these resources are insufficient, given the situation we're in. That is why, in the context of the budget rebalancing, we have been able to achieve at least that part of those funds that companies have not spent under the A balance sheet, but it is, for example, for some other European Structural Funds drawing projects, that these funds are allocated at least to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund holding fund and that is how we are counting on to provide additional potential. The Slovenian Enterprise Fund has practically exhausted its credit potential in the first half of the year. If we did not do so, I could, in practical terms, simply close the door as regards new tenders, subsidies, with a guarantee of interest rate. In these roles it is necessary to know that every perfect role is not yet appropriate. They are assessed according to banking standards that they have to meet. These standards are, given that these are development projects, in a way, I will say, milder, at least in that through the guarantee they offer, then small and medium-sized enterprises are more easily credited to business banks as well. Indeed, you are right here that these resources are too small for both the JAPTI and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and that the budgetary options are what they are. If they were even larger, they would probably try to grant even greater credit potential for this area. But I have to say, at least in the rebalancing, here I have to say that the Ministry of Finance also had a hearing and they went right here on our hands that we transferred some of the assets from A-balance to B-balance and we are counting on this address, at least to keep this call dynamic until the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In fact, you said that several more funds would be allocated to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and JAPTI through a rebalancing exercise, in fact for Slovenian companies. However, from the newspapers we check that economists, managers are absolutely not satisfied with the balance you are proposing. We also need to know that, in fact, 4761 accounts of Slovenian companies are being blocked today. That is why I propose that this issue be actually discussed in the National Assembly, which in fact also makes it possible for the law to be presented to the general public, and that the economy in Slovenia should actually be presented to the general public.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Bezjak, that the National Assembly discusses Mr Lahovnik's response, we will decide tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask a question from the Minister for Culture, Mrs Majdi Širca.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable minister! The public institution of RTV is in the National Assembly, in particular the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, often subject to a particularly careful debate, whether it is a supervisory function exercised by the National Assembly within the framework of statutory powers or those given to it in the appointment of members in both Councils. This path, however, is my question related to media coverage, although some say it is a deliberate matter that responds to the appointment of the new Director-General of RTV. That is why I ask you, Madam Minister, how do you comment on media notices that the contract concluded between the President of the Programme Board of Dr. Grando and the Director General, Mr Guzei, contained provisions which would not include the obligation to pay six incomes, as in other cultural institutions, but after the first annex of 12 salaries and 24 after the second annex. Not to mention some other provisions cited by the media. I didn't see the contract myself, and I can't say which one is in the contract. However, I would certainly like to know what to do when it comes to responsible treatment of public funds. Indeed, RTV is not financed from budgetary resources but from RTV contributions, but it is tax money, and it is right to know how RTV manages these funds. I ask this in particular because we have often faced different aspects of the same issues in the reports of the Supervisory Board, about the cost-effectiveness of the conduct, the fulfilment of the legal provisions and other arrangements. How do you see your own responsibility for the situation and how can it be resolved when it comes to contractual obligations that have been concluded and signed, perhaps one in 2008 and one before? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u104	Madam Secretary Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. You ask me how I personally see the issue of the annexes of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia with the President, former President of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. Personally, I find this behavior unethical, unhygienic, and unfair. The legal, legal and all other consequences, which you are also asking in your Member's question, will undoubtedly flow when the report of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council is considered in the National Assembly within the competent Committee on Culture, Education, Sport, because I believe that part of this report will also be the fact that they have been in the past on RTV Slovenia, as a public service, in a public institution, also such contracts, and I believe that they are no longer. This is a type of public service, not directly funded by the State budget, where the Government or the competent ministry could also give consent under such a contract. We know this because of the specificity of the law and also because of the specific fact that the Ministry or Government does not give, as with other public institutions in the field of culture, consent to the conclusion of such contracts, and therefore we have not seen this contract at all, even though at the Ministry of Culture at the time this information appeared in the media, we asked for an insight into this contract. In due course, I believe that they will also convey this to us. But if I say so, one is legalism, where the Ministry of Consent does not give consent, it can warn, and it does, the other is ethics. And here ethics are questionable. Ethics in the light of the fact that leadership is immeasurably striving and the conclusion of annexes at the time of the change of power has also made a special effort, Annexes go in terms of providing these 24 salaries in special cases and even more, with a triple of these salaries. Leadership embraces functions, leadership embraces authorities, literally, in the light of the deliciousness of the authority that is supposed to have happened at least there to be local elections or I don't know when, although we know that there has been an intervention between the appointment of the new Director-General of RTV Slovenia, who was very quickly deprived of this title by different, such and different ones, to explain or, if I say so, excuses. As it is said, the Ministry of Culture has, regardless of whether the founder has given him no powers of consent in this regard, but in line with other views on contracts between directors and saints, such as in all public institutions or very similar, as in companies, even in recent times, has called on RTV Slovenia not only to submit these contracts but also to take appropriate action. An appropriate action will be taken by an unmistakable supervisor, the so-called Supervisory Board, which exercises control over legality and the economic management of funds. I believe that the Supervisory Board, in addition to a programme that is above these treaties, will be deeply surprised, and I believe that at its meetings it will also report to the Government or the Ministry, which will be able to deliver a certain opinion in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Thank you for this part of the answer, but I would still step forward. You're saying you don't have a chance to look into the contract. The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Igor Soltes, mentioned that even when he was an authority to access information of a public nature, said that contracts in public institutions should also be public when it comes to individual contracts of directors of institutions, because they were financed from public funds. An audit of the Court of Auditors is also foreseen. Salaries and salary relations, contracts, originating rights, lawsuits in court for non-compliance have somehow become a standstill in the public office. However, as we are also in the midst of the adoption of a new law on the public institution of RTV, I respect: Is it possible to expect that the new organisation of RTV will maintain transparency, the publicity of that part of the revenue that will be linked to financing from the RTV contribution and not so much from market activities? How to provide greater control for the future. It is interesting now that no one remembers what he signed and why he signed it. However, it is a large amount and a very interesting statement that, in the context of the funds managed by the director of the public institution RTV, such a departure is a decent way to say it is very simple. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u109	Your Honor, there will be no mistake. We have the opportunity to look into the contract, because it is a document of a public nature. I wanted to tell you earlier that we haven't got it yet, and it's likely that this mail will be coming to the Ministry of Culture somehow slowly. However, we called on the same day that the findings appeared in public. I must point out that the Court of Auditors, which is about to enter into a public institution after the decision of the National Assembly last year, will most likely notice any other than that unethical holding contained in a number of contracts, apparently between the Programme Council of the last reference and the Directors or Assistant Directors. However, let me remind you that we have warned in the past that the balance sheet of the final accounts of the operation of RTV Slovenia was guided by the way that the revenues and expenditure somehow coincided in a way that was not taken into account or that it also included the sale of the so-called silver RTV Slovenia. We also talked about the lack of respect for the audiovisual works of independent producers, who are now fully measured and confirmed as being not respected. If you ask me what the new law can prevent, let me say at this point that at a time when the quota that the law brings is no longer respected, the administration will have to leave the house, but not that, as in this case, it will be extended even if its life expectancy is not respected even by such an annex as is mentioned in this Treaty. There are mechanisms, but also a decision adopted by the Government at its regular meeting last Thursday concerning the need to review the situation of employment contracts concluded with managers or presidents and members of administrations is very welcome. In this case, we are also undoubtedly reviewing all the contracts within our public institutions in the field of culture, which is also very interesting how they were concluded between directors, directors and saints and where they are [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Unsuitable, we're fixing. [[...]] But as I say, in the case of RTV Slovenia, under Article 16, the exercise of the institution's powers has been transferred to the Programme Council, not to the Government. And in that sense, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Čadež will ask the Minister of Economy, Dr Matthew Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, as part of regular visits to statistical regions, regularly monitors developments in Slovenia, in particular following developments in the economy and in particular small economies and craftsmen. We can say that export-oriented companies in the country are holding up well and orders are increasing. Most importantly, they also get paid for these products. Inside our country is a state of concern. Small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen selling their products and services on the Slovenian market, in their local environment, are now in great difficulty due to non-payment or, I can say, begging for their earned money. As a result, there is also a growing grey economy with payment non-discipline. When honest entrepreneurs look for shortcuts, how to reduce their own costs is particularly worrying about the increase in non-payment of obligations to workers. What's the problem? As we can see, there are also large companies applying for public tenders, which, at low prices, are also successful in obtaining a business at the end. What's next? There is a bitter search for subcontractors in a narrow local environment, but we know they're getting harder and harder. Indeed, it is already known in advance that they will be deprived of their dues or that they will receive offered compensations that have not been agreed upon. After that, one of the largest companies in Slovenia, which is building across the board, is also known to charge late interest every day. Dear Minister, I don't need a long explanation. Tell us: How and when will you settle this situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u112	Minister of Economy, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The question raised is affecting the area of several departments, particularly the Ministry of Finance, which is subject to payment discipline, and partly the Ministry of Justice. But we will answer him in as much as possible. In this area, the government has amended the Public Procurement Act because we are aware of the problem of payment non-discipline. Thus, it is possible, in cases where the contracting authorities are direct budgetary users, i.e. the State or, for example, the municipalities, and where the main contractor does not pay its subcontractors, in such cases a direct payment can be made to subcontractors by means of an award. This law was adopted in the National Assembly and I think this is an important step forward for the future. The Government has also prepared an amendment to the law on enforcement, as some have rightly warned that the currency as an instrument in Slovenia is not effective. The novelty of this law is already in the National Assembly. The third important measure proposed by the Ministry of the Economy and adopted by the Ministry of Finance is to raise the threshold for the so-called invoiced realization to EUR 400,000. So in the case of these smaller or micro-enterprises and their turnover is equal to or less than EUR 400,000, they can decide on the principle of invoiced realisation, which means that companies pay VAT not at the expense of the bill, as usual, but only on the principle of paid realisation, when the account is actually paid. This can also be an important liquidity moment especially for small and micro-enterprises. The next step, which was adopted, was to pay the overpaid value added tax in twenty-one days, which was also the opposition's proposal and has been repeatedly exposed here in the National Assembly. However, the value added tax for certain service activities has also been reduced. What is a key step and, in fact, we are operating it today with the help of AJPES is an electronic compensation system. It is a voluntary settlement of obligations between different business entities. The multi-party netting of claims makes no sense and is not known anywhere in the world because it means the possibility of abuse. Someone can report claims to a system that is not actually credible. However, there is a system of multilateral debt settlement, which is also applicable to us. When someone declares an obligation, it means they recognize it. In fact, this has been used to a lesser extent in the past. Therefore, we have also prepared support or a recommendation to all business entities that this e-compensation system should be used to the greatest extent possible, in a way, through the assistance of IAPES and both chambers, both the Economic and Commercial Chambers. We also considered whether to command him, to make him mandatory. But this is not known by any member of the European Union because they say that experience with this could be even worse and that volunteering in this case is the best possible solution. But I need to draw attention to one more thing that seems important to me and that you yourself have warned about. Companies, especially small operators, as you yourself said, are also taking up a business that they already know in advance is unlikely to be paid or not paid. Only one thing is worse than not having orders: that you have orders to accept them, and you know you won't get paid for those services you provide. In this case, I must say that entrepreneurs must also check the ratings more carefully, especially some large companies to which they point out that they are in difficulties of payment, and rather decide not to take up this business than to take up a business that they already know will not be paid in advance. Otherwise, they get in trouble on their own. So I have now tried to point out, above all, a series of measures that have been taken. Of course, payment discipline continues to be a problem in the current situation, as you yourself have warned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Chaddez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u115	Dear Mr. Secretary! I fully understand you about all of this, but we must be aware that all of these measures have been in place for quite some time. We also know the signal. Despite all the measures taken, however, payment discipline is not improving. Given that this topic is very attractive within the Slovenian economy, within transport, I would like to take advantage of the possibility of having a special debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Although we would have had the opportunity to supplement the answer, it seems that it is sufficient for you. Your proposal to discuss Dr Matthew Lahovnik's response will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to ask Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you. Dear Minister, respectable Minister! The fact that from the promised content of the law on integrity to the actual content was created by a true bountiful goblin, a vampire mix, I would not like to talk. And I will no longer mention that, despite the three times promised irreconcilability of the functions of the Member and the Mayor, there is neither the spirit nor the hearing. However, the biggest confusion is Article 27 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, since it refers to the prohibition of membership and activities and provides, inter alia, that a professional official must not be a member or engage in management, control or representation activities in companies, public institutions, public funds, agencies, societies, institutions and so on. Furthermore, Article 83 of the Act provides that officials who, on the date of application of this Act, are members of the body in contravention of Article 27 of this Act shall make a declaration of resignation within two months of the application of this Act. In practice, this means the following. By August of this year, the Deputy Clerk or Mayor shall make a withdrawal declaration for membership in the Supervisory Board or the Board of the Institute. Given that the fall of the local elections will be inadvertently set a two-month deadline, since it will be difficult to secure the appointment of new representatives during the summer months and in the pre-election period, it will be difficult to convene municipal councils, and it may also be possible for someone who is now a professional deputy or mayor after the election of this office in four months. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to begin by asking: Why should the Presidents of the Supervisory Councils, as you know, be reorganized prematurely in the year of local elections, when you know that everything will change and that there will be a conflict by August and then another conflict in the elections? People will be replaced by a liquid tape, and the whole point is completely lost. Totally! Because it is no longer a matter of control, but it is only a matter of appointment and political seats, without anyone knowing what is happening in these public institutions and public enterprises. So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Ms Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, will be responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u119	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Mr. Barovich! This was precisely the point of amending the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, so that the political functions of individual political officials, who are professional officials, would not accumulate in one place. Membership in the supervisory board or in the board of directors or even in the board of directors - we are even aware of the fact that someone who is mayor, including the director of the municipal company - is absolutely inappropriate by corporate management, which is desirable in these places. In order to avoid being policy monitors, we have long done this separation at national level. And the point is to delegate to the supervisory councils, not political, but competent experts, who are absolutely municipal or state authorities, who are the founder of this person of public law or a company in 100% state ownership, fully trust that they will exercise professional control on behalf of the founder. At the same time, the founder of the professional mayor and the professional sub-district is a regulator, as he lays down conditions by regulations, municipal or national, as to how a compulsory public service is carried out, confirms the work programme, monitors the use of resources. Therefore, it is not right that he is alone as a supervisor at the same time. That's just inappropriate. Therefore, due to our undisputed desire to separate political from professional functions, we have succeeded in supporting the National Assembly with this separation of functions. Now you're going to have to worry that in local elections it's inappropriate. As of 5 June 2010, without any problem, you can make a public call, as we do at the state level, to seek a competent expert in the field of knowledge of the functioning of a particular public service, such as a municipal company, a company, an invitation, the conditions of what kind of experts are wanted and the founder of a non-political group chooses one who will be entrusted with supervision or management. That was the point, Mr Barovic. Of course, we wanted, as you probably remember, to adopt this law at the beginning of this year. By means of its law, the SDS Group has slowed the procedure a little bit, so that these changes would have been made at the right time, sometime since March. The second thing you are reading is that we have failed in this law to regulate the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. I can absolutely thank your parliamentary group here for supporting this arrangement, because we personally had this proposal in the basic version of the Integrity Act. With the coalition's parliamentary groups, we have come to realize that it is more systemicly wise to regulate this incompatibilities in the law on Members. As you know, the coalition's parliamentary groups have tabled this amendment to the Law on Members, but unfortunately they did not support the majority enough. We have had a very serious discussion on this subject, and the coalition groups have also made a public commitment to support this incompatibility by the end of this year by re-submitting a new paper on non-compatibilities with most of the coalition's votes. And then invited by your voices to help support this incompatibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u121	Madam Minister, once again I would like to ask you, I will try to be very simple to listen to me. I'm the mayor, unprofessional. The public utility company is in the 100 percent ownership of the municipality. And as a non-professional mayor, I shouldn't have been president of the Supervisory Board, and I had to appoint a professional vice-martial to be president of the Supervisory Board. That he is the President of the Supervisory Board, the company you set up yourself, of course, is logical for you to see how he works, how he has the resources. This is logical, but it is not logical, Madam Minister, that the director of a public utility company is at the same time a representative, a member of the assembly and even a municipal councillor, when he sets himself up and determines the fate of the company to which he is director. I can't control him as the owner. And now you will call from the road Peppet and Loizet or Micka, in nicknames, "experts" who will oversee the business of a public utility company owned by me, municipal, not mine, me, the mayor, the mayor - we have to take care of good business. It doesn't make sense, I'm sorry, look, but you can speak politically any way you want! Today, SNS is a political authority in the congregation, tomorrow it will be SD and tomorrow it will be the day after. Does this mean that if you give John, who is a member of Really today and win the local elections in October for real, you will now throw this John, who has one function, back from the board of public utilities, for example, and give one another? Do you understand me?Oh, my God! This is today, and perhaps October will be no more, and we will now throw it away so that maybe we can put it back. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense! Excuse me. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Madam Minister, you can talk about wanting to prevent politics as much as you want! [[...]] What is mine or the congregation should be supervised by the one who runs the congregation because he cares about the availability of the congregation. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u123	It is undeniable that the founder is responsible in terms of the public for the transparent, open and proper functioning of enterprises or public utilities or other institutions to which he is established. The difference between you and the regime, which is more than established in democratic countries, is this: do I, as the founder of the congregation, if I want to oversee this public utility, have to sit physically and be a member of the supervisory board? No, that's not necessary. On behalf of the founder, therefore, it is up to you to be controlled by the people you choose on the basis of a public call, where you define the competences these people should have in the field of economics, law and real estate. As the founder, you have every opportunity in your hands to commit these overseers to supervision and not then ask the administration, but ask the supervisors and give instructions on how to act. They're reporting to you. You don't have to physically be your own supervisor at the same time. There are few situations where these public companies are dealing with loss. Then who's covering this loss? Municipal authorities. And if the mayor's the supervisor at the same time, see when there's a loss, what does that mean? [[...]] That he was a catastrophic supervisor, that he failed to carry out his task of being responsible for damages, because today public utilities are in 100% state ownership. They act as companies, but they have a monopoly on the performance of public economic services. And it is also the public's interest that these functions do not interfere with each other, that the authorities do not concentrate in the hands of a handful, but that they are distributed in the event of supervision. Let them be competent, but be able to monitor it on behalf of the founder. These practices, which mean learning corporate governance, mean a clear sharing of the regulator's competence, the policy-maker and the operator entrusted with the implementation of the programme on behalf of the founder [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the policy of determining measures and so on. [[...]] I think this is very healthy for Slovenian democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u124	Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u125	Before I say what's coming, then in the third, let me just -- yeah, you know, it's nice to be responsible for everything that's yours, answer yes, monitor how your money is used, but you can't. First stupidity and illogicality. And a second time. You set a fine example, Madam Secretary. The President of the Supervisory Board, there will be a loss, yes, in any case, the municipality will pay the loss to a public utility company. If you're a supervisor, if you know why it was made, and you know you're guilty if you were undercover, and you pay. But the best part is that someone else is the supervisor, and I'm gonna pay. I'm only responsible and a mercenary, but I have no right to control it. It is, Madam Secretary, total chaos. Try to understand that we are looking from a different point of view, and you know administrative regulation, I know that, but once you're in practice, I think the rest of your colleagues would tell you. There is no extension, at least let it stay the way it is, the law has to be respected, it has to be changed by August. Given that I am convinced that there is a great deal of confusion in Articles 27 and 83 on these content, I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that, on the basis of Article 246 of the next meeting, we hold a debate and clarify these complete, at least in my opinion, incomprehensible and vague terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, we know that it is possible to discuss the reply of the Minister concerning your question. This will be decided tomorrow, in the framework of the votes, and this will not necessarily be the interpretation of the disputed articles you are referring to. Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor to ask the question of the Minister for Home Affairs, Mrs Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, about 12 years ago, when we were drafting a law on police, we were thinking a lot about whether to include anything in this law on the subject of relations between the minister and the police. Somehow, there was the belief that everything else was regulated and that this was not necessary. However, Article 2 of the Police Act was written, which was already in the basic text of the Police Act of 1998, which essentially determined the relationship between the Minister and the Director of Police. Later, in 2002, perhaps 2003, it turned out that it is not that you are the two most responsible, that is, the internal minister and the chief of police explain very differently. There's been even one famous constitutional decision, I believe you know it. This constitutional provision has made it very clear that the Minister of the Interior has the absolute right and duty to oversee the work of the police. And not just giving the police directions, instructions. In fact, the Constitutional Court said that there was no act in which the Minister of the Interior should not look at it, contrary to what the then Director of Police had said. Thus, the situation following that constitutional decision is relatively clear. I hear you all the more in public when you say, "The police work independently, I don't know anything about it!" And so on. Which gives me some impression, at least I'm getting it, of course I expect a response from you to tell me a little bit about the implementation of Article 2 of the Police Act in Article 2 of the Police Act, quite clearly states that the Ministry of the Interior, you are leading it, establishes developmental, organisational, human resources and other guidelines for the work of the police. In 2003, this article was supplemented by this article and some others had, but 2.a said, "The Minister may request reports, data, documents concerning police performance. The chief of police must report regularly to the minister at his request on the work of the police and on all important issues with the police, and the minister shall give mandatory instructions to the director of the police." In this regard, I ask you: How many mandatory instructions have been given during your mandate in the field of challenging forms of crime? When did you pass them? Are they being taken into account by the police? And what I'm interested in is the most, and I would also like a more accurate answer: What are your priorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member, if you quote me, quote me exactly. I have repeatedly said that I am not interfering with the operational work of the police, I am not starting or finishing police procedures. This is not my jurisdiction under any law. And that's what I'm holding on to. Of course, I am aware of the powers that go to me in accordance with Article 2 of the Police Act, which you are quoting, and of the guidelines and mandatory instructions to the police, because of this awareness, we have raised to a significantly higher level than we have in the past. In doing so, we have pursued the fundamental objective of ensuring that only systematically targeted and supervised police and other security actors guarantee a high level of human security and respect for human rights. So a system-based and supervised police, not an operationally targeted and supervised police force. For this reason, we have also significantly strengthened the work of the Directorate for Police and other security tasks. The Ministry oversees and directs the work of the police through this Directorate, so we have also limited it human resources, so that it is now possible to carry out its tasks professionally and thoroughly, which was not a practice in the previous mandate. I'm a police officer through the competent directorate of the 26th. Ten. 2009 gave guidance for the preparation of an annual work plan in 2010. These guidelines cover all areas of police work, such as prevention, detection and investigation of crime, maintenance of public order and reduction of violence and vandalism, road safety, security of the state border and prevention of illegal migration, and the organisation and strengthening of police sightings. In the area of crime detection and investigation, it is stipulated that the police must take into account certain priorities when preparing the annual work plan. There are two priorities on which you ask: the prosecution of economic and financial crime and corruption and the prosecution of organised crime, particularly in the field of illicit drugs and trafficking in human beings. However, the Directorate of Police and other Security tasks may, of course, also draw up specific guidelines relating to a particular area, competence or task if it considers that this is necessary because of the legitimate and professional performance of the tasks. On 18 January 2010, I issued to the police guidelines and mandatory instructions to redistribute the handling of more complex acts, where it was found that there were longer delays in the allocation of individual cases in some of the police's organisational units in the handling of criminal offences, in particular the content of difficult economic crime cases. Guidance has been given to the police to ensure that the establishment of the National Investigation Office of the Police Administration will deplete the handling of the most serious forms of crime, including economic crime, and to verify the existing criteria for redistribution of cases and adapt them to the new organisation. On 12 February 2010, I issued to the police guidelines and mandatory instructions to harmonise the procedures for obtaining traffic data on the electronic communications network. In the control carried out, it was found that the behaviour of the participating authorities and institutions in obtaining data on traffic in the electronic communications network was in some cases inconsistent and inconsistent. In order to remedy the deficiencies identified, the police must reach an agreement with the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office on the simplification of the conduct prior to obtaining a traffic order on the electronic communications network. In the light of the findings of the Police Directorate on the marked increase in robbery and robbery in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in the first trimester of this year, I requested a report from the police on the measures and activities they are carrying out to more effectively investigate robbery than one of the more difficult forms of property crime. Police have reported that they have prepared and have already forwarded to all police administrations a strategy of work in the area of property crime, including the search for robberies. The strategy provides, inter alia, that the tasks in the area of robbery are to be carried out by 30 July 2010. With regard to your question, the honourable Member, how the police implement these guidelines, I must add that, in addition to the systematic supervision carried out by the Directorate, the police regularly report on the implementation of the guidelines and all my guidelines include provisions on mandatory reporting and deadlines for their implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, as the one who wrote you the answer, given that you read it, probably assumed that I would verbally attack you. And I didn't, and I won't be with you any more. You said you gave these guidelines in the area of persecution of economic and organised crime. I would very much like you to give us some direction in that sense, and I would say that we need to clean up old things, that we need to go in order, in our own words, of this worst crime. This is the same, now I see the Minister of Environment as if he was making some decisions now and those in 2006 should not. That's how you do it. The situation is next. In this term, Mr Jankovic, because you knew that I would say that, it was not yet my turn. Your political supporter, Mr Jankovic, has not come. I don't know when he'll be here. You said it wasn't your turn because you didn't have enough criminals. And he's suspected of exactly the kind of crime you've been targeting. But it was Mr. Rupel's turn. He's got a three-year-old anniversary of some sort of complaint. It was Mr Sturm's turn, who has a three-year-old anniversary of the indictment. Mr Simonita, who has a junior year of three years, is next in line, Mr Janša. Say, write in two months after you're publicly accused of what you're supposed to do. It'll be his turn, I suppose, Mr. Blackach. It was his turn to look at the fraction, Mr Slavko Fatak, who told the Committee on Internal Policy that Mrs Mirjana Učakar did not speak the truth, but would not say which, because for polite reasons, the lady was not present. It was already his turn. Madam Minister, this data prevents me if you do not give political guidance, and at least you give your views to the chiefs of police who follow the political direction. I'm sorry, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Kresalova will assess how much an answer can be given to your supplementary requests and will give it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u133	For a little while. Dear Member, I'm sorry you feel that way because your hints are too much. I also have no doubt about the well-intentionedness of your questions, so I also gave you a very precise list of all the mandatory guidelines, instructions, because I thought you wanted to hear them, which I gave you. The answer was solely for the purpose of giving you as precise explanations as possible about how much we are doing for the good of the police system. But he was read for a simple reason, because five minutes is a short time and he needs to be as quick as possible. Of course I know what direction I'm giving to the police. As I know that, despite my constant explanations, you are the most insidious issue of Zoran Jankovic, but once again I would like to point out that the Directorate of the Criminal Police of the General Police received an anonymous criminal complaint in January 2007. That it was still deep in the mandate of Minister Matei, we know this, and that it was also then further removed and dealt with on the principle of solving the burden of individual units of the criminal police. As I have explained on several occasions, as soon as this complaint becomes public disputed, you need to understand that as a minister, I do not know what the state of the complaints is, nor do I know what the complaints are, because it is not my jurisdiction to know and therefore I cannot demand them. In short, when doubts arose in the public about what was going on with this complaint, I immediately requested a police report explaining that there had been a real delay in transferring these cases to other police administrations, because due to the excessive burden of Ljubljana - in short, it had been said that they had already explained that there had been a delay and that they had taken measures to ensure that this delay had not occurred again. I have explained several times that this matter is being dealt with in a normal manner, like everyone else. I don't want to answer your suggestions that only your colleagues are in a variety of procedures, even mine, including me, so I think the police are working completely independently and impartially. I will clearly continue to use all my powers to that end: independent expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u135	I think you've been more polite now. But okay, I can't ask you any more questions. I'll just say it like that. I don't think cops would only deal with my colleagues, because who would be my special colleague? They were ministers of the former government, I counted you and nothing else. Look, every time - and I'm going to propose a debate - every time I run into some data, how exactly one person who writes Jankovic can get things stuck is not in time and so on. Of course, I will repeat this question about Mr Jankovic there once in October, and I will tell you today. Why? Because it's time, it's been three years, and it's also right that this thing moves forward. I have a feeling that my former fellow police officers, I'm not going to blame you for anything but unfortunately I feel like they're working in some way that's not the right way. Because, look, even in some online newspaper they fly in and do an investigation, they block a complicated newspaper just because there's a person there who's kind of a lot of a situation in this country, and he's kind of critical -- and sometimes a member of parliament. [[...]] In short, I think or think that the situation is serious, that the situation is ripe for one in-depth debate on the work of the police in the field of priority. Not the National Assembly or the Ministry has no right to interfere in a particular case and to deal with it, I agree, but the order that the police are collecting today convinces me that these are political order and that these are not professional or time-orders. That's why I think it's right for the National Assembly to say something. But I'm predicting today that in a few months, I'll ask again what's going on with this complaint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Gorenak, that the National Assembly discusses the response of Minister Katarina Kresal, we will decide tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Janez Ribič to the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Ministers, Minister of Transport, ladies and gentlemen. In the public debate or on your web portal there are amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act and the Slovenian Railway Company Act. Among the objectives of the proposed laws is to abolish the Slovenian Directorate of Public Infrastructure Investment, to exclude it from the system of public servants in the Ministry of Transport and to join the company Infrastructure, which is supposed to be an enterprise in the management of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the holding company of Slovenian Railways. The tasks of the Directorate, in particular I am referring to the management of investments in public rail infrastructure, are to be transferred to the Slovenian Railways, which also carry out the tasks of the Infrastructure Manager. The tasks of control of economic public services and maintenance of railway infrastructure are to be transferred to the Ministry of Transport. I'm asking you: Why is such a reorganisation necessary? The Maribor Directorate’s headquarters provides all the necessary facilities, software and infrastructure for the tasks performed by the Directorate. How do you imagine that the same entity of the Slovenian Railway with EUR 400 million of losses can lead an investment and exercise control over parts that are implemented or even carried out themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Dr. Patrick Vlačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for asking. In fact, it is also intended to be a public debate to exchange views on how to proceed with what we call the accelerated construction of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. You yourself have asked a very good question why a directorate such as this cannot manage the task assigned to it. The answer is relatively simple: because the Republic of Slovenia is ahead of the major investment cycle in railway infrastructure. Ninety people, as many as work in this agency, could provide a service for the agency in a small amount of work. In large part, however, the question arises whether these 29 people who are currently employed could lead so many projects, after all, only the National Assembly adopted a regulation this year, which provides directly 100 million cross-financing from the car tax, plus almost 300 additional million more in rail infrastructure, which is about 0.8 GDP, which is nearly 3 times more than the previous government has committed. This means that the scope of this Directorate's work will increase enormously. Now there's a dilemma that's classic. Whether to hire new people, 10, 20, 30, 40, I don't know how much, or look for some way to bring all the synergies of railway knowledge in building infrastructure together into one pillar. And of course, one of the ideas that is now in the air is to get rid of what the directorate is, the real state apparatus, the civil servants, they put them in an economic society, and this economic society could also employ people of the engineering type who could take these projects forward, combine them synergisticly; those who are already there, and would practically create a strong pillar that would be able to build railway infrastructure in Slovenia. However, since I think that public debate must actually be a public debate, and not a public debate itself, I think your question is a good one. And it was today that I had a meeting with my colleagues on this subject, and I ordered them to prepare me with a number of possible models. Look, after all, one of the models that Slovenia knows is Dars' model. Thus, to establish an economic society which has this task. Now, in the direction we have at least three models at this point: one that is now too easy in public debate is a real merger into one pillar within railways; the other is to stay as it is, and let us try to convince the country that the reduction in the number of employees in the state administration is important, but in this case it cannot be so, because otherwise we will not implement projects. That's the second model. The third model is to set up a private economic society that will have the task of doing so as a 100% state-owned individual. So what I said is, they blow up, they check all these models. The matter is still in public debate, it is not decided, nothing has moved yet from Maribor and all I want - and I will also come before you Members - to make, with this model, a model in which we as a country will be able to attract these big investments. Only the second track weighs 800 million euros. And what's at this point in time is that she's not capable of taking all of what we're doing to her with our plans over the next few years. I'm telling you, I repeat, nothing has been decided. So today I've ordered a number of possible models to be examined. We'll see which one's most suitable. I am very open, I will say, for everything, only that it will be as good for the country as possible, and that we will use taxpayer money as wisely as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you. I like this openness so that we can talk about getting the best out with good ideas and maybe suggestions. That is why I am sure that you will study so that there will also be a strong pillar in Maribor. Perhaps some more thinking; now the abolition, for example, of control over the Slovenian Railway company and the transition of all 30 employees we are talking about for an indefinite time, one is even employed for a certain period of time, and you send them as a permanent surplus to the Employment Service or something like that, you probably don't think in this direction. In accordance with the Construction Act, it is unacceptable for the same entity to carry out works, to conduct investments and to exercise control over works carried out or even carried out on its own. In this regard, you will likely also consider that marriage will also be satisfied. The European Union did not allow, probably, to take care of the preparation, organisation and management of investments in all stages of the investment process by the Slovenian Railway entity - as I mentioned before - with a 400 million loss, and which is planning to lose 30.3 million net losses in 2010. Slovenian railways appear in a number of roles, which are otherwise unacceptable, because the Construction Act explicitly prohibits them, as I said before. Some of our thoughts, too, in Maribor on Kopitarjevo 5, are all necessary premises, software and infrastructure for the tasks they perform, so it makes sense that as a body within the Ministry it continues to do so. And maybe I'm running out of time - I don't know, it wasn't three minutes now. I want to know: What will be your final steps to keep the Slovenian Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investments in Maribor from taking steps towards centralisation instead of decentralisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Minister Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you. This will also be one of the dimensions of decentralisation of the country, for sure. And also the questions that you have just opened regarding the construction of buildings are, after all, questions about the use of public money or the transfer to an economic society. These are also open questions. What I'm trying to say is that each of these models I've described to you before brings with them a number of questions. The advantages and weaknesses each of them have, and we will have to find one that is wisest. But no matter what the solution is. I think it's going to be necessary to have project offices in an area where a project is being made. For example, at the second course of Divača-Koper, there will certainly have to be some part of the staff present directly to the project. But I don't see any difficulty in not taking this criterion into account, which I also think is important, that the country is going into some kind of decentralisation; and if it is going to go, then there would be a trend of centralisation, unless there really is any other solution, but it would be so justified that it would then be really clear. But I will, I say again, follow this criterion very, very clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the minister of environment and space Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Member, Members, distinguished ministers! The road along the watercourse through the grape which connects Vranje Pec in the Municipality of Kamnik and Kolovec or the municipality of Domžale is an important short link with the municipality of Domžale and Ljubljana. After the storm in 2002, the State assessed the damage in that area and approved certain funds, but only part of the planned remedial actions were to be carried out. As the state of recovery is not expected to fully implement, as envisaged by the programme, the storms in 2007 are expected to cause additional, even greater damage, including in the already-saved part of the area. The Municipality of Kamnik regulates this local road and recently completed its part of the rehabilitation by making three failures and then the State is expected to perform the rehabilitation this year, in accordance with the adopted rehabilitation programme. These days, the locals of this area informed me that the Ministry of Environment and Space was to decide that the planned remedial work would not be carried out this year. If this information were true, this would also be an irrational decision from a cost point of view. Experience has shown that a story can be repeated that would result in additional costs in the autumn storms in the already partially rehabilitated part of the area. The constant rehabilitation of the road due to the unregulated watercourse, which requires the relocation of machinery and the preparation of works, greatly increases the cost of the entire investment for the municipality as well. Postponing rehabilitation costs are unnecessary additional public costs, so I ask you: Did your ministry really decide to postpone the repair of the chandelier in the ravine on this road? If so: What is the reason for the postponement of the rehabilitation that, according to experience so far, is likely to result in additional costs for the rehabilitation of the road? And: When will the state complete the rehabilitation of this area that has been towed since 2002? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Mlakar, honourable Members! On this issue, I have examined the situation. As you have rightly found, injuries were detected in 2002 and these increased in 2007 due to major storms. According to the known information available to us, no specific appropriations from the budget were allocated to this section in 2002. We started the rehabilitation in 2009, when we stabilized the inflows at the Great Grab and stabilized the hives on the inflow of the Middle Grab. For these works, funds amounting to €53 000,443,000 of the estimated €150 000 were spent on the entire rehabilitation. We planned to continue with the parts in 2010, because the recovery programme was to address the effects of the floods. 9. 2007 on the water infrastructure of water and coastal land for €5 million planned. At the last meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a 2010 budget rebalancing, which completely reduced the unused funds in the rehabilitation programme and therefore reduced the total amount of €2 million by €740 thousand - it is not only this case, it is another one - the funds have fallen out and the Central Grab River is worth €15 000, which I agree is not much. The works at this facility are expected to continue the following year if funds are provided, but we believe that in view of the recovery dynamics it is still necessary to provide some regular maintenance funds in the framework of the public service this year in order to avoid further damage to the facilities. I agree with your thinking that if a construction site closes now, there will be an additional cost for the construction of a new construction site and there will be higher amounts, and on the basis of what you have said further, I will ask myself what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you so much for this re-thinking, I think it's necessary. Maybe I'll give you another reason why you should reconsider what to do with this area. In fact, it is also a very dangerous section of the road, where traffic accidents are expected to occur due to the narrowing of the road and the damaged road. By the way, he's slipping cars into the top of his head. However, since there is no cell phone signal in the ravine to call for help in the event of an accident, this further increases the risk to human life in the event of road accidents again. So I would really ask you if you could reconsider this problem so that, on the basis of this consideration, you can decide to remedy this area as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We should probably find some other solutions with another ministry, if this is about the road and so on, and I will look into what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Justice a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable ministers. In this mandate, the characteristics of the Government and also of your department, Mr Minister, are that you have adopted a number of laws that favour certain social elites. You immediately went with the amendment of the Law on Lawyers' Tariffs, where you returned the possibility of deciding on legal tariffs to the lawyers themselves or to the Chamber, you went into a change of law so that the salaries could be raised to the judges, and now it is again in preparation a law that will empower notaries and, of course, lawyers. What's this all about? This is a change to the Land Book Act, which contains solutions that will burden again - someone other than Slovenian taxpayers. I want to know: Why are you going to change court rates? Because it is now known that 80% of the entries in the land book are at the expense of so-called low values, and the value of such entries was now around 12 euros. Now you're going to go into a change that sets a single price, which means 100 euros. By comparison, someone who buys or sells a land worth 500 or 1000 euros will be able to make this change worth 100 euros in the land book. Another anomaly of such a single system is that now there was a scale, that those who sold or sold land, business premises, buildings of great value, tycoons, rich people only paid 5,000 euros or more. Now, everyone will pay exactly the same amount again, which will again favour the rich, poor people, or those who will sell or have lower value, will also pay 12 euros or 100 euros. And now another anomaly of this law. Why is it envisaged that all these changes will have to be introduced by notaries? The notaries have already been in a privileged position here, by taking away some of these privileges from them in the previous term. Here, too, it is important or interesting to note that this has been very critical to the professional public, which you have completely excluded, and these suggestions or warnings have not been taken into account. That's why I want to know: Where are these major changes, and why are such changes envisaged? And: What does this actually bring into our legal order? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice has the floor, Mr. Aleš Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Member of the Commission, I am grateful for this issue in particular because in recent days a number of misinformation, including information manipulation with regard to recent amendments to the Land Book Act, has emerged. I'll go in one order. First of all, I have to say no to what you just said at the beginning, that the government has the privilege of certain layers and that we have made it possible to raise legal tariffs. That's not true at all. The legal tariffs are unchanged, as set out by the previous Minister or the previous National Assembly, I have already rejected twice the proposal to increase these tariffs, if necessary, for the third time. With regard to the rise in court salaries, it was only in line with two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which the former Government did not wish to comply with. As for the land book, let me say that we are pursuing two goals. The first objective is greater legal certainty. This shall also be ensured by ensuring that the applicants are qualified. Today, the Supreme Court points out the large number of incomplete land-book proposals tabled by people who are right-wing non-scientific parties, which prolongs the proceedings, while increasing the legal danger of changing ownership, changing the status of a property and property within a reasonable time frame, this is a great room for manipulation, abuse, twice-sales of the same property, and we want to prevent it. This is not enough, from this address is very good in Slovenia. Our proposal follows the next objective that each land book case be resolved within four days, four days at the latest, Mr Member, not within a few months, as it is today. We are pursuing this objective and we can achieve this goal. The mandate for this amendment was given by the previous National Assembly, which postponed the application of the e-commerce with the Land Book for a period of time, more specifically until the beginning of 2011. In the meantime, the Supreme Court has drawn up all computer programmes and has enabled this project of information support in the land book to be completed with this legal change. This therefore increases legal certainty, increases speed and also improves efficiency in terms of price for end-users. And now I'm going to the part where you mentioned the overpriced prices that are supposed to be charged to future customers, both notaries and lawyers or even the courts - no, Mr. Ambassador! Here and here we hold the scissors and the canvas, because at the same time they are going into procedure with this Land Book Act and the Law on Court Fees and the amendment of the Notary Tariff. Notary tariffs will be reduced, and this will significantly decrease in these cases, the court fee will be reduced and significantly reduced in these cases, so that the end user, i.e. the citizen, the individual, will in any case be better, both those who sell or enter into real estate transactions with relatively low values and those with high values. I'd like to remind you of the following. In the previous term, the National Assembly considered a similar situation when amending the Law on the Court Register when electronic transactions with the Court Register were introduced, the requirements of working in the courts have been reduced to such an extent that there was no real reason for these services to be charged by the Courts at all, and the National Assembly has decided to abolish and not charge them. We are also thinking about a similar variant of land book cases because we are going exactly the same way and, in fact, we are looking at a pattern of this way of modernising our land book, the one who was successful in the register of justice. See how the court register works today: no backlogs, in three to five days, no charges charged by the court to the final user. And so we want to do it the same way in the land book. In short, this project is geared towards substantial modernisation and easier access to an individual's land book, and another advantage should be highlighted. This system will allow free electronic access to anyone's land book. We were here on different shores with the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court considered that it would be right to charge this service. The Ministry believes that no, and I hope that the Government will support this proposal from the Ministry, so that this service for citizens will also be free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, there is no guarantee of any greater legal certainty that these entries are to be implemented inside. As long as we have witnessed many irregularities in the past, even the affairs that the notaries have caused, so this guarantee does not apply here, of course. I agree with that. An electronic land book is an acquisition. And why don't you think in the direction that those who enter are not just not only notaries, not just lawyers, let's get this thing extended. At each district court, let the official enter into an electronic land book on the basis of a written form or application of an interested person. Why don't we expand this thing to unit management? There they have a cadastral, they have an insight, they have qualified people, and they could also be introduced, and that would also shorten the time you mentioned, how long it takes today, and what is new. Thus, there is such a possibility to expand the number of authorised professionals who will be able to enter as many options as possible. So it's better to think in this direction forward. However, as far as these findings are concerned, or the indications that other legislation should change, which will lower notary tariffs and court fees, we will see whether this is true, but also now that representatives from your ministry are not above the solutions currently envisaged, but also in the public debate they do not agree with this, especially the critical professional public. Let us hope that when this law is being considered, that what you have just stated will indeed be like one of the parallel solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u158	Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. With regard to this critical professional public and the Ministry experts, we are on the exact same coast here, at least as far as the experts at the Ministry are concerned, I can completely reassure you about this. Professional discussions have been ongoing for some time. The last one was held this morning at the Supreme Court and I think it was very useful. We are very careful to take into account all aspects of a change. Of course, any change can carry certain risks with it and we want to avoid them as much as possible. Why notaries as authorised candidates? First of all, because anyone who does any business today that has an entry into the land book has to go to the notary because he has to verify the signature on this charter. Well, if he has to go to the Notary, why should he go somewhere else now? He can do anything in one place. Now it is only this question whether we are able to arrange this service in one place at such a price that it will be the same or cheaper than today. I say that, with this proposal, we will come to the National Assembly in a short time, and you will, of course, decide whether we will meet these standards. Lawyers also remain authorised proponents, especially because some have such a confidential relationship with their clients that their clients want to check in some way again the service being prepared to enter the land book. However, I must say that according to the Supreme Court, in more than 90% of the cases, all the Land Book proposals proposed by notaries are ready for immediate entry, without any addition, unlike all other applicants, in particular those that are not qualified, where the situation is precisely reversed, where most of these proposals are incomplete and many of them are still rejected. And these are the reasons why we think that makes sense. However, when you mention the possibility for a party to bring such proceedings directly before the court, this is possible, but this requires a substantial internal reorganisation in the courts. In particular, savings in employees and thus in the use of their burdens in other matters would be much lower, as they would then have to have a so-called tent system where the referees would enter these data in electronic forms. So if we can come up with a cost-effective model, where you have to go to the notary anyway, it probably doesn't make sense to introduce this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Well, given your remarks, Mr Minister, that there is still a debate on this issue, it would certainly be useful to discuss this issue and these issues in the National Assembly. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a broader discussion be held here, to present these documents or arguments to the professional public, yours and other sources, and then to try to reach the best solution on the basis of these findings. However, I am personally convinced that competition is in no way harmful. So if it is not only for notaries and lawyers, if such services are allowed to be provided in courts, in the administrative unit, at VEM points, for example, there can certainly be a lot of solutions. Notaries will also strive to work with quality. This does not mean that if someone comes to the notary to confirm the signature that he must then leave this service to the end of the day alone, let the customer decide for himself and let competition get us to better services. I am sure that such a debate will benefit you and, above all, Members and Members of Parliament that we will be able to make sufficient quality decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Grill, to discuss Mr Zalar's response to your question will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Now Member Zvonko Lah has the floor to ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President! In the negotiations on the average level, representatives of the Ministry of Finance were told that the average or appropriate consumption of municipalities meant only funds for ongoing work, but not for investments, and that these funds should be provided in individual ministries. However, these resources are very few, at least at the Ministry of Education and Sport for pre-school education and primary education. In addition, there was no call for investment in 2009 and it is not yet available this year. Minister: Should not unallocated funds be allocated for those projects that have been waiting for ten years to be implemented, in full compliance with the Ministry of Education and Sport's professional service, because otherwise they did not go according to their criteria, but the municipality cannot start building if the Ministry does not provide funds that go to them under the Community Financing Act? The projects have been invested in a lot of resources and a lot of effort after multi-annual coordination, projects are ready, but the municipality cannot form a financial structure and start building itself. Since 2009, however, the funds have not been distributed and there is still no call for proposals this year. The situation, however, we know that it is currently very favourable for financing or for the construction of these facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u164	The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšič, will be responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u165	Dear Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! There are not many of these congregations that the Member of Parliament is asking about. I only know one thing, this is the municipality of Mirna Pec, where the investment has not started since 1998. And that's for the reasons that the Member of Parliament has been talking about. So in 1998, the congregation received an invitation to tender, and a financial structure was set up. The Ministry was then, under the rules of the day, with a certain amount of this investment, but failed to provide funds to the municipality. As the Member said, the municipality is weak in the budget and also in agreement with us, and also with other ministries listed here, we have tried to look for various options, however, how we would go into realisation, because we are interested in being a departmental ministry to put both the gym and primary school and kindergarten there. However, there was no solution within that call. We see the only solution in applying for a new invitation to tender, which is now in early July, and in reducing investment. In this case, they could probably come along, but of course this risk is because a new law on the financing of municipalities has been passed and the Ministry of Education can pay up to 80% of the investment, i.e. no less. This means that only some, substantially less than before, will be included - we estimate that for these amounts, there will be up to 4, not more than 5. So there is a risk that the municipality of Mirna Pec will not even be included in this list, which would, of course, be a major damage. So this is the situation that is even more worrying on the one hand, because the government has decided that this year's balance is shrinking, or budget funds, mainly at investments, as we have done. As far as funds were available, we have already taken this suggestion into account, so the funds have gone to ongoing projects so that existing projects will not be compromised. Those who should start in September, October, November - these projects will be moved or moved in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u167	Look, Minister, the municipality didn't make such a big investment of its own. It was based on the direction of the Ministry of Education and Sport. And the project was fully coordinated with the Ministry. When the ideas were made, the Ministry's representatives promised that the Ministry would provide funds for construction, as they were doing under the Community Financing Act, before the municipality went to design and purchase the necessary land. So far, over a million euros have been invested in this project for the design and purchase of land. If it were said at the time that despite the congregation’s indebtedness, we knew, despite the maximum debt, that the congregation had nothing to do with it, and that we could not close the financial structure for ten years. Had it been said then, we would have stepped aside from this project, of course we wouldn't have thrown a million away and gone to other, more needed investments and waited or went to upgrade the old school, as we have done so far. Now it is a great damage; since the adoption of the financial documents, construction prices have changed significantly. Also 40% to 50% are currently lower prices. It would be a shame not to go now or to speed up the construction of such buildings, since you yourself said that in neighbouring Austria they did just that: they accelerated the construction of these buildings, the construction operation has work, and the state and the municipality come to quality facilities at a very low price.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u168	Mr. Minister Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u169	Desiring this to be built, not according to the norms that are in play, we're here with the mayor on the same side. The problem is that on this road, we just fix the already accepted and the call for an investment that has been made, so that this is not the way to go. The only way I see or see mine at the Ministry is to go on a new call and then come with new prices, with new proposals, with a real new project and then try. It's my only way. But it is certainly time for us to solve this problem because it has been dragging on for 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Agricultural Advisory Service and agricultural advice certainly constitute an important element of the system upgrade which enables the implementation of the strategy of both national agricultural policy measures and the actions of the European Union's common agricultural policy. However, the purpose of the agricultural advisory service is mainly to transfer knowledge from professional institutions to practice, it is said, by offering technological advice, legal advice and financial advice, which helps farmers in their business decisions. The Ministry of Agriculture, while giving 329 employees in the public agricultural advisory service an average of EUR 10 million 73,000 per year to carry out the advisory tasks. There has been a public opinion for some time that the public agricultural advisory service should be more present on the ground and, as already mentioned in the introduction, advise farmers on the restructuring and prudent use of agricultural policy measures. We note that the agricultural advisory service on the ground is almost absent, except during winter education, which are anyway payable. I asked a similar question to your predecessor, Dr. Pogačnik. Similar conclusions were reached in its report by the Court of Auditors. In the last five years, an average of 56.1% of all available time has been planned for advisory tasks, which means that less than half of all available time has been allocated for all remaining tasks. If this was justified during the period of establishment of the system for the implementation of the adaptation of Slovenian agriculture to the measures of the common agricultural policy - okay. However, the situation has not improved even now, although the system for the implementation of the adaptation of Slovenian agriculture to the common agricultural policy measures, according to your ministry, has practically been in place for some time. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Are you and what measures you intend to take to ensure that the agricultural advisory service devotes more attention to its basic mission, that is to advise farmers about new technologies for increasing competitiveness, development and so on? And then there's the other thing: How much money does the public agricultural advisory service collect from the services charged to farmers for the fulfilment of applications and various forms, such as the fulfilment of applications for agricultural policy measures, various opinions, business plans and so on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u172	The mag will answer. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u173	Once again, Mr President, and everyone else is present. I also agree with your question, Mr Member. In fact, the general opinion is and also the Court of Auditors has found everything you have listed and more. It has found that we, as a financier, i.e. the agricultural ministry, the advisory service and probably others, too, because these good ten million, as far as we finance the agricultural advisory service, are transfers from all the public services that are, of course, necessary, but must work effectively, even more - about sixty million more. They found that in fact we do not know exactly what we want to tell these services, and then very little or no efficiency in practice on the other hand. We measure efficiency through formal reports, but this is not what we want. As an example, if we finance that part of the advisory service responsible for tourism, we do not finance the advisory service to make a hundred thousand or two thousand lectures, we finance the emergence of two, five or ten new tourist facilities in a given area as support for agricultural activities in this area. What are we gonna change? First, we will tell the advisory service very clearly what we want from it. It will be easier for us to say this when - I hope - a new strategy is adopted as soon as possible, as this is also the result of measures. We will clearly distinguish what that advisory service activity is, which we as a public funder finance, what other activities are, and it is self-sustaining and has nothing to do with our funding. That's what you have to say. Thirdly, however, I must say that as far as the measures taken by the Advisory Service also work in the development programmes of the PRP are concerned, this is understood as the conclusion of the advisory work. So to agree with the farm, which are its opportunities, then agree on the project and then prepare the project. In order to increase efficiency, we have set up a special service within the reorganisation, which means reducing departments and services, which will be centralised over all these services, so that public money will be spent as best and more effectively as possible. However, as regards how many funds the agricultural advisory service acquires through its administrative measures, such as the fulfilment and control of applications, these funds amount to two million, one hundred and ninety-nine thousand euros. However, as far as public funding is concerned, I must say that in the rebalancing phase, we have decided to allow all the public services we finance to do well in 2010 in such a way as to enable all services to have the same amount of money, i.e. the same transfers as in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Now I don't know, maybe I overheard, but I don't know: Is it possible to improve the situation in the near future, or will the matter go in this direction? Indeed, it also follows from the Court of Auditors' annual report that even more spending was planned for this implementation of agricultural policy measures in 2009, 56.4% more than had been planned in the previous year, which amounted to 53.1% of the available time, despite what I have said that the system has practically already been established. Now, when can we expect this to improve this situation? And another finding that the Court of Auditors has also found out, and you have already mentioned it. On the contrary, the Ministry does not have or has not provided clear guidance on what we as a country want to achieve. This is also reinforced by the fact that the criteria and purposes of public calls for investment in agriculture are often changing. Because without a clear definition of the objectives by the Ministry and the development of a targeted strategy, counselling will continue to be a great risk that agriculture will not bring the desired result. However, I hope and wish you to have a happy hand as a minister in your work, which will benefit the Slovenian farmer and all of us who want to preserve the Slovenian countryside in all our writings, and in particular to achieve the highest possible degree of self-sustainment with good quality Slovenian food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you. Effectiveness will be best measured when we have goals and then we have indicators, and by this point, you will understand, now that the strategy is close to being ready for public debate, it makes no sense on the basis of the 2000 documents. That's what's most important. Otherwise, I fully agree with you. The fact that the service is not as effective as we want it to be is, of course, our own fault as we finance it. For we are the financiers of the service and in that public work, which we finance, if we know exactly what we want to say of it, we also know exactly what we want to control. However, if we do not know exactly what to say, we are also suitable for the play we have received through the Court of Auditors. When there will be a first redefinition of the programme, this is quite simple, when Members will accept the balance and have to adapt to this balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Ambassador Lázsló Göncz will ask the Minister of Finance Dr. France Križanič and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go. Lázslo Göncz: Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was already at the stage of the adoption of the intervention law on the elimination of drought damage in 2003, which unfortunately also took place. The biggest problem is that the consequences of certain inconsistencies and wrong professional assessments burden thousands of farm households even seven years after the adoption of the Act. The substance of the problem stems from an incorrect professional approach or from, in my opinion, an irresponsible professional assessment of the competent authorities, on the basis of which the Agency for the granting of State aid for the resolution of natural disasters in agriculture has provided more than 53,000 applicants. On this basis, several more than 32,000 beneficiaries received an advance and were intended for the purchase of feed, for livestock and for the payment of rematerial for autumn seed. Subsequently, the Ministry found that the initial assessments were inadequate and a review of the procedure concerning the payment of the funds was carried out. Farmers or households were informed too late by a decision of the Government to recover State aid to remedy the effects of the drought and were therefore justifiably indignant because they had already spent a number of advances on purpose by then. In autumn 2004, the Government decided that beneficiaries receiving overpayments of State aid of an amount equal to or less than 20,000 tolars at the time would be liable to write off overpayment claims. The blame was also made by the fact that when the debt was written off, the Government did not write it down equally to all debtors. One year after the decision to initiate the recovery of State aid resources expired, the National Assembly amended the law so that the beneficiaries of the excessively paid resources must return to the State budget no later than three years after the date of the decision. The current problem today stems from the fact that several weeks ago thousands of addresses were sent a reminder before enforcement, calling on debtors to settle their debts, including late payments, immediately. Most of the initial invoices have already been used, as I have already said, and as we know, the situation in agriculture has deteriorated significantly in recent years. I therefore ask, in particular, the Minister of Finance, and the substantively indirect Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food: Can they, within their powers, act to alleviate the problem, for example, by writing off late interest or in any other way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u180	Dear Member, the distinguished other present In 2003, agriculture received more sums, such as colds, prolonged droughts, storms with hailstones, carrion burns and so on, all of which were estimated to have caused almost 25 billion tolls of damage. At that time, the government also made the right decision to help farmers in several ways, but it was true that it wanted to help very quickly; because it helped quickly, it also helped flat-rate, and then it turned out in individual agricultural economies that the withdrawal went beyond the rules of the profession estimated damage. This difference then tried to make a comeback. I must say that, since then, 5,200 damages have been recovered from this difference of €1.1 million; at the outset, through the Agency for Agricultural Markets, tax administrations, which, although at different ends of Slovenia has acted differently, have been least effective in the Pmurje area. With jurisdiction now under the authority of the customs service, the remainder of the unpaid difference, which is approximately EUR 247 000 for approximately thousands of injuries, is essentially EUR 247 per agricultural economy. This recovery is now under way. It is quite clear to me, as an agricultural minister who knows the situation that is currently in all of Pomura, in Slovenia in the area of agricultural processing, that this is an additional severe blow, but at the moment we do not see any legal way to stop this recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I am pleased with what Mr. Secretary has said. Satisfied in the sense that there is probably nothing else to be said at this time. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, in the second part of the question, or the part which is exclusively of a financial nature, only to try to answer from the point of view of the Ministry's professional salary. Perhaps I would add one sentence to what Mr Minister stressed that this situation in the field of agriculture is not bad or worse, but acute and probably even more so in Pomour. As we have heard, and as far as the previous recovery is concerned, it is the worst in this area. I am so sorry to be skeptical myself, and in particular we must prevent such professional inconsistencies from occurring in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you. You wanted Dr. Križanič's Minister of Finance to answer orally at the next meeting or to receive a written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u184	I'm sorry, it can be written, but let it be, if possible, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u185	Good. Mrs Silva Črnugelj will ask the Minister of Culture Majdi Širca a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you so much for asking. Well welcomed, Mr Vice-President, Minister Majda Shirca, for the second time today. Obviously, culture is just so wide and a field that is endlessly open and very many people are interested in improving things as well. The Association has turned to me, namely the Society of NGOs, self-employed creators in culture, you well-known who work on some non-governmental program and project. I was warned that the Government was preparing a regulation on self-employed people in culture. In its programme and project to reduce administrative barriers in this area, the government also issued a regulation on self-employed people in culture on 27 May this year. This Regulation brings quite a few innovations and improvements, with which those self-employed in culture are relatively satisfied, as far as possible in these times of crisis. However, it is good to say that this regulation also contains some novelties, has some attachments, roles - how and how to solve those first primary issues, but because life is very complicated and also administration, and it is normal that self-employed people in culture also have comments on certain things. Of course, this list, led by the Ministry of Culture, is quite broad and extensive. As a result, the Ministry is likely to have quite a financial obligation to regulate this area. Despite all that this Regulation has brought and regulated and, in fact, has made considerable progress in this area, positive changes do not satisfy all employees in culture. Therefore, they point to the incomparable situation with other employees, the consequences they face in relation to those who are regularly employed. I want to know: Is the Ministry of Culture planning any further changes, sub-laws or possibly a separate act to regulate the area of self-employed in culture?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u188	Dear Member! I thank you for this question, which my colleague Svetlik has also listened to carefully, because it is indeed an uneasy rescue of employees or those people who are within the culture as creators, as performers, as producers. This is a whole range of professions, where employment is not, in fact, so to speak, except in the public sector, it is said, within the institutions. The employment in the field of culture is, in other words, stopped. And if the employment of the public sector, which we know within ministries, government services and so on, is stopped, the same applies to stopping within museums, within libraries, within theatres. Spectre of opportunities to have a large number of people, creative people, creative professions. can nowadays spread and employ, simply not. Regular employment, of course, means security. Of course, the spectrum of people we call self-employed in the field of culture does not have this security. Self-employed people in the field of culture are about 2,450 and 2,600, which has not changed excessively in recent years. Approximately 1,150 are such as to be paid by the State on the basis of the criteria to be met by the State for pension, disability, health and age insurance. As you yourself said, the regulation does bring some improvements, some more flexible forms of simplification, brings a list of deficits and other professions, also brings some positive changes, but the whole range of self-employed people in the field of culture does not have all the solutions they would like to be understood as comparable to employees. So if there's a self-employed creator, and he can be a hundred times better than those who have a safe job, create abroad, not get a travel assignment, not get insurance, not get all those logical, not say credit, but conditions that apply to employees. When he is unemployed, for example, he will not benefit from the status of the unemployed person, who also has the possibility of some diversions and so on. The minuses are small here, and these people are not guilty of anything if they can't get a job because there's a market like this with us. It is therefore right for the State to ensure that certain rights are also introduced for the self-employed or are strengthened, as they have already been introduced, strengthened, expanded or even further regulated. Since the first day we joined the Ministry of Culture, we have also begun to talk to the self-employed in the light of the preparation of joint calls, the means for their creation have been increased, but we have not yet completed all the questions that are being raised now that we have on the table a law on working relations and all the other laws that colleagues of Svetlik have primarily before us and are in line with us. But it is not as safe as we would like it to be, because the profession in the field of culture is somewhat specific self-employed are suppressed into the status that applies to economic societies. Their criterion for determining censorship is that pay grade within the public sector, the 35th grade, although it may be called a scientist, a high creator and so on, which is located in the public services of the 45th or even higher class.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Good thing Minister Svetlik's here. It's too bad there's no finance minister, but I'm going to read some of the requirements of this association, which, I would say, are truly vital and necessary. They're self-employed in culture. Let's do the analysis. And since your ministry also has the resources for such analyses, age, sex, degree, education, family relationship, how much hospital leave benefit, for example, it is those of the working relationship, how many hours a day, week, month work, or even have leave, and how many hospital status benefit from it, how much of the information about their working status, where they do their work, how they do it, under what working conditions, or is justified by the feeling of the majority of self-employed in culture, that this form of employment is less valuable than other forms, regardless of the same level of education, and not least this part of the standard material costs, which are also in the domain of one part of the tax administration, and not least how and in what way the pension is given. Sad and truly pathetic, according to the household, is that, say, top artists, painters, have up to 400 euros in pensions. And one more thing, I will tell the Minister of Culture that under this regulation, a government regulation relating to the law on the exercise of public interest in culture is not signed by you, but by Minister Golobič. I read the regulation six times, and I couldn’t believe it, but I finally read it and it was published in the Official Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you. You want to answer, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u192	It is very important to complement what the Member State has said. Dialogue with the non-governmental sector, not only with association, by the way, but also with others is going through everything. The result of this dialogue is also, in a way, a regulation that you are quoting or amending the law on the realization of public interest in culture, which is not yet completed. You will not find in this regulation any solution that we have advocated. Let's say that the average of the last three years of self-employed work in the field of culture is taken as a basis for retirement and also a self-evident extension of the payment of contributions. There's no other solution in there. We would like to because, after all, it is a dialogue that was simply not in the past. The non-governmental sector said they didn't even want to knock on their doors at the Ministry of Culture because there was no dialogue once. Now this is very sharp, very demanding and very constructive for my concepts, and I believe that in the past it will also come across results, especially in relation to new or future rules relating to the labour law and more. What we, or any government, would like to have a strong interlocutor who is not broken up into association 1, 2, 3 - so in recent discussions with the non-governmental sector, we thought together that a so-called chamber or cultural chamber that already exists and is more on paper than elsewhere would somehow be engaged to lead and to have a number of representatives of the non-governmental sector in the field of culture behind us. In fact, this is very broad and powerful, in order to make it easier to sum up and unlock the problems that are here as a specific area, which has a small market, which has little or almost nothing employment lately, in fact, and which needs some accuracy in the light of not only the Slovenian, but also the European space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Jože Jerovšek will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, all present! In the last year, it can be seen that in the Republic of Serbia, in other countries of the Western Balkans, the prosecution of organised crime is quite successful. So far, several criminal groups have been broken up in the area of classical crime and drug trafficking. In these days, we are witnessing some reverberating arrests. When Persecution [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Slovenian police also had to move, although these barons have thus far exemplaryly cooperated with the authorities, the city authorities. [[..]] The law enforcement authorities in these countries are also quite successful in the prosecution of organised crime "white collars". The successful prosecution of these crimes is also supported by legislation on the confiscation of property acquired through fraud and money laundering, which is defended by Slovenian policy at home. It is noted that Slovenia has become an obstacle to more successful cooperation and prosecution of these criminal groups due to the lack of political will in Slovenia to prosecute the crime of "white collars" committed in connection with organised economic crime in the Western Balkan countries. It has been learned from Serbian sources that the Slovenian authorities are hampering the prosecution of those cases where the indications point to important Slovenian individuals whose connections go high in the ruling Slovenian policy and are involved in the laundering of Slovenian money obtained through fraud, corruption, financial and capital frauds through the countries of the Western Balkans and the organised associations there. It also leaked information from Serbian circles that Slovenia, when visiting the Prime Minister of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, expressed in a sophisticated way the desire that Serbia should contact us discreetly in time before pursuing economic crime, money laundering and corruption related to Slovenian citizens. According to acquaintances, the Slovenian authorities want to avoid the embarrassment and damage to it, which would result from the links of Slovenian economic crime with the circles of Slovenian politics and with some centres of political and capital power in Slovenia. It is clear that Slovenian policy is afraid to expose illegal financial and capital operations and connections. Madam Minister, I ask you: Why has Slovenia become an obstacle to the prosecution of organised crime? Who are the Slovenian authorities protecting? What are the consequences for Slovenia's international reputation?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member! Otherwise you also addressed the question to Minister Žbogar [[Am I loud enough? I can't talk anymore out loud. I'm sorry. That's our constant problem.]] . Minister Žbogar is not here today, but I will answer what I have to say about the whole matter, because mainly the matter belongs in my area, not in the field of Minister Žbogar. Your question goes in the direction of Slovenian and Slovenian police cooperation with other authorities throughout the Western Balkans. In view of the fact that you have highlighted certain information that the Slovenian police or other competent authorities should obstruct certain investigations, I would ask you to specify below whether this is a matter of rumours or whether it is a matter of specific verified data. If you have any data or sources on such data, please inform them to the Ministry of the Interior so that we can verify that there are really obstacles to such data because I do not have such data. As far as I know, the police are working very well with their colleagues throughout the Western Balkans and elsewhere in Europe. If you have any other specific information, I strongly recommend it for your knowledge. Otherwise, Slovenia has long experience in such international cooperation. It was precisely because of the knowledge of the area that, at the time of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Europol, as well as the Council of the European Union, was asked to help establish standards in all other countries in the region, i.e. in the transfer of good practices, by sharing its good knowledge with colleagues. And, of course, he's happy to do that. It leads many projects both operational and organisational, and from the already mentioned transfer of good practices to the establishment of the necessary links of operational cooperation and education, training of criminal police in those countries or with us. Cooperation is ongoing and good, and above all it is a transfer of our own experience, because in the Western Balkans as well as in general in the European Union, Slovenian police have always been hailed as extremely professional and good. And if you've been following for a little while in recent months, she's received a lot of praise in her expertise and independence from various international organizations, even from the United States. Of course, it continues its good cooperation in the countries of the region and has bilateral agreements with all the former Yugoslav countries: Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania are agreements on general police cooperation or agreements on specific cooperation in the fight against terrorism, and especially against organised crime. Some very specific areas of operational cooperation for your knowledge: for example, illicit drugs, detection and prevention, we stand on the Balkan path, that is known. Equally trafficking in human beings, illegal migration, terrorism, extreme violence, robbery, murder and other forms of organised crime. Slovenian police are closely involved in the operation of other police in the Western Balkans. The last resounding action, about which there was much talk, was actually directed and directed by the Slovenian police, which was a driving force. There is no indication and reason to believe that Slovenian police would in any way stop the possible activities of colleagues in Serbia or any other Western Balkan country. And once again, if you have such specific information, supported by appropriate evidence, I will be very happy if you give it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With your response, because he was a fraud, of course I can't be satisfied. I believe that Slovenian police are capable, good and professional if they do not interfere with politics. And the information I receive, but this must be a capable Slovenian policy to resolve, but not to shift and have criminal authorities, the police in this cooperation political guidance, guidance, as I highlighted in the basic question. And look, you're asking me if these are rumors. I tell you, and in this case for politics enough that where there is smoke, there is fire. And if that kind of information came to me, then we should get to the Ministry. And it's a hold-up to put your head in the sand, and there are terrible financial consequences at home when Slovenian money runs out and it's gone. And Slovenian politics has no interest, such as that of Serbia, which can confiscate such assets, do nothing for such legislation in our country. And that's why I'm asking for exact answers. I also want you to explain: Which Slovenian powerful with strong connections in other Western Balkan countries defends Slovenian policy against prosecution by the law enforcement authorities of the Republic of Serbia? This information is far too much to cover our eyes. I ask: Is Slovenian policy neutral enough to carry out and order the police to take such action?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u200	No, my fellow Member, even if you are only a politician, your work is not limited to the transmission of rumors. That's just not enough. Policy is also based on facts and evidence. And I expect them, otherwise all that remains is the slander of a state authority that does good, professionally and correctly. I have already stated and explained to you, and once again I explain that the Slovenian police are not protecting anyone. Slovenian police do not prevent cooperation with other police throughout the world and in the Western Balkans. The Slovenian police work on the basis of the standards of legality, expertise, operational independence and policies led by the Ministry under which the police belong do not affect the operational work of the police nor instruct whom to or from whom not to pursue. I've pointed that out a lot. I know that, and I'm saying that. But if you have any more of your rumors, because that's not enough, even if you're a politician, I ask you to forward this to the right address.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Of course, I am not satisfied with the incomplete answer. Unfortunately, I also have to protest, Madam Minister, because you're converting my words. I didn't burden the Slovenian police with not wanting to. However, I have expressed my conviction or that you respond to information that Slovenian policy prevents the police from actively cooperating with the Serbian police and criminal authorities in other countries as well, when they come after economic crime, corruption, money laundering, which is linked to the Slovenian powerful in these countries, and then money is washed and brought back. That's what I was asking you. Because of such a very flawed reversal in response, Madam Minister, it is right to hold a debate, because this is fate-related to the fate of this country. Some of the decadent events that have already taken place in this country are, in some ways, also decadent and dangerous for the country, very dangerous for the country. We know that empires have collapsed when politics has been unable or unwilling to act. Of course, it is the responsibility of Slovenian policy, which we do not know whether it is capable of being taken over and also realized that now, when conditions and in other countries are actually relatively successful in the pursuit of both economic and classical crime, when they confiscate property because they have made such legislation is, Slovenia, so it is said, becoming an obstacle to these "balkan fighters" who are being persecuted within these actions, in fact put where they belong. I ask: Why did the Slovenian authorities not, for example, intervene with the drug barons before? Why have these barons so exemplaryly cooperated with authorities and with some prominent ones in the country? Only now, because of the international power, when there was not enough room for Slovenian politics, did she have to act. But I do know that the police had the data collected, and they were working professionally, and they could have acted substantially earlier. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a thorough debate be held on this issue, given the incomplete answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jerovska, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 June 2010, in the framework of the votes. Now Franc Bogovic will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Mr. Dejan Židan and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u204	Good evening! Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In recent weeks, the taxpayers, as owners of agricultural and forestry land, who have the prescribed income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, have received from the Tax Administration decisions on the deduction of agricultural obligations for 2009. The amounts made up of cadastral income, potential market income for wine production, flat income from bees and the average amount of land subsidies used are extremely high compared to previous years. The average subsidy per hectare of land amounts to € 184, representing a 3.6-fold last year's amount, and €185 per hectare, representing a 1.7-fold last year's amount. The average amount of subsidies shall be attributed to all those liable to any member of the household in 2009 for which taxable payments have been made for agricultural policy measures, namely, for all land in the state of the holding, irrespective of the fact that many of them do not meet the conditions for the imposition of subsidies or have not been applied to them or have not received such payments. We must admit that we are not only amazed, but very disappointed at the government's attitude towards agriculture, which is also evident in the case of excessive tax burdens on farmers for 2009. The consequences are not only reflected in higher income payments but also have an impact on the eligibility of social transfers, which are extremely important for farmers' families and, in the case of a tax base of more than €7,500, even at the mandatory entry into the value added tax system. It is therefore incomprehensible that the taxpayers are taxed for all land under the conditions of the Land Catastrophe, although many of them do not at all meet the conditions for the imposition of subsidies or have not received or received such payments. At the time of the adoption of the Income Act, such a method of taxation of payments for agricultural policy measures was adopted as a temporary solution and Article 154 is therefore recorded for a transitional period. Nor did the proposal for the Income Act proposed by the SLS Group last year receive support, with an excuse to prepare at the Ministry systemic changes or simultaneous amendments to the Income Act and the adoption of a new Cadastrian Income Law, which has not yet been implemented. So I ask you: How do you intend to help a Slovenian farmer whose income position and payability are constantly deteriorating, and with tax policy you are only exacerbating the situation? When do you intend to approach a systematic solution to the issue of basic agricultural and forestry taxation, which means that you prepare a law governing this area and do not consider payments for agricultural policy measures to be income payments, but admit them [[...]] [[End warning sign]] the function of compensatory payments to compensate for income due to the fall in agricultural crop prices when production costs rise? I would also like to ask: What are the chances that for 2009 the average amount will be [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u205	Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'll answer as much as I can answer as the Minister of Agriculture. The first question, which was not the first, is how the agricultural ministry can help a Slovenian farmer who is in a difficult situation at the moment. Also by speeding up the payments of the rest of the subsidies. These days, KOP/SCOP payments of almost €31 million are ending. Secondly, by joining the 2009 promise, this is aid to beef dairy farms under the de minimis rule, which is now being implemented. The first decisions were sent on 10 this month and will be next week. However, this is a 3 million-euro aid. I also understand the new calls for help. He'll be out of calls in a few weeks for 120 million. One is aimed at increasing competitiveness, the other at diversification. And we are increasing the co-financing rate for almost all calls. As for the taxes you're asking about this year. It must be said that this is a temporary solution, which was adopted in a consensus with partners last year and also before. It is also true that more subsidies were paid last year than the year before. It is also true that what you have asked is being held tomorrow at the initiative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber at the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is very interested in the situation of farmers, will of course also be present. As far as change is concerned. It must be said that a change of law is being prepared: identification of cadastral income. In addition to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, as stakeholders, social partners are also involved in this amendment of the law. However, I believe that the law will be adopted this year, but this means that it will only apply for the tax year 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you. Would you like a refill? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u207	First of all, I am interested in this part where we have an eternal dilemma in Slovenia, and last year we all agreed on the OMD payments to be exempt from this taxation. What is the position of the Ministry of Agriculture for Payments for Agricultural Policy Measures, which treats a certain income policy in our country rather than a policy that essentially replaces the lack of income due to these acute conditions in the food production market? In this part, I think that we also have not so much at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but, above all, at the Ministry of Finance, we have strong interlocutors and interlocutors who insist on doing so, because, according to me, the known data differs from many other countries, where these measures are not included in this taxation, we have them. That is why I am also interested in your position in these discussions and in the drafting of legislation for next year: What are the directions in which this legislation is going?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you. We have a very clear view that Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian farmers are in such a difficult situation as they have not been in the last few decades. When you look at the budget balance, you will see that transfers for agriculture are not falling, even on individual items are increasing. The exception is only where it will not be possible to make some funding this year because time is running out. On the other hand, you will notice that there are no important developments in the rebalancing of excise duties on agricultural products. As for the discussions that will take place tomorrow, however, you also have my principled view that there is a need to help a farmer wherever possible and within the possible order in force in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec, I'm asking you because he's Dr. Franc Križanič is absent, or you want to ask him a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Since he was absent for the last time, I'm still going to ask a question today. The Ministry of Finance has drawn up a draft strategy for the development of gambling, which is currently in public debate. This topic is of great importance as the gambling activity brings an important share of Slovenian gross social product and represents an important part of tourism, pays a lot of taxes in the state and municipal budgets. It has a lot of jobs tied up in casino companies and even more in their cooperatives. In some cases, however, it contributes to strengthening sports and recreational, cultural, educational and other social activities at local and national level with its donations and sponsors. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Strategy Preparation has taken a problematic step because it has not included an important part of the professional public in a timely manner or some key actors involved too late and did not take account of their important comments. The result is a strategy which, according to some estimates, is not based on a very solid foundation that allows for the low-cost privatisation of state assets, almost takunisation of an important segment of gambling, which could lead to the loss of a significant number of jobs in this activity and push the entire mountainous region to the brink of crisis or probably also push it over this edge. After all, the Ministry reduced the time limit for public debate from the two months envisaged to only one month. I therefore ask the Minister the following questions: Why did the Ministry not take into account the well-founded proposals that came from HIT, which is the largest actor, employer and very well-known area in this area? I also ask the Minister about Mr Dragan Isajlović's co-worker, who was in charge of the field of gambling at the time of his office. In an interview with one of the central journals, he said that he also held discussions on this field of gambling. What relevant competences and experience did Mr Isajlović have in his professional career, which was adequately equipped to regulate gambling matters? Who was he meeting and having discussions on the subject of gambling? I also ask the Minister: Why did the Ministry reduce the time of public debate from two months to one month? This period of public debate also fell at the time of the first May holidays. I ask: Why is he in such a hurry to discuss or to miss something crucial if we are to have a comprehensive and qualitative debate? I am also taking the initiative of the Minister to allow an authentic open public debate to be held, which will allow the proposed document to be critically defined by the entire professional public and all relevant actors and to send the drafters of the strategy back at the desk to write a new strategy if they are not able to respond satisfactorily to the numerous critical comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you. I'd like to ask you, would you like the Minister to answer orally at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u213	I want an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u214	Okay. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roko Žarnić, who is not currently in the Chamber. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I hope the minister's already here in the hall. [[...]] In view of the fact that today the President of the Government has made it very clear that the highway construction programme, including the one that was subsequently adopted, is being completed, is practically completed, but it must be said that this is not true, since the state spatial plan for the freeway section from the Drazens to the border crossing of Gruškovje is waiting for confirmation in the Government, as far as I am aware. It was a long-term coordination for this last part of the highway. I am convinced that it is indeed as follows from the whole of the correspondence led by the Ministry of the Environment and Space towards the municipalities that participated in the procedures for the establishment of the State Spatial Plan for this motorway section. It is the municipalities of Ptuj, Videm, Podohnik and Žetale. Many comments were made, and I hope that the profession at the Ministry of Environment and Space has made efforts to reach the widest possible consensus and consensus when it took into account all the comments made by interested people on the road from Drazenci to Gruškov during the public disclosure phase. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister: When will the State Spatial Plan for this part of the highway section in the Government be adopted and approved? Are all proposals, comments arising from the public examination phase of the State Spatial Plan, to the greatest extent possible taken into account?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u217	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I must first thank you for asking me this question now that I have a nice answer. I must say that in July 2010, it is said in a good month, we anticipate that this VAT will be ready for adoption in the government, because coordination with the opinion-makers is in the final stage. The proposals of the municipalities were taken into account as far as possible, namely the proposals of the Municipality of Ptuj could not be taken into account only where it did not interfere with the area and taken into account in the work where the Municipality of Ptuj requested the inclusion of a parallel road in the DN. All of this has been taken into account. Hajdina, it's fully taken into account. The municipality gave a special opinion on the DN proposal, Videm, to the extent possible taken into account, the municipality gave its consent. The municipality of Podlodhnnik was largely taken into account, except for the crossing of Podlodhnnik-Gorca, because the DN solution is more appropriate from the point of view of bus stop arrangements and the reduction of interventions to the protected section of Rogatnica, it was better resolved in this original. Overcoming the New Church, the solution in the DN is technically more appropriate than the one proposed by the municipality. Overpass Stanošina, the solution to the DPN is more appropriate in terms of traffic safety than the one proposed by the municipality. The Podlohnnik resting area, the requirements of the municipality of Podlohnnik, have been fully respected and the resort Podlohnnik was postponed from the village of Dežno by 50 meters south. The reasons for non-compliance with the requirements were further clarified by the ILO DPN to the municipality of Podlodhnnik in a letter dated 30. 3. 2010 In a positive opinion, subject to the uncoordinated points of the municipality of Podlozhnik of 28. 5. New requirements of the municipality are also recorded: change in the name of the connection, arrangement of the roof at bus stations, passage for livestock on parallel road, formation of anti-group fences, increase of dimensions and approach for livestock. This is currently under study, and I think it's final. As far as possible, the proposals of the Municipality of Žetale have been taken into account, the reasons for non-compliance have been clarified by the ILO in more detail in its observations and in its letter of 25 May this year to the Municipality of Žetale in response to their negative opinion on the proposal of the State Spatial Plan. Uncoordinated points of the Municipality of Žetale are: the installation of the new motorway connection of Zakelj near the Municipality of Žetale is not commercially justified after the construction of two connections on this part and the connection of the regional road R3689 to the parallel road by highway location, as this would affect the area of Natura 2000. These are now details of this, and as I said at the outset, I hope we can wrap this up before the holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u218	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much for that answer, Secretary of State. However, I would like some further clarifications from my question, particularly on the content of a letter from the Ministry of Environment and Space 30. 3rd address to the municipality of Podlohnik. Why am I exposing the Podohnik Congregation? Because of the practical placement of the highway into the space, it actually divided this small congregation of Halo into two parts. It is also the longest section of the motorway crossing the municipality of Podlodhnik. Therefore, it is also the highest number of comments to be observed by the citizens of the municipality of Podlodhnnik. What is concerned, however, must be clarified that, as you yourself have summarized from this letter, your colleagues have addressed and have also in some way ensured that the State Spatial Plan in the Government will be dealt with and adopted. Predicted in June 2010 I was therefore almost certain that today I would receive an answer on my hand that the material was already being provided for the next government meeting, which will then and then. Of course, on behalf of all the people in those municipalities, through which this road is going to really go in June, as it was written down, as you yourself said, the state spatial plan at the government meeting in June was also adopted and confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u221	I'm sorry. I may have misspoke. It says here in July. I'm sorry. There's obviously still a need for final coordination. And what you just mentioned. Apparently, the final alignment is still under way, and therefore a few days more, and if the matter is settled in satisfaction, it is worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr Marijan Križman will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Lukšić, who is absent. You're still going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Ambassador and Members of Parliament! I would like to ask a question and also expect an oral answer at the next meeting. After the war on Slovenia, a number of guards remained throughout our country, with whom, unfortunately, no one managed them, but they failed and the tooth of time destroyed their principles and, in some cases, destroyed them. They moved from the Ministry to the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of the Interior. They're at the Ministry of Education and Sport today. The Watchtower, whose status I am interested in, and the possibilities for maintaining and maintaining it better, is in Ospa. This is the village of Koper on the border with Italy. The locals who have been living there have been trying for some time, without success, to manage this sentinel to have this sentinel for their cultural interests, for the needs of other associations they have in the village for several years, among other things, a very successful drama group. After all these years, I think it has been 19 years, it would have been a time for this issue to be settled and that these objects, which they once built with our money -- these aren't JLA objects, they just benefited -- they get those that they want and they would use and manage. I therefore ask Minister Luksic: Is there any possibility that an object in Ospo could be transferred to the property and property of the Local Community of Black Kal for the needs I have indicated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u226	Thank you. The Minister will respond to the next meeting. Mr Silven Majhenić will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! The waste dump in Dogoš has long been the topic of the inhabitants of Dogoš, as well as the inhabitants of the neighbouring municipality of Miklavž in Dravské Polje, since this landfill in addition to the crematorium, the cleaning plant and the train station enraged the lives of the inhabitants living in this environment, devalued their assets and offered them everything they had previously offered instead of a healthy life. Recently, however, citizens have been warned by city councilors in Maribor that contaminated land from Cinkarna Celje is being planted in this landfill. In the imported land, cadmium content is expected to exceed the permitted value three times and lead is expected to be even four times too high, with meteor water being washed into the groundwater. According to the councilors of the municipality of Maribor, there were two different parties who said that it was thousands of cubic metres of this land and that the profession, as recorded in the Journal of 21 May 2010, could not declare what harmful contents were involved, it would be appropriate that all doubts about irregularities be rejected or confirmed by analysis, since, after all, the citizens living in this area deserve an expert explanation as to their health and the health of their children. Since the matter has been well known to the Ministry for a long time, I would like to know: What have you done in this direction to this day? The report of the Environment and Space Inspection, which published the analysis of the land from Dogoš on 29 May, did not convince the inhabitants, since the conclusions are not definitive.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u229	Dear President, honourable Member! I know this case, and I am also aware of the analyses that people know and know. This is a relatively difficult data and also a very large problem. The process of analysis, identification is still ongoing and will be made public in a short time and the public will also be informed of the final results of this analysis. I have to say, I don't want to brag too much right now, but that our inspection in this case has reacted very quickly, which you probably know. However, it is generally the case with these inspections that regular inspections of waste landfills are carried out in more sensitive categories at regular intervals at least once a year. In the case of applications like this, and more than once. The supervision of the performance of the public service is also the task of the inspectorate, but it is true that sometimes a limited number of inspectors do not go together. I've been tracking, I think somewhere in the paper today, that someone has calculated that the inspectors are half their time on the ground, as much as possible. We need to be aware that the Inspector's work is not just field work, then we need to report, we need to process the data, and I'm with those who aren't happy in the newspapers, in one way or another, because it shows that they're on the ground. But communication, between you, Members, between the field and us, is extremely useful, because this way we can achieve what we both want most easily. Somehow these actions, which we do not approve of, and not you, are easier to track and act on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u230	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. According to the data I received, it is 433 tons of land that makes life worse for the inhabitants, who are claimed by the Ministry of Environment and Space to have the matter under control. It is difficult to understand that after a good year they have not yet completely ruled out the potential danger. The integrity of this land was also questioned in the municipality of Miklavž, for the concern is certainly great, as the landfill is located in the immediate vicinity of the water protection area, which depends on the whole region with drinking water, including Maribor. It is therefore incomprehensible that the matter has been going on for so long. The analyses that have been carried out do not show convincing results that the soil is not harmful and does not contain dangerous substances for human health, especially because we know that the water protection area is in the immediate vicinity but leaves people in doubt. That's why I'm asking: Why are there no concrete results and measures immediately? This is located in the water protection area, and this water is consumed by 200,000 people. And I don't know why it didn't immediately determine whether we were contaminating it or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Immediate action also means a certain time. Ten, fifteen days is of this and if you take the appropriate number of samples, appropriate sampling in as large a quantity as you said, appropriate analysis, processing of this, comparison and then some fair report that we can stand behind. That is why we need time to make this technical. And I'm going to ask myself tomorrow how far it is, but I'm sorry I can't give you very precise data, because from your question I got, it wasn't clear which details you were interested in. I apologize for not being able to answer enough of you, but we can answer you in writing or in some other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u234	Do you have a procedural proposal, sir? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, you haven't convinced me, I'm sorry. I believe that even those people who have watched us now, because playing with human health is a little too much. This isn't about yesterday, I think it's been a year. Therefore, I will not apply Rule 264 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph two, and will not propose a debate in the National Assembly, because the coalition rejects all our proposals. This is a very serious matter, and I will therefore make a written request for clarification concerning the inhabitants living in the Dogoša landfill area. In the final stage, it is about human health, so we need to be very clear here: either confirm doubts or reject them. According to citizens' statements - whether it is true or not, I do not know - a pit to the groundwater was dug, which was later poured with contaminated land and some other things that you may later find out what it is. If all of this is true, the population that depends on the drinking water of the pumps that are near this landfill is in real danger to their own health. We need to act here now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u236	Well, that wasn't exactly a procedural proposal. As I understand it, you will address your request to the Minister in writing. Mr Darko Meni will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. Dearly beloved, welcome to all! Lakes were created in Salek Valley as a result of mining. In the municipality of Šostjanj, the Soržmir Lake was formed, which overwhelmed us with many good soils for building. The lake will increase in the future by three times the current surface. Due to the construction of block 6, the municipality has to provide housing capacity for the installation of a thousand five hundred workers who will be building thermal power plants in Šostanje by 2014. In our search for the site so far, we have been paying particular attention to the fact that the installation of workers would not exacerbate the living conditions of the current citizens, in order to avoid traffic congestion, in order to provide workers with a comfortable and dignified four-year stay in Šostjanje and, in particular, to ensure that buildings, roads and all infrastructure are also useful after building block 6. As one of the rare locations that meets these criteria, the area of the Soržmir Lake has been offered. To this end, the first ideal design of a water town was developed following the example of Dutch water architecture, which would be a solar power plant in addition to the accommodation facilities for workers, the first phase and the following tourist recreational and scientific functions. The practice of water construction has already been well received abroad. In the United States, Canada and a very strong European country in the Netherlands, such facilities have already been established as a new form of residence. Many other places across Europe, including in neighbouring Austria, can be found on water bodies objects that are not intended directly to stay, but other activities, such as the island on the river. But they go beyond the definition of permitted objects of our water law. I ask the Minister: When can we expect this legislation to be updated in Slovenia, since our water legislation does not allow this type of construction for the time being? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u239	Mr President, honourable Member. Thank you very much for this question, which I understand more than an initiative to start on some new modernisations and to follow modern intervention into space. I must say, unfortunately, we have not dealt with these changes so far. However, on today's issue, I will also begin to take a personal interest in these matters. However, I must also say that this year, people working on these problems are quite burdened by the transposition of European directives into the national legal order and by the rules that still need to be regulated in accordance with the Water Act. However, as I said before, we will soon consider this and then, in some written form, answer what we are going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u240	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your answer. I would like to remind the Minister that there have recently been government representatives at the Termoelectric power plant of Šostjanj. There, too, Mr. Minister could see with his own eyes where this city was supposed to stand. And I think he just agreed to it, but the legislation doesn't allow it. But I would still ask in the end. I want to know: When and to whom could our project be presented at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and what solution can we expect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u242	Thank you. Would you like a minister, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u243	Thank you very much. You can send one brief written initiative and then we will gather the team and find a suitable date to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Milenko Ziherl, I ask you whether, despite Minister Križanič's absence, you will ask him a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u245	I will certainly ask the question and expect the answer to the next or at one of the following meetings. That's supposed to be the question. What will be Slovenia's role and how will it work and what can be expected from the euro area resolution company? It's a society that's being established. We all know of the crisis in the euro area, which people will feel sooner than later in all the countries of the euro area. Certainly these are the losses of savings from savers. First, the savers calculate how much they received in January for their savings and how much today. Although they may still be able to buy within the euro area in the same way as before the crisis, it will soon be known for its connection to the global economy, i.e. to the dollar and to the Chinese currency, so that the savers will lose in the long term. The next thing is, of course, even as taxpayers, they will have to contribute the two and several billion euros as much as Slovenia has committed itself to contributing to the euro resolution fund. I have no objection to the euro being saved. The current situation may be beneficial for some things, and I'll talk about it later. Thus, it is certainly necessary to look at the irresponsible behaviour of some Member States, such as Greece, in Spain, which can be read in the newspaper in order to need 700 billion euros of such an injection and so on. It is certainly not possible to ignore the fact that, in fact, the people of these countries have lived in a relaxed, irresponsible way and that we will now pay for their drinking and the easy way of life for all the member states of the euro area. In this story, there can also be a positive side, as the loss of almost 20% of the value of the euro against world currencies is certainly a good export incentive. And if today the Prime Minister praised the favourable export movements at the beginning of the meeting, this is not the result of the Government's blinking with a finger, it is not the result of its failure to do anything, but mainly because of the fall in the euro rate and thus increased export competitiveness. The upcoming recession will certainly take the form of an ipsilon crisis in Slovenia, and all of this will have an impact on the more difficult resolution of the euro. So, I expect an answer to the question at one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič will now ask Mrs Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u247	Hello, Minister! I'm glad you're here because I was already a little sad because I thought you'd be gone today. The call from the Ministry of Public Administration for office materials was stopped and interrupted due to suspicion of cartel arrangements between the providers, the State Publications of Slovenia, the Youth Books and Extra Lux, Ljubljana. This is based on a document submitted by the Ministry of Public Administration. In recent days, however, it has been heard from confidential sources that an annex should be signed with all the above-mentioned tenderers, and this annex should be linked to an old contract which has already expired. Under this contract, which has already expired, prices are significantly higher than those offered and the invitation to tender suspended and terminated. The problem of public administration by ordering office materials for budgetary consumers in the country is, of course, understandable. However, there can be no comprehensible action or intention to sign an annex with substantially higher prices, which were the subject of an old contract two years ago. Secondly, it is also an incomprehensible fact that an annex is signed with tenderers who are under investigation for suspected cartel bargaining and suspected corruption. It is also sad that the above-mentioned bidders are already publicly bragging about how stupid the country is, how they will now be able to sell at high prices for some time. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you the following questions: Did it really happen? What happened to the above-mentioned invitation to tender for suspected cartel arrangements? What is the Ministry's position on that call for savings in the light of taxpayers' money? At the same time, I'm curious: What will you do to prevent such things from happening in the future? Are you planning to sign an annex to a contract that has already expired to purchase office material for the purposes of the national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and public administration with those tenderers?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u248	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Keep some information in your statements. It is precisely due to the concern that the Ministry of Public Administration, which, under the authority of 145 national users, has prepared an invitation to tender for the conclusion of a cover agreement for the purchase of office supplies of an indicative value of EUR 8 million, has received only one tenderer or consortium of company providers listed in this procedure. It is known to all that it is for tenderers who are present on the Slovenian market to a significant extent. We have very carefully reviewed prices, compared them and in some cases found that these prices are even unreasonablely higher than they are quoted on the market. For my responsibility to the budgetary users, I have invited the Competition Protection Office to assist us in reviewing this dossier. And 21. 4. In 2010, after reviewing this documentation, the Office informed us that there was a suspicion of the concerted operation of these economic operators, and in the same period we received a notice from the Commission to prevent corruption that they had filed complaints and that proceedings were under way. The procedure was already in the stage of conclusion, but the existing law allowed, the Public Procurement Act, that I did not sign the contract and we decided to go to a new tender where we will try to improve the offer conditions in order to determine the individual items for which we will look for the best possible bidders. In this case, we hope that things will be better. It is also true that the 2007 contract is under the mandate of the previous government - the same three have applied and to date there have been consortia for suppliers to state users. We have not signed an annex to this Treaty, but we have called for this interim period when we prepare a new call for negotiations for price reductions and the conclusion of an annex. All the parties to the 2007 umbrella contract have launched a review of our call with the State Audit Commission because they want to force the Ministry of Public Administration to conclude a contract for which I can honestly tell you that with all my personal responsibility and responsibility for public funds and with all the remedies, I hope that it will not be concluded, and I hope that we will have a fair and competitive fight between the providers of these services at the time of the new call. This is what we hope, for the purpose of concluding these framework agreements is that due to the large amount of office material, envelopes, writings and other materials we get lower prices than the budgetary user himself can obtain when searching in his narrow area of this offer. Only in this sense is the meaning of these umbrella agreements. This performance was essentially problematic, and when we went to check prices, we also found out. So that no annex has been concluded, this interest of this annex, but not at existing prices, at negotiated lower prices, is the object, as I have said, of the same tenderers who were signatories to the 2007 umbrella contract for the country for a similar volume of budgetary users.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. In some part of your answer, I am satisfied, I must say, but at this time I also had some additional questions. At first, you made it very clear that the annex was not signed. The prices applicable under the old contract for this period during the new tender period should not be valid; therefore, you do not agree that these tenderers will continue to supply material at prices signed under the old contract. That's what you said. And you're trying to negotiate with them now, but they don't want to negotiate, like you said, and they're going to try everything to stop it. From this alone, it is possible to establish that these are agreements, cartel arrangements, and in a way that they try to keep their position and price on the market with a monopoly. And that is what is probably the most critical and what we have recently seen in all areas of work and life in our country. Here I also see a particular problem, precisely because of Mr Petan, which I think is also the owner of the State Publishing Slovenia, if I am not mistaken. As far as I know, what really bothers me, and that's what bothered me, too, is that he is Mr Golobic's great personal friend. It almost seems unreasonable to me that you have such an interesting situation: on the one hand you have a minister, your friend within the government, on the other hand you have someone who is his great friend. And then everyone can think of a lot of things. I don't want to be the one to think about the worst, but I do have the feeling that without strong political bots, there is a big question if such individuals could be so powerful that they could practically achieve what they want to achieve on all the calls.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u252	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Whether or not this is a cartel arrangement will be identified by the Competition Protection Office. I'm sure you'll be aware of that. We suspected he was going. Your thesis, taking into account the fact that an agreement with the same three tenderers who have applied as a consortium has been signed by my predecessor, Minister Virant, who is a member of the SDS party or cannot deny his membership - a member or Chairman of the Committee on Administration and Internal Policy, the Committee of the Party, is Mr Gregor Virant - that he is a personal friend of Mr Petan, Director of the Slovenian State Publications. For if you have made this connection, Mr Virant, this thought which I have made at the offer of the same three is not made. I have been very careful here because in the field of public procurement we have opened up issues that have not been raised so far, because we are not only committed as ministers to the functions where we are, but also forced by the financial crisis, where we absolutely have to do an increased amount of work with less resources. Who is the director of one of these companies, personally, I am not interested in deciding not to conclude a contract, to go to a new call for a healthy competition, nor will I be interested in the future. Because when we go looking for the most favourable offers on behalf of the Ministry of Power - as I said before - 145 national users are going to look for the most favourable offers, all eyes are fixed on us with the desire that through these negotiations, this process will achieve more favourable prices due to quantity purchases than they can achieve when they individually enter into this relationship. That's why I feel like I have to perform so much more carefully on behalf of everyone in these processes. In the field of public procurement, as you are aware, we have also joined the action, and last but not least now the law of the Public Procurement Agency, where we want to use catalogue sales, will actually reduce the necessary costs for [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] the purchase of office supplies we need at work. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u254	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I propose a broader debate on this issue. And I'll explain why. Madam Minister, you've said a lot of important things. But the fact is, what I've said has disturbed me, and it always bothers me in these matters, that there's always a political godfather in the background. You also spoke about the fact that Mr Virant also signed this treaty in the previous term and so on. I don't care at the moment. I'm interested in solutions. And we're talking about how we're going to solve this problem in the future so that we don't exploit and spend the money that citizens and citizens create. I am sure that we are both here in this position that we must do everything in our own way to ensure that the money coming into the state budget is spent most economically. And as we can see, in such cartel arrangements, it is precisely the exploitation and abuse of state money, that is, taxpayers' money. And that's what has to be prevented. I am confident that, in the event that these companies prove themselves to have acted in a cartel manner, they will then be assured that they will not be able to run at the invitation you are preparing. At the same time, I am also sure that you will prepare this call as soon as possible, because I think it is very important that this issue and this topic - therefore, this time period between the invitation to tender and the old invitation to tender - should not be extended until the end of this mandate. Because that would tell me a lot, and it would tell politicians a lot about why this is happening in this way. I therefore expect that this new call will be ready as soon as possible. As you often like to say, and because I always listen very carefully to you when I am here in the hall, there is much to be done in order to save as much money as possible, and in the public administration it is possible to do so. We know that there are extremely large reserves in the public administration, but they need to be found in the right way, and in these procurements I am sure they are huge reserves. If we are able to break the cartel deal and put competition in the right place, including those small ones that can contribute their share in individual areas and can only be providers of what they can offer, because it is not necessary that only one should take all of these items, which are used by the State Administration. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And if we are able to expose this competition, then I am sure that there will be at least 30% lower costs in this area only when it comes to public procurement in public administration. [[...]] And that's a lot of money, and it's very important for us to be able to redirect that money. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u256	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Pojbic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Public Administration to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on 15 June, in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers. In 1999, Slovenia introduced a so-called state pension and thereby raised the civilisation level to a certain level. Let me remind you that this happened on the initiative of our party, the Slovenian People's Party. Thus, article 59 of the then adopted Law on Disability and Pension Insurance states: "A person with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia who does not have the right to a pension under this law under the foreign public pension system or under other regulations whose own income does not exceed the property price for obtaining the right to a security allowance under this Act shall be entitled to a state pension if he has reached the age of 65 and has lived in the Republic of Slovenia for at least 30 years between the age of 15 and 65. Second. The national pension referred to in the preceding paragraph amounts to 33.3% of the lowest pension base." The proposal for a new pension law now abolishes the state pension and replaces it with social assistance at the request of the current beneficiary, by checking the property status, including on the basis of real estate. The beneficiary will have to apply for it and satisfy a number of bureaucratic rules. Now, after 10 years is this, for the first time - a step back in our efforts to become a more civilized society. Secondly, contrary to the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution, which guarantees respect for human dignity in official procedures, so far the right has been transformed into an eventual entitlement to social assistance, for which it is necessary to ask again and again. And thirdly, it is wasteful, because, as far as we know, the costs of verifying the property situation will certainly not be modest. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What's the reason you're turning state pension into social assistance? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! When it comes to a state pension, as it was signed in 1999, we must say that even in this case it cannot be argued that it is either a work right or a pension benefit right, but it is an additional social right, a social adjustment. As it is known, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is working within this mandate to properly regulate and separate the rights which are sown in many laws and have a common denominator, namely those that constitute social corrections and are paid for by the State. Therefore, it was not about contributions which then allow for adequate payment entitlements. Thus, in order to ensure a more transparent pension system from pension and disability insurance, all transfers or social benefits provided to state budget beneficiaries, which are not based on contributions paid, have been eliminated, but are linked to the social situation of an individual or family. Therefore, according to the rules in force, only a person who submits an application for it and who fulfils the conditions laid down is not a pension recipient who is over 65 years of age, who has stayed in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for at least 30 years and, most importantly, his own income does not exceed a certain amount of property censorship. I repeat this and stress this because it follows that this is a right linked to the social situation of the person, not to the payment of contributions. With new laws, the current beneficiaries of the state pension will be as many socially vulnerable categories of the population who, with their own income and family incomes, are unable to provide adequate social security, receiving social security benefits, which will exceed all the current social adjusters. Since the state pension in existing legislation amounts to only 181.36 euros and is significantly lower than the monetary social assistance price, all recipients of a state pension who, together with family members, do not have sufficient means of survival, are entitled to additional financial social assistance. It's today's condition. Due to the rationality and reasonable placement of this right in the relevant system, the right will only be transferred to another law where it will be paid in one place. To those who need it, therefore, we do not abolish this right. In addition, if I sum up; who does not have other sources of income, his income will increase from €181.36 to €450, which means, for those who really depend solely on this assistance, a substantial improvement in the socio-economic situation. But it is true that anyone who lives with someone who has high incomes or possessions will no longer be entitled to this right. Let me add that there will be no procedure for bureaucratic rules, because this will be found administratively, on the basis of law, and also that it will not be necessary to ask again because these rights will be allocated more than not permanently, except when it comes to changing the socio-economic situation of individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u260	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'll be brief, considering it's already late. I'll be brief in addition. So I must say that I agree with you that the state pension is not based on the contributions paid. This was certainly and precisely for this purpose, or for such categories of people, that was also introduced at the time of the good ten years ago, but I believe that the main feature of the State pension, as stated in the Constitution, is respect for the human personality and its dignity, Article 21 of the Constitution, I think it speaks as saying that it is civil rights and not social assistance. Of course, I agree that, from a sociological point of view, it is significantly better for someone to have a pension, which is called a state pension in this case, and in the event that it is found that, even with this pension, he does not reach some social level, that he or she is then entitled to social assistance. Therefore, this pension is financed directly from the state budget, does not burden the pension fund and, according to our assessment, we should aim to keep it. So, I will not propose any further discussion, because the debate on this will be extended to the relevant legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u263	If I may just comment on what the Member of Parliament has said. So I understand that this may be a matter of naming and it is always possible to talk about it, but I think it is essential for individuals who are our common concern that, if they are actually dependent only on the resources allocated to them by the State, this revenue will increase substantially. So, more than 100%, for 150% round, if of course these are beneficiaries who don't have any other resources. At the same time, it is also about eliminating some kind of anomaly, to which many Members point out that they receive certain social transfers from people, individuals whose partners or members of the household have quite a lot of property. I do not think that this is justified in terms of the provision of social assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will now raise the question of the question to the Minister of Culture, Majdi Širca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u265	Have a nice hello again. I ask the distinguished Minister of Culture, Mrs Majdo Shirca: Is it true that, on the one hand, RTV Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture have violated the Media Act regarding the reporting of the responsible editor? RTV Slovenia has four responsible editors for electronic media in Slovenia 1 – Janez Virk, Rajko Gerič, Peter Radović and Milan Jovanovic. The Media Act in the second indent of Article 12 provides that only the responsible editor and not the responsible editors shall be included in the media examination. In fact, we have come up with this issue regarding my first question, which referred to the question of liability at the initiative of a civil initiative that dealt with, in our opinion, the blocking of information of a public nature. We were in a dilemma about whom to turn, and we found four names in the screen. However, I think it must also be legally and also generally that there is always one responsible person who can also be referred to by the affected parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u266	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u267	Dear Member. You solved the problem below, because if I go back to our previous question, you turned to Rajko Gerič, that is to say, the editor of the information program, which of course did not please you, but the agreed editor is one of the four that the law allows. The Media Act in Article 18 which you cited and by which you searched, in fact, refers to the fact that each media must have its responsible editor, who discharges it and appoints the issuer in accordance with this Act and his basic legal act, that is to say, a founding act. But this same article below, if we are talking about paragraph 1 first, and paragraph 4 below states that if the media has more responsible editors, each of them is responsible for publishing information and so on and so on. In short, he is responsible for publishing information in those sets of programming content for which he is responsible. However, it is normal for such a large body, such as, or some other, to have more responsible editors, because the content components are not only genreic but always divided into information, entertainment or other programs not only in electronic but also in printed media. In RTV Slovenia we have for truly cultural and artistic programme editor Jani Virk, information program - Rajko Gerič, Peter Radović for entertainment program and Milan Jovanovic for sports program. In the past, that was more or less the case, but our problem is whether or not this law allows it. Article 18, referred first to the responsible editor in the unit, shall, of course, be referred to the responsible editors if different programmes are concerned. Thus, it would not make sense for the law to restrict it, the media itself has to structure itself, in what way it takes over and divides the role of responsible editors, but it is logical that some smaller media will be concentrated on less responsible editors and larger media will become more, as is usually the case, which is normal and likely to remain so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u268	Thank you. Would you like a refill? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Mag. Majda Trtt, however, will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question, which is absent. You're still going to set it up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will ask Dr Igor Luksic a question to the absent Minister for Education and Sport, and I expect him to answer it at the next meeting in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure. I want to ask you that. While the rules are not part of the ordinary legislative procedure in the National Assembly, they are accepted by the Ministry alone, but have in recent times significantly disturbed the school space of the two Regulations: the Rules on Standards and Norms, which are under discussion, and the Rules amending the Regulations on the Management of Teaching Funds. I intend to ask the Minister of Education and Sport about the latter, although I have touched on the issues of textbooks and work volumes for the last time, but in another context. On 17 May 2002, a Regulation on the management of textbook funds was adopted, which was completed by a 5-year-old rule. In July 2007, this Regulation was amended in only one article and the Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulations on the Management of School Funds was now published in the Official Journal of 7 May. It is precisely this rule that it is good to shed light on the public’s advertising of what all stakeholders who have something to do with textbooks: teachers, parents, professions, and publishers. I think it is a bit vague or not accurate enough to read Article 6 of this Regulation, which refers to Article 10 of the basic text. This is about the fact that the selection of textbooks is still within the competence of teachers, it is called professional assets, the selection is confirmed by the true director, and giving written consent to the world of parents for the total purchase price of work volumes. And here I think it's a fundamental problem, because saints of parents give consent only to the cost of the textbook set, but they're not the ones who choose textbooks or work volumes. Therefore, the choice remains in the hands of those who know the most about the textbooks and work with them. Of course, it is also embarrassing to limit the acquisition of textbooks and I expect the Minister to explain some open questions in this regard at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u270	Thank you. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! We have already had correspondence in one oral question and several written questions about how the additional work of the judges is and how it is regulated. We have seen a great deal of information in the media about how judges do additional work in one way or another in such or in other educational institutions, and sometimes in some institutions with a more educational name, they also deal with counselling or something else. At that time you somehow replied to me that this is actually within the competence of the Presidents of the Courts and that the Presidents of the Courts provide you with - that was your answer - that they maintain a strict record of this. In fact, Article 41 of the Judicial Service Act makes it very clear that a judge must not engage in legal, notary or economic or other gainful activities. The problem that I see in this myself - I wish, Minister, to avoid the third part of the question, let me just tell you what I have announced in writing - is the problem that I see in the whole thing, but what is it? In view of the fact that, at the level of the country, neither the judicial branch of power as a whole nor you, at least on the basis of the replies so far, simply do not have, as you wish, any review of this, some general review of this, some general control over this if you wish. We're all bleeding under the skin, the judges are probably no exception, so it's only right that we have that kind of control. So my very specific question is: Has anything changed since your reply that the Presidents of the Courts exercise this control and that they assure you that everything is all right? The question of the standstill of a judicial mandate - we also know what it is to be decided by the Council of Justice. However, the specific question is as follows: Are you prepared to amend and supplement Article 41 of the Law on Judicial Service? We can also write it in the parliamentary group, of course I would like to know whether you would receive such a law of your support, in which section 41 of the Judicial Service Act would be amended and supplemented by a central record in this area, at the level of the State, the Supreme Court or the Ministry, and the central supervision in this area. And, of course, the extra one to provide for sanctions. In fact, if today's judicial branch of power and you find out that someone broke the law, you can't really hurt him. So, are you prepared to support such changes in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This initiative, which I am hearing for the first time today, is interesting and we are certainly prepared to examine and consider it carefully, especially because we will be preparing certain amendments to the Judicial Service Act at the Ministry of Justice. These are necessary for certain reasons, including the implementation of judicial reform. We intend to follow up on this issue that you are raising below. While I must point out that the burden of responsibility, even when it comes to records, lies, of course, primarily on the judiciary itself, because, as you have rightly stated, it is the Presidents of the courts who are first called to check the compatibility or incompatibility of a particular operation. Furthermore, the Council of Justice is in a situation where the President of the Court considers that a judge is unable to take some part because the President of the Court considers that it is incompatible with the judicial service. In this part, it is also true that judges are also involved in other activities that are compatible with the judiciary, in particular in the field of education. Here I see two major areas where it is right that the judges are involved. One is related to the legal examination and the other relates to the participation of judges in education under the programmes provided by the Centre for Education in Justice. In this part we also have a review, because it is known for every year in advance what the content of the programme and who will be the bearers of individual topics. It also sets out all the restrictions that are connected in this regard. That's how there is an examination. Beyond this framework, however, it is held that there is no central review and that it relates only to a single court where this review, of course, is carried out by the President of the Court. If I finish. As I consider this to be a question of your delegation in the direction of, in fact, a legislative initiative, if I have understood you correctly, I think that such an initiative is meaningful, but of course it will also have to be examined from a comparative point of view, because I am interested in how some other countries have arranged it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u274	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u275	Yes, thank you very much. It's good to continue constructively. I understand that this could therefore be supported, and I thank you in this context. I'm also going to write an initiative like this on this subject and send it to you. Maybe, you know, because it bothered me - something - it just bothered me that in the law exam, where you have a record, but the media reported, now I won't have a name, because I wouldn't want to be unfair to anyone until things were checked, the media are telling you clearly, and people are telling you today, what I know, I was at his private firm the day before, and the next day my interrogator was at your education centre at the law exam. They are, in my opinion, above the law. However, I would like to point out that I did not take a particular step to verify that I could also serve you with some names. I think it is appropriate that you take such an initiative and that the situation in this area is settled. And maybe even when you said you had records at the education center. Minister, let me check again, I know that you have reduced tariffs in your mandate, but these tariffs still go beyond university professors, those regular university professors in some parts. It'd be good to have a little more look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? No, no, no. Mr Franz Bogovic will now ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u277	Good evening again, Madam Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleague, colleague. The question relates to the move of the agricultural ministry, because, as we know, the agricultural ministry of the Republic of Slovenia has been moving a few metres further into the Vienna building of Sloveniales, a building whose owner or company has also appeared in the media in some connection with some criminal associations or with the redemption of claims by criminal associations of this company. The reasons for the move were largely financial, since it was supposed to be a tenant in the Refugee Court, then not to be prepared to reduce the rent or even to increase it. The government is expected to save around €800,000 a year by moving the ministry and the authorities together into the older one, and as far as I know, a rather inappropriate building. However, it appears that the situation in the real estate market has changed significantly over the past six months, as the rent at the former premises of the Ministry of Agriculture is now low enough for the second government resort. In the former free agricultural ministry, the Slovenian Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy has moved along with its professional services, which have so far been in three different locations in Ljubljana. I want to know: How do you comment on the rather unusual fact that the local government office is now sitting in the premises from which the agricultural ministry has moved out of the high costs? Do you have any information if Minister Gjerkesh has been able to reduce rents for the Vienna premises, or is it simply a degradation of the agricultural base in relation to the government service? I also want to know: How do you assess working conditions in the premises where the agricultural ministry is now located? However, given that we hear much from the visitors and also from the employees, we believe that, based on the covert and unfavourable over the inadequacy and depreciation of the new premises. In view of the situation of Sloveniales, the question of: How long-term and economical is the rental of the building of Sloveniales?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u279	Dear Member and honourable Members! The fact is that the relocation took place for economic reasons, i.e. by moving the cost of renting the country by EUR 800,000 or the cost of employment from EUR 294 per month to EUR 207 per month. This happened about a year ago. I also believe that the situation in the real estate market has changed since then, so it is also difficult to comment on other ministries that have now rented premises there. However, the fact is that the relocation to Sloveniales allowed the agricultural ministry to join the services. This brings together services from five different locations, thereby increasing efficiency and not only efficiency, reducing free running, people moving away from different services, and we believe that in this way we will be more successful for the good of Slovenian farmers. What I would like to point out is this. The premises have been renovated, offering a high standard of living. Not as an anecdote, but as a real fact: I believe that the agricultural ministry is feeling much better in areas that are from within with wood and not marble. However, as far as long-term and economics are concerned, I must say that the lease is economical at the moment, and therefore, from the point of view of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, it is also a long-term one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Jožef Jerovšek will ask the finance minister Dr. Franc Križanič and Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar. They're both gone. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today I am asking the absent ministers the questions I want to be answered at the next meeting, although I am not satisfied with this. The Republic of Croatia and its policy, encouraged by Bianca's promise or by President Pahor's assurance given to Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor that Slovenia will not apply any reservations to Croatia's accession negotiations to the European Union, demonstrated immediately last week all arrogance towards Slovenia and its personal understanding of the commitments arising from the international treaties and also from the arbitration agreement. The success agreement, which sets out the question and return of applications to Croatian citizens at the Ljubljana Bank as part of the success, was ratified by Croatia in 2004. The Governor of Croatian National Bank Željko Rohatinski said last week strongly and arrogantly that before the Slovenian payment of Croatian savers, not NLB or any other Slovenian bank will not be granted employment permits in Croatia. In support of this statement and the Croatian understanding of international agreements, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor expressed her voice by quoting the promise made to her by Prime Minister Pahor on the day of the referendum. In addition, Mrs Kosorjeva said that the arbitration tribunal would determine the border by international law and taking into account good neighbourly relations, but without an institution of justice. The current Croatian interpretation and conduct of a successful agreement, which is an international treaty, also shows the blind Slovenian how Croatia is looking forward to the dictions and provisions of the arbitration agreement which it has set up for Slovenian politicians. It is now clear that Croatia is already referring to Article 9 of the Arbitration Agreement, which prohibits acts that could hinder Croatia's progress in the accession negotiations to the European Union. Of course, Croatia is contemptuously ignoring the statements made by state officials such as Mr Balažic, who are trying to ease Mr Pahor's disastrous promise. I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Do they have any plan of how to find out from the trap they were caught in on their own account? In order to give new and new concessions to Croatia, I ask both ministers: In addition to the final arbitration agreement now, the Croatian side is forcing visible Slovenian policies that have apparently given up defending Slovenia's interests and worshiping Croatian requirements? I'm not going to comment on potential blackmail and back-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u282	Milenko Ziherl will ask the Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar, who is absent. Please, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, again. I will first read the question and then some starting points so that the Minister can answer at the next meeting or at one of the next meetings. I attended a one-day consultation in Brussels on the establishment of a European External Action Service. It's kind of Mrs Ashton's foreign ministry. The question is: What are the views of the Republic of Slovenia on certain open issues regarding the establishment of the European External Affairs Service? How will Slovenia work in it to be recognizable and effective in international policy? I am also concerned about this issue, as I believe in the IFIMES report that Mr Hanes Svoboda has stated that the Brdo conference was unsuccessful and that it was a step backwards in regulating the situation in the Balkans. In order not to make this happen again in this important service of the European Union, I will raise some of the questions raised at the time in Brussels. The external policy of the European Union is governed by several factors. These are NATO, the European Parliament's foreign policy committees, defence and then this new service. The service is certainly necessary, because otherwise Mrs Ashton's position will be an important position, an important work for European foreign policy will be reversed and will somehow be a free floating summit. There was certainly a lot of talk about the composition of the job. Something will be transferred from the other committees already operating in the EU, and for something there will certainly be an opportunity for Slovenia to appoint or send some officials there who will be able, while implementing the Union's external policy, to also represent Slovenia's interests. It is highlighted how to share the roles of the national Parliament, the European Parliament and this foreign affairs service, i.e. the division of competence. The question of geographical representation in this body, as in all other bodies of the European Union, was also raised. Certainly there is already an opportunity here for Slovenia to achieve a great deal in international relations with the right people, or to defend the reputation of Slovenia, or to correct it and raise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General. Since the independence of Slovenia, working rights in Slovenia have been reduced above all governments. The light exception is a recent increase in the minimum wage to the level, which unfortunately makes it possible for only one person to survive. The minimum wage is thus only today at a level sufficient for the social support of an individual who is no longer able to earn his own personal income. Money social assistance for those who do not get work is still far below the level that makes it possible to survive. Therefore, the threat posed by government negotiators in the field of labour and social legislation cannot be justified by the suspension of social dialogue and the enforcement of capital proposals by the recent rise in minimum wage. We have sworn to social dialogue by the Social Democrats all these years and criticised the authorities when they tried to avoid it at the expense of the most vulnerable groups of the population. For months now, I have been working with some fellow Members to protect workers from the abuse of those irresponsible employers who do not pay their employees salaries, who do not pay social contributions and who abuse them by means of legislation that allows employers to cheat their workers unpunished. However, apart from the establishment of a group within the Ministry of Finance, the intervention of the other ministries to this group and to other ministries, letters from the ministries and the Government to Members and the two committees of the National Assembly in all these months has not yet taken place, which would prevent irresponsible employers from being further abused by employees. It follows from the documents of the ministries and the Government that these problems are still being analysed and that they are, in most cases, quite satisfied with existing legislation. A new crime may be introduced, and the Labour Inspection Act may be supplemented. However, current crimes in the field of labour relations are also defined so that employers can easily avoid penalties. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Can your ministry expect any concrete and effective measures in the field of job protection against abuse of employers? What measures and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u287	Dear Mr President, Madam Members, other Members! Let me point out that I am pleased that the constant concern on your issues is aimed at protecting workers and lower social strata, which is, of course, our concern. So let me first answer you with financial and some physical indicators. For the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, only through our actions and laws have we allocated a billion and a quarter additional resources to get these funds directly or indirectly to the lowest socio-economic categories, directly through various transfers and indirectly through the assistance that employers received. Half of that money is already in people. If I only point out the most important; the unemployed receive regular cash benefits and we have booked almost 350 additional millions of funds during this period. Active employment policy - its scope is double, financially, and twice as many are now included in employment policy programmes as it was in 2008, although the number of unemployed has increased by only 50% compared to those funds. Here are three intervention laws: part-time subsidisation, part-time remuneration and low-value measures. First 57, second 60 and third 14 million. This saved employers, but the jobs and salaries of the people in these jobs have been preserved. If we go further into the social field, then it turns out that there was an additional 60 million in cash and social assistance for this period, and there are about 17,000 more recipients. One single financial social assistance went to one hundred and three thousand individuals from the lowest economic categories, at almost fourteen million. And the Social Security Benefits Act, which will be discussed in the next days in the National Assembly, provides one hundred and fifty million additional funds to protect the most vulnerable social groups. In the area of family legislation or family transfers, for this period an additional nearly two hundred and fifty million are reserved for the additional number of families and children receiving these transfers. And if I mention - you mentioned this already - the Minimum Wages Act will give employees of the lowest qualifying places a good twenty-nine million in this year and next year, according to our estimate, additional resources. In short, in a monetary sense, as well as physical indicators, this concern is shown to be very concrete and reflected in the cash flow we have provided for times of crisis in particular. And despite the fact that public debt has grown at this time. Of course, there are other questions that you are answering, such as the specific protection of individuals. We have strengthened our inspection work for several inspectors, unlike other services, where the number of employees in the state administration has decreased. We are amending the Labour Inspection Act, which will give more powers to inspectors to take action in the future, as well as the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in the Black. If you look at the work report of the Inspectorate, which has already been dealt with by the Government, I think that there are also relevant committees, you will see that the work inspection has dramatically increased the scope of its activities and has also dealt with and tried to prevent these unloving events. Now, the special category is also workers, who are also given special attention, through amendments to the Employment and Work Act, which we have already published and are now in public debate. Then I would mention the establishment of an info point for foreigners, especially in order to obtain quick and correct information. Here are agreements, social agreements with all migratory areas or all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. At present, the agreement with Montenegro is in preparation and with all others are already or are being supplemented. So these issues are actually very intensively dealt with, in the interest of protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u289	Thank you very much for your answer. Surely it must be acknowledged to your ministry and also to this government that it has done much more in the field of social rights than all governments have done so far. There has certainly been a great deal of progress, but the backlog in this area is such that the need for change is still much greater, and it means that these problems should be addressed, which I have highlighted in particular in my question earlier. For this reason, I would like to ask a further question: And I'm asking you: Can we expect more from this government, and especially from your ministry, for the sake of employment and more obedience, also for social dialogue when it comes to social issues and fundamental labour rights as well as human rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Look, I'm sure this is, like I said, our mutual commitment and our concern. Now that we are talking about social dialogue, I must stress in particular that the number of meetings, meetings with the social partners, is extremely high. I have at least once a week a meeting with either officers or other representatives of interested groups. Of course, it must also be said that social dialogue requires dialogue on all sides and efforts and wills to find common solutions that are not always equally expressed in all social partners. Rather, what is the principle of our action in regulating this area is a principle of security of flexibility. This, of course, does not mean that we can and can remain with the same security instruments as before. These instruments will need to be redesigned, for which there is no overcomprehension, often not, especially on the part of trade unions. They will have to be remodeled, but they will not eventually be deprived of people and employees. What we want to achieve is to move from so-called passive safety, where someone in some place is protected as much as possible, without being stimulated and able to improve his own position. This is what we must do to move into a system of more active security for each individual to ourselves and, of course, through the instruments available to the State. This transition, as we see, will not be easy, will not be easy. But we are trying, and our goal is to reach the maximum consensus in this regard. Tomorrow, we will have a law in the Government that changes the Labour Relations Act, which has been the subject of many negotiations, and so on, differences. With regard to the social partners, however, it should be noted that this is such a high level of protection for certain categories of workers that it harms them in terms of employment. And such things will have to be transformed into a social security system for the benefit of those whom we all strive to be safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-14-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u292	Thank you very much. To the Prime Minister, ministers, I thank the ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 15 June 2010, at 10 a.m. I'm adjourning this session.
