ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Dr. Luka Juri, Vila Rezman, Dr. Peter Verlič, Milan Gumzar - from 16:00 on, Roberto Battelli and Marijan Pojbič. I invited the President of the Government and the Minister and Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 5th and 7th items of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 2. Seven. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party proposes to the National Assembly to withdraw from the 19th meeting of the National Assembly the Proposal for a Law on guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area, the urgent EPA-1153/V procedure. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 8. Seven. 2010 Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Please, Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We are convinced, in the Slovenian National Party, that we absolutely rightly request the withdrawal of the Proposal for a Law on guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area, irrespective of the agreement of the Heads of State or Government, and irrespective of the agreement on ECOFIN in the months of April-May this year. The first basic of the withdrawal proposal is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which notes that the proposal for a guarantee law is incompatible with the Constitution. Secondly, the proposal is incompatible with the Public Finance Act. Thirdly, the proposal is inconsistent with the Bond Act. Fourthly, that the requirement is not met is that the envisaged obligations set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget which we adopted in this Chamber on Tuesday are not reflected in this obligation. Fifthly, there is no obligation from the budget rebalancing and from the budget arising from this guarantee law, which is intended to apply immediately after its publication in the Official Journal, i.e. this year, and is the subject of this year's ZIPRO and is the subject of this budget rebalancing. Similarly, the guarantees in this law are not specifically defined as they should be by law. The guarantee under this law is not to be given by law, although it has legally determined that the guarantees are to be given by law and that the guarantees are to be confirmed only by the National Assembly and not only by the Government. In order to provide guarantees, care must be taken to ensure the appropriate level of the sovereign debt which is in state condition 31. 12. The 2009 recorded 7,14 billion euros of guarantees already issued; the absolute threat of any state property with the guarantee; the response of Slovenia to all its assets; the annual issue of the State guarantee must be limited to a nominal extent; and there is no requirement under this law. In order for the guarantees to be lodged for future obligations to be specified precisely, which are not in this law. Finally, the moral commitment that will now decide: We have limited Slovenia and Slovenia to all that we can, and outside we appear to be one of Europe's richest countries. Consider if this is fair to Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenians. We therefore propose the withdrawal of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! This is the last step towards establishing a stabilisation mechanism in the euro area. The first commitments were made this spring and were also adopted with the participation of the National Assembly in accordance with the law on the participation of the Government and the National Assembly in European Union matters. In accordance with these international commitments, we have undertaken to implement by the end of July all the necessary internal legal procedures for Slovenia's participation in the mechanism to enable the stabilisation of the euro area. The other Member States have already fulfilled this commitment, with the exception of two, Belgium and Slovakia, where the procedure was somewhat delayed due to parliamentary elections or the election of a new government. In the opinion of the Government, the draft law is consistent with the Constitution and can be considered lex specialis in relation to other laws mentioned by the Member in his address, due to the specificity of the content it regulates. By placing this item on the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly, we will allow and allow that, on issues and also on the assumption that the bill may be inconsistent with the Constitution, as stated by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we allow a substantive debate to develop on this. In the view of the Government, as has already been said, the proposal for a law is consistent with the Constitution, and with certain additions to the text of the law itself, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in yesterday's meeting also overturned its last doubts. Finally, in 2008, at the end of 2008, by supplementing the Public Finance Act, we adopted a mechanism that similarly regulates the stabilisation of the internal financial market, the Slovenian financial market. This bill also regulates the stabilisation of the euro area in a similar way, and we therefore assess that it is appropriate and necessary for the National Assembly to hold or hold a substantive debate on the proposal for a law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Jože Tanko, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, I apologize, the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! We will support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party to withdraw the item from the agenda. Also because it is no longer possible to hold a substantive debate in the National Assembly. You are considering the law as a matter of urgency, it is only possible to discuss the amendments tabled, the substantive debate, the distinguished secretary from the Minister of Finance, and it is no longer possible to do so. Secondly, the problem is that this guarantee law brings EUR 2.1 billion in guarantees to the Republic of Slovenia and we will not decide on all these guarantees in the National Assembly. If I say otherwise, it brings guarantees to the State for a quarter of the national budget and in the decision to issue guarantees, the National Assembly will be completely excluded. I believe that this law needs to be withdrawn from the agenda, that it needs to be discussed and that the role and tasks of all those who are also competent to decide on these matters in the National Assembly following this constitutional delimitation of power. The problem is also that these guarantees will not only be issued for stabilisation in the euro area, but are beautifully written there for other purposes. Other purposes may also be different, not just what is important for stabilisation. Other purposes can be adopted by the Government with a special decision and it is about stabilising any of the imported projects in the Republic of Slovenia. We will also not give our consent for this, because this huge government to allow everyone in the European Union to participate in our budgets and also in our guarantee capacities is unsustainable, while at home we radically reduce rights by means of so-called modernisation of pension, work, health, etc. At home, we will radically delete rights, and here in the most vehement way we will allow everyone to manage and benefit our financial capacities. We will therefore also support the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u7	Does he want his vote from any other group? He doesn't want to. I'm sorry. The word is "magic gentlemen." Borut Sajovic, Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I do not think that this proposal is worthy of substantive support. We all agreed on the committee that Europe needs this mechanism. If we already had this mechanism, we would not be doing the Greek guarantee the way we did, and the story would certainly be cheaper for Slovenia. Our contribution to this instrument to this company is 0.47%, that is just as much as our share in the European Bank. The mechanism is certainly positive, it is good, it is real, but legal dilemmas need to be resolved. I think that we took some important steps forward on the Committee on Finance yesterday, in fact, it is a single guarantee to one organisation. I think it would be best if the Slovenian and Slovenians never need this mechanism for themselves to simply form part of this story in the European space. Legal dilemmas need to be resolved, and the issue of mutual assistance is certainly standing and in place, so we also support it in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u9	Any other parliamentary groups? Yes, Mr. Frangež, the Group of Social Democrats. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u10	Slovenia is part of the EU and, as such, is responsible for tackling the common European challenges in the European area in a uniform and effective manner, and we are surprised by the selfishness expressed through some short-sighted debates, which is aware that the destabilisation of the European area may be affected first by Slovenia as a small economy, to a large extent by the European markets and the stability of the common European monetary area. The law that we are considering today or that we are deciding on a proposal to withdraw from the agenda of the session that we are launching today is only one of the measures that the European Union is taking in the spirit of strengthening the common European economic area to avoid all that we have seen so far in the course of the economic and financial crisis. We know where this crisis has arisen, but we also know that it has moved with all brutality to the European Union and also to Slovenia. The Greek debt crisis gives this crisis a new boost in Europe, and it is important that we know Europeans and Europeans, as well as national countries within Europe, to assess these issues responsibly. By means of a stabilisation mechanism, we will ensure the protection of our own euro currency in order to be more resilient to external influences in order to ensure continued access to financial resources in Europe, thereby ensuring the liquidity and capacity of the European economy to overcome the economic crisis we are in. Therefore, the Social Democrats will strongly oppose the opposition's proposal to withdraw this law from this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So we will support this proposal, Comrade Barovic. Today we're talking about two billion. We also discussed these two billion on the committee, and we did not all agree, we did not agree. At times, man has felt like we are talking about 100,000 euros, not two billion euros of possible liabilities for this country. I think we're in a hurry and we're in no hurry. Indeed, we do not know how the whole matter will take place in the European Union. This time we only know about Greece and the guarantee for Greece we have already accepted EUR 400 million in the National Assembly. I believe that these commitments we are taking are too high and too heavy for the Republic of Slovenia, so it would be wise to wait a little longer and see how things in the European Union are going to happen – what will happen to Spain, what will happen to Portugal, what will happen to Ireland, Iceland, etc. – and then decide how we will act to stabilise the euro. I believe that we will do the most to ensure the stability of the euro by fighting for Slovenia to have a stable economy and stable finances. This will be the biggest contribution to the stability of the euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by Victory Jelinčič noble, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. The withdrawal of this law from this debate is necessary. It's an unprecedented nonsense. Giving a guarantee to someone who can't pay it back is a lost cause. Go to Slovenian courts or to any courts around the world and you will see that the wedding usually loses all its assets. Everything he's put in goes away. We should be aware of that, and we should be taking care of our country, but I don't know who everyone is. It is interesting that yesterday, the Belgian Ambassador, when representing the future Belgian Presidency of the European Union, replied to the question of our fellow Member, Mr Barovic, that he knows nothing about any Luxembourg association, any guarantees for any money, etc. In short, he was completely surprised. Slovenia seems to be doing something again under duress in the European Union, as it has already done in these Greek loans. Two billion and 73 million money is huge money. There were unionists in front - you don't care. People can't live. You don't care. Doctors, teachers, everyone who can go around crying, crying - you'll take their wages, but you'll give some Europeans, first the Greeks, and the Portuguese, and the Italians, the Hungarians are on the same track and a whole bunch of these countries, and that money will be lost. A quarter of the state budget will be thrown out the window, and a few days ago we had a rebalancing! As far as the stability of the euro is concerned, it is wiser if our smart Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, proposes that Turkey be taken into the euro area, not into the European Union, but into the euro area, and that this solution should be considered and that Greece should be considered leaving the euro area at the same time. This is a solution, but not to see that it is necessary to be in solidarity with some Greek workers who have three times the salary of Slovenians not to talk about other matters at all. In short, the Slovenian government in this case is making a huge mistake. He probably doesn't even realize this mistake, because if smart people were in positions, then we wouldn't be doing it. Smart people are in Europe that fools like us Slovenians are pounding; and this will happen to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the proposer wish to further explain his proposal? He wants to, please, he wants to. Please, Mr. Barovich. Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u16	Many truths have been heard, many words, but I would point out once again that we should pay attention to the very legal provisions that speak of this. Secondly, it is especially strange that we went first at the same time to lend to Greece, at the same time that we knew that there was a proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees before us, which adds to the suspicion of - or not knowing what was being done or that there were other secrets behind it. And not lastly, I say again. What is even more surprising is that the law goes by the urgent procedure, that the first point of the Presidency of the country of Belgium is the European Union's title of Improving the economic situation in Europe and that, in fact, the Ambassador did not know anything about this content. And I also have to tell you that a week ago, I was on COSAC, and there was no word on this content. So I do propose to my colleagues and colleagues - let's move this item off the agenda, the law was just amended at the board meeting, by the way, in half an hour, so smart are all Members that in two days we invented amendments and amended a law that was very bad and thus made the law the best and fixed everything the Law-Legal Service has been studying day and night. In short, all of this makes us think that that's not the way the laws are written, and especially those with two billion burdens, which means 7.14 billion plus 2 billion, there's 9.14 billion. By the way, we have heard that another half billion will be needed by the New Ljubljana Bank. So that we will raise 10 billion for a quick guarantee, while stressing only one thing that no one wants to hear - the guarantee means that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is responding with all its assets. It means when she has to pay, if she doesn't have that money in her balance sheet, she's gonna have to answer with her assets. Slovenian property, colleagues and colleagues, we know which is the property of Slovenes and Slovenes. Please be reasonable, accept this motion for withdrawal. Let the law be carefully prepared to prepare itself and then we will talk about it when the time is right and when Slovenia will have the money for what it guarantees.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda of the meeting be extended by considering a proposal for a decision on the declaration of a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 6 June 2010, EPA 1020/5. You received the proposal by letter dated 7. Seven. 2010 Would you like a representative of the proposed enlargement of Milenko Ziherl, Vice-President of the Committee? He doesn't want to. Do government representatives want a word? They don't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. So we are voting on the proposal for enlargement. There are 72 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The assembly will consider this point as the 24th point on Tuesday, 13. Seven. 2010 The LDS Group proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda should be extended by the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their Areas, EPA 1031/5. The proposal for enlargement is contrary to the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and therefore the National Assembly will not discuss and vote on this proposal. Procedural proposal, Anton Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u18	Dear Mr. President! On your proposal and your assurance that it is necessary to consider the law at first reading at an extraordinary meeting, a qualified number of Members have made a request and the law has also been examined and adopted in the first reading at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It is undeniable that it is a necessary time for the law to be adopted in order not to delay certain deadlines, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure allowing for an extension of the agenda. As an sworn Democrat, I understand that you have made a different decision and that you oppose the adoption of this law, but it is unacceptable that procedural and other complications make this impossible. In this process since last spring, the National Assembly has always expressed its appreciation and found that all the conditions for this procedure to be completed have been fulfilled, the will of the electorate has been expressed, and you have assured them on several occasions that you will do everything you can to enable the National Assembly, on behalf of democracy, to decide on this matter, but not to make it impossible, through procedural complications, to decide within a period of time, including with the help of some of the professional colleagues you are paying. for ad hoc advice to the 2000-month National Assembly on how to advise you and how to bypass the procedure in the National Assembly in order to achieve the will. I have absolutely nothing against it to make a decision and a vote, as everyone thinks. However, I find it unacceptable that the National Assembly cannot decide on matters that meet all the conditions. In the past, you have been informed of a number of decisions by the Constitutional Court that, when the will of the electorate is expressed, the National Assembly is not in a position to arbitrarily decide on how it will deal with these outcomes. Some of the opinions of constitutional lawyers, which are certainly more justified than the opinion of your adviser for the 2000 euro net per month that he has advised you to do so, have been given, so I suggest that the National Assembly simply decide to conclude this procedure: either that the law will not be adopted, or that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u19	Madam President, unfortunately, as I have stated, I cannot put this proposal to the vote at all because I have said that it is contrary to Article 6, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure. And, of course, the fact is that the report of the committee which could be the basis for the consideration of this law is not prepared or signed by the committee's competent chairman or one which could and should sign this report. The matter is, unfortunately, over. In my opinion, not particularly well, but unfortunately, there is nothing we can do here. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held in order, as you have adopted by reference, and that the agenda be supplemented. An explanation of vote, Mr Barovic, on the agenda. On behalf of the delegation? On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems very important for us to explain our vote in order to oppose the proposal for a agenda. We are absolutely aware that we are here as a legislative body to enact laws, to form life and work with these laws in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we oppose such a way of preparing the agenda. When they put on this agenda the points that are poorly prepared, which are incomplete, which we create just like that, in mind and in conjunction with some amendments, as if they were writing free writings. I don't think such a way of working in the National Assembly is worthy of Slovenians and Slovenians. It is difficult to decide the matters that we are forced to get on the table, which we all know well how they are, for which many of us may be within ourselves, but beyond their hope not to show, we are convinced that we cannot accept such a law as we have proposed for withdrawal, by writing some amendments just before the present, which is on the tables and by exchanging them and deciding whether or not to do so. This is no way for the National Assembly to work. And since the National Assembly has done so, because there are also some laws in the future that the content of law is possible or not, I will not discuss this today, but the same will not be the case without dialogue with Members within the creation of the agenda, as well as dialogue with certain laws with the social partners, with employers, with employers. It's not working. First, the law must be finalized, then it can be placed on the agenda where it is finally formed. For all these reasons, the Slovenian National Party opposes the proposed agenda for this 19th meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you. And the explanation for the voice, Mr. Tanko? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Respected! Our Group of Members also opposes the agenda of this meeting. Not only because there is a guarantee law on it, which imposes a burden of one quarter of the national budget, but also because some of the laws that are not in line with the social partners are also on the agenda. It's a law on health care, it's a law on working relationships, it's a law on small work, it's a law on some kind of law. Here I must say that our party opposes the violence of the coalition that it carries out over everyone in this country. It is not a problem to ensure, I don't know, the financial stability of the EU countries, Greece, and the countries which are forecasting major financial problems. The problem is also that the Government is not able to provide and bring procedures concerning the regulation of social conditions within the country. The social dialogue is completely dead. The government has failed to find appropriate communication paths with students, with unions, with doctors, etc. This violence that you bring to the National Assembly when you try to obtain the legitimacy of the majority, the coalition majority in the National Assembly, is unacceptable to our parliamentary group. Therefore, we cannot support such proposals, decisions and agendas in the National Assembly and will therefore oppose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u23	The hall is beautiful. We're voting. Excuse me, my apologies, the position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! The Rules of Procedure lay down rules of procedure in the National Assembly and this Rules of Procedure do not allow the withdrawal of points today unless we did so by 12 noon yesterday. That is why, of course, it is not possible today to do what the coalition parties announced yesterday in terms of the agenda and the decision-making on the agenda that we will do in the process of this meeting of the National Assembly. As everyone knows, we have announced the withdrawal of the Health Act because it takes some time to complete a quality law. We have agreed to withdraw or because it is impossible to withdraw, to reject the labour law and thus allow us to continue what we hear many times – sounding – the social dialogue that will lead to the regulation of what the actual situation requires of us in the labour law. So, straw companies, how to prevent what's happening now from happening. Therefore, the possibility of amendments by September, when this law is to be again on sent-off benches, is sufficient. Today, we will also, in the Group of Social Democrats, confirm the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly for reasons which I have stated and to avoid misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We're voting on the agenda. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 23. (The vote was 46.)(against 23.) I take it that the agenda for the 19th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to nine. At the time of the day, this is on the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Payment System in the Public Sector within the framework of the cut-off procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u27	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u28	Dear Members and Members! The new Public Sector Wages Act, which is before you today, requires three reasons to be confirmed. The first is that, within six months, we are removing the unconstitutional situation in this area, i.e. in the area of public sector wages, as found by the Constitutional Court in its individual work. The second reason is that in the social agreement we promised to coordinate the salaries of public servants by half in 2010 according to the spring forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. This agreement is implemented in a way to legitimize the value of the wage class, which has been harmonised, increased by 0.65%, as was the commitment made last year. And the third part we deal with is the regulation of systemic issues that we have managed to reconcile in a five-month social dialogue in an important part with the public sector unions. These 22 solutions, which are before you today, are harmonised in 18 articles, 4 articles are not coordinated with the social partners because of the reason we have, of course, tried to explain the arguments that lead the government in this regard. It is an order of duty, it is a regulation of the positional allowance, but after the coordination we have even extended for a month, the Government has decided that the arguments are in favour of the proposed regulation. In the other 18 articles, trade unions insisted that this was to remedy the shortcomings that proved indisputably weak when the new pay system was being evaluated as a lack of clarity and prudently regulated. Indisputably, we have proposed other solutions to trade unions to address the shortcomings of the Public Sector Wage System Act. As these are systemic solutions, improvements are being made in an area where solutions at the time of the adoption of the law in 2007 and 2008 have not met the objectives, as was undisputedly established in implementation, and as the legislator wanted when the new pay system was approved. It is a matter of regulating the award, more fair remuneration of public servants in view of the work performance of these and the issues of regulating progress. With the social partners, we have found that these are complex systemic changes that need to be carefully considered, and last year we agreed on a time frame for coordination by 1 May 2010, in a concerted manner, to move to September 2010 so that we will also submit these issues with a new law on the public sector's salary system in September or in autumn's work to the National Assembly for consideration. In this part of the two uncoordinated solutions, I would like to point out that, in the 14-day coordination between the government negotiating group and the public sector unions, we have tried to present to the social partners all the relevant arguments that are in favour of the proposed solutions, and we have tried to make it clear that we want to address the shortcomings of the pay system. I am sure that today, in the debate, we will be able to convince the majority of Members and Members that we are really addressing the shortcomings in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Thus, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system was considered by the Committee at its 20th meeting on 30 June 2010. The proposal is, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the College of the President of the National Assembly is 7. 6. He decided that this law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee had before them a proposal for a law, then an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council, a reply from the Ministry of Public Administration to the opinion of the legislative service, an amendment from the negotiating group of representative trade unions. Within a time limit laid down, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group to the fifth articles and by the coalition groups to the sixth articles. We invited the Ministry of Public Administration, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements, the Council of Justice, the head of the negotiating group of public sector trade unions, Mr Janez Posedi, and the Pergam trade union. The initial supplementary explanation was given by the Minister, but we have just heard it in almost similar form, of course in short form. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 16. 6. 2010 which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The draft law was accompanied by comments from the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 2, 4, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, and 20. The representative of the Council of State said they supported the bill. Mr Posedi, President of FIDES Mr Kuštrin and Mr Bojan Popovic, representative of the Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia Pergam Mr Jakob Počivavšek, gave their views and comments below. In a debate that was rather controversial, the members and members of the Committee and the others were invited to discuss the draft law. The coalition MPs supported the law, including their amendments, and in the opposition we stressed that part of the law was not in line with the social partners. At the conclusion of the debate, the Committee went to the vote on the individual articles of the bill. The Committee supported the amendments of the coalition to Articles 4, 8, 9, 14, 18, 19, and 20 and the SDS Group's Article 13 draft law. The Committee did not support the other amendments of the SDS Group by 2 and 10 of the draft law. However, the SDS Amendment to Article 19 remained irrelevant. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and also adopted them and the bill is an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme makes wide and no significant changes. The new Law on the Public Sector Salaries Scheme regulates: payments for foreign persons employed in Slovenia for a certain period of time and have a special contract with which all remuneration and other benefits are provided; the arrangements for salaries for officials posted to work abroad; the establishment of a different basis for calculating allowances during on-call periods and the reduction in the amount of allowances for work in less favourable working hours and the establishment of posts for on-call on-call on-call staff; the reduction of the amount of social security in the new wage group, which will only cover the amount of allowances paid in nominal amount; the abolition of the statutory period of employment, the regulation of inspections of supervision; the classification of posts in the fields of compulsory social security in the new wage group, which will be paid in the area of compulsory social security; the abolition of the registered non-conformalisation of the statutory provisions with respect to the two types of law and the provisions of the law of the law, and the law governing the collective acquis. The system of public sector work has been considerably updated in recent years, and a lot of money has also been invested, so it is also reasonable to think in the direction of rationalising employment, in terms of how much of the number of jobs on the country's payroll has been reduced at the expense of modernisation. I believe that the number of employees at the expense of the system's modernisation has not decreased, but has increased, as each government is re-employing loyal people and thus reducing the state budget. On the basis of the novel under consideration, public financial expenditure for public sector employees is expected to decrease by €4 million per year. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we do not support all the proposed solutions brought by the novelty, but because of the worrying public financial situation, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wages Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System is to regulate issues that are unclear or poorly regulated in the law, which means the elimination of deficiencies in the public sector's payment system: payment arrangements for foreign persons employed in Slovenia for a certain period of time and have a specific contract for which all salaries and other benefits are provided, remuneration arrangements for officials who are posted abroad, the establishment of a different basis for calculating allowances at the time of on-call and the reduction in the amount of allowances for work in less favourable working hours paid to public servants during on-call periods, and the establishment of posts for which on-calling is carried out for individual budget consumers. At this point, we would like to point out in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that this bill with an amendment adopted on the home labour body represents a step towards understanding the problems in Slovenian health care. At the time until 1. 1. 2011 We expect that the issue of providing 24-hour healthcare for users will be regulated in a way that will not affect the quality of healthcare for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The reduction in the height of the position allowance is not related to the amount of the allowances to be paid in the nominal amount of the working time. Arrangements for inspection. Classification of compulsory social security jobs into a new wage group, which will only include posts for compulsory social security. Eliminating the found non-compliance of the legal provisions with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and ensuring an equal level of protection of rights for all officials. Less complex amendments and additions to individual articles of the law, which are not of a substantive nature, but are intended to improve the text of individual articles with a view to eliminating the ambiguities or ambiguities of individual articles. The new law follows the principles of respect for equality before the law, ensuring an equal level of protection of rights and details of legal regulation. With regard to the other principles of the basic law, these include the establishment of a common payment system for civil servants and officials, the establishment of an appropriate relationship between the salaries of public servants and officials, the establishment of a flexible payment system that will more closely link the level of wages to the efficiency and results of the work, transparency and a manageable payment system from the point of view of public finances, the proposed amendment to the basic law does not derogate. The main solutions in the field of on-calls are the on-calling of the basic salary of the on-call job and not from the basic salary of the on-call public servant and reduced allowances belonging to public servants during duty by 50 %. The removal of the inadmissible distinction between judicial officials and other officials whose legislator, as established, did not provide an equal level of protection of rights in the 2009 Constitutional Court decision. The proposed solution thus eliminates all officials from a 5% reduction in the protected wage. The second paragraph of Article 49 of the Law provides that, in the event that an official in subgroup A1, A2, A4 other than Constitutional Judges, Prosecutors of State, Advocates of State, and A5 has received a salary of more than 5% lower than the salary established in accordance with the rules applicable to the start of the payment account, after the determination of the salary in accordance with Article 49f of this Act — a transfer to the new payment system. The amount of the difference to the amount of the salary determined by the rules applicable until the start of the remuneration of the officials under this Act shall be reduced by 5 %. This means that his protected salary is reduced by 5%. On the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed solution eliminates all officials from a 5% reduction in the protected salary and is equivalent to judicial officials. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also support other legal solutions, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democrats Group, we are aware that regulating salaries in the public sector, where employees with the same levels of education of employees in different jobs, is a demanding project mainly because it is probably difficult to determine which profession is more or less important, more or less responsible, more or less demanding. We are employed in the public sector in payroll groups and subgroups from the President of the Republic and officials of all three branches of government, directors, secretaries, directors, civil servants, state administrations and in judicial and municipal administrations, police officers, soldiers, customs officers, diplomats, teachers at all levels of education, educators, doctors, dentists, nurses, health workers and other professions in this field. Not least the researchers, and so on. There are over 150 000 of us, and all these jobs are important and are linked to our work and life in all ages. It is clear from the material that the Government has coordinated and coordinated with representatives of representative trade unions on most of the proposed amendments and additions, and the other four articles are not coordinated. I'm sure it's important. At the time of the consideration of the novel on the working body, the discussion revolved only around these uncoordinated articles, which are linked to the situation of the additives, as the maximum of the positional supplement is reduced from 20% to 12%, and the addition of the paragraph determining who is entitled to the positional allowance and to the duty or whether the proposed level of payment of duty is legal and whether it is sufficiently paid. By adopting the amendment to Article 19 of the Labour Code, we have provided that, by 1 January 2011, the users of the budget, with the consent of the competent minister from the recruitment of posts in the applicable collective agreements, must establish in the internal acts the posts on which the on-call is carried out. However, the proposal for a job-setting act should be forwarded in advance to the representative union, because the first proposed deadline may have been too short and we have therefore extended it. This novel also brings other important changes, namely: the regulation of salaries for civil servants who are posted to work abroad, the regulation of the salaries of those who carry out projects and have contracts concluded – this is about regulating the status of Slovenian and foreign researchers – introduces inspection supervision and places of compulsory social security in the new wage group. The amendment also takes into account the provision of an annex to the public sector collective contract, which means that the basic payment is based on this annex from 1. Seven. 2010 harmonises half the price growth rate in Slovenia, i.e. 0.65%. The found non-compliance of the legal provision with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is also eliminated. The public sector payroll system introduced in August 2008 was already a heavy burden on the state budget, as it was already predicted that wage imbalances would be eliminated gradually in thirds, despite the fact that a specific budget line had already been set up to address the wage imbalance. I can conclude with the next thought. The establishment of a common wage system for the public sector has been a demanding project and obviously not well thought out. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want government representatives and representatives of representative unions to continue to negotiate and try to find solutions that, if you want, will be acceptable to most public officials in these difficult times. The Social Democrats will support the bill, but we will not support the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u38	A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! Today is an important day, not only because of this law, which is before us, which is actually less important, but not because of the group of people that it concerns, although every group of people is important, but if one comes before the other or vice versa. It's about values today. Each policy should be based, as polytology teaches, on values, on positive values. And Slovenian policy has been based on two values throughout the period of the existence of Slovenia, namely social dialogue and social partnership. And in fact today it is only and exclusively for these two values. The fact is that I do not envy today the minister, who is in an ingratitude role, that he has to tap the august barn of economic failure of the current government with new wallpapers with the appearance of savings. Because the austerity effect of this law will be relatively small, especially when compared with some frivolous moves, such as granting aid to Greece at a distance of more than EUR 300 million, without pre-requiring Greece to make order in its public finances, among its public servants, and implementing the criteria that would ensure the future success of the country, in line with the criteria of the euro area. Now it's like giving a chronic drunk a bottle of booze and saying, "Well, in a few months, when you're not thirsty anymore, you're gonna bring it back." We'll see what we can get out of this! On the other hand, this same government is only in the first rebalancing of the acts that were adopted on the proposal of the previous government, in the first rebalancing of its existence, ladies and gentlemen, when it has already talked a lot about the crisis here, raising spending by no less than 800 million euros, which are now unknown where - it saves in the way that is before us. And what did she do about it? What is really ahead of us today is a test, a test of the real economic policy of this government, which follows completely other real values than it itself declares. Because today, on the one hand, it is a tragedy that they are dying of social dialogue and social partnership, which has been stricken in the back by the very government, which, tragically, swears to the left ideology and presents itself as a lion. This is what is the essence of the story that is happening today in Parliament. In fact, the government has now shown its true face: caring for a narrow circle of people from types of capital, caring for certain privileged layers [[You know exactly who in the past she has raised her wages and earmarked certain funds]] and tightens the belt for everyone else. And in order to continue and step up this work, it destroys social dialogue and social partnership as fundamental values. This is something we saw in another country many years ago, it was called thatcherism. However, a warning: thatcherism, which was really based in the first phase on the destruction of trade unions, but it was for trade unions and not for trade unions in the general sector and health care, then developed a successful economic policy. However, this government does not miss any opportunity to prove over and over again that it is completely incapable of leading an effective development policy and that it much prefers to deal with itself, even yesterday and today; so nothing new on the sunny side of the Alps. Why did the government choose this particular group? In fact, this law is largely affected mainly by doctors, nurses and medical personnel, because it counts on envy. And it is sad, for every work is precious. And in this case, the enforcement of solutions that people will not agree with because social dialogue has been undermined can, and it appears, lead to a decrease in the quality of services, a decrease in the quality of life of people and a further spill of the most valuable, quality personnel abroad. It's the real policy of this government. For not only was social dialogue undermined, but even in the part where the agreement was reached, the social partners were gravely played. More about that when we get to Article 9.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The positions of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are changing the so-called Virant's Public Sector Wage System Act. The law, for which everyone in this country would probably be happy at this point, would never have been, because it has brought so much bad, the mistakes of this law are so huge that at this moment it actually hurts the head of at least half of Slovenia. What was repeatedly warned at the time of the adoption turned out to be even worse than the warnings given at the time. At least what is said is what is known about a number of matters, but above all the financial consequences. The calculations were, on purpose or not, completely incorrect. The implementation of this law has not been checked in practice and there have been extremely large deviations and errors in the implementation and application of this law in many institutions. Among the public servants, we pushed everything, from journalists, researchers, to the most creative people and, of course, there was a balancing machine, which today causes only passiveness at work among people. In short, today we have the first package or package of changes that have been made and prepared on the basis of a number of shortcomings that have been highlighted in the reports by the Court of Auditors, which has been pointed out by the ministries, the public sector unions; in short, here in this law, these changes are expected to be the first serious and deeper changes to this. This work has not been easy and you will certainly agree that a huge amount of energy has been invested in it, a long and long-lasting work coordinated by Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, whom I believe is still highly commendable, despite the fact that some articles have simply not been harmonised. In particular, there are two types of changes that are systemic in nature: the issue of progress and the issue of work performance. Salaries and other remuneration for officials assigned to work abroad are also included. It is also one of the solutions to remedy the unconstitutional situation that is to be rectified within a period of six months in relation to the regulation for officials, which the legislator has fixed as much as 5% of the deduction from salary on average, and these are those officials who are employed in the authorities: the Ombudsman, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the President of the State and so on. There is also a better solution, either in a new way or in a different way, to determine the legal basis for the operation of an inspection body to monitor the implementation of the provisions of the wage system in the public sector. I think that this is a very important matter, because it says, corrective control has not been possible so far or has been very unsuccessful. We are also pleased that the issue of duty has also opened. It is a very sensitive, very sensitive question, because we need to know and stem from the fact that, under this law, health wages have increased by more than 30%. No one expected that. And most of this enormously high rise, which simply cannot be achieved by a health treasury during a crisis, is linked to the issue of on-call duty. Even on those spots where it's painful. Of course, doctors have an extremely good negotiating position. They built it for years and years, also because there are at least 150 doctors in Slovenia. But it is sad that sometimes it is heard and talks about the fact that, in fact, it was also caused by purpose, that they were limited entries. For why do we not lack lawyers, why do we not lack other professions, but precisely lack doctors - because of course their negotiating position is difficult! As far as Zereza is concerned, we are happy to extend the matter, to extend the deadlines for regulating this matter, because only this law could not fix it in a way that would not be painful. We expect that the Ministry of Health will make use of this period in order to prepare those grounds, so that this transition will also be regulated in a way that will not result in a collapse of the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have yet again amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act. We are therefore talking about a sector in which, in our view, there is still much to be saved. We have already said that public spending increases enormously in December each year. We probably all understand why. And it is also crystal clear to all of us that this is not right. However, is something changing here, or is a change proposed? No! No! Today we will talk about the reduction of the positional allowance and the issue of the arrangements for the payment of medical bills. We have two solutions before us that the Government has not been able to harmonise in negotiations with the social partners, and we should now, here in Parliament, adopt such uncoordinated proposals. The fact is that the Government should talk, negotiate and negotiate what is good for this country at a given time. If it is considered necessary to reduce the positional allowance and on-call payments in the health register, then we are very surprised by the insistence of the opposite party in its positions or the Government's proposal is not only as good, as very useful or as effective as the Government represents. It may be worth considering the statement that if on-calling is the biggest problem in health care, there are no problems in health care at all. But there are problems in health care, and that is what those who have had a major health problem are most aware of. When you lie down on an E.R. and you don't know if someone's dealing with your problem or not, when you're hospitalized and you've been waiting for an incomprehensible long time to diagnose and then even more incomprehensiblely long for surgery and so on. We have health problems primarily in patients and, however, we allow doctors and other medical personnel good working conditions and a good pay for work, and we are certainly even more sympathetic to those patients who are standing in waiting lines than the numbers that pass through the gods in white. It's too often, I'm sorry. For these reasons, in particular, we will support the proposed amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, although they are only important at the symbolic level. For we believe that doctors are also part of the public sector, which is forced to save in one way or another, and that doctors are also part of this country and this moment, which surrounds all of us and is still called the crisis. However, we certainly expect more effective measures from the Government to manage public finances in line with our proposals in the context of the budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The regulation of the payment system in the public sector in Slovenia has been a stumbling block virtually since its implementation. It is recalled that there is a lack of transparency, disproportionateity, weakness and anomalies in terms of the comparability of wages. Nevertheless, it is not as drastic as it is heard about Greek civil servants, but also not as regulated as the Scandinavian countries and the authorities of the European Union practice it. We found ourselves somehow in a "post" crisis period, when it is simply necessary to turn each euro and lower those costs or public spending costs where possible and which sustain it. The bag, which is intended for the salaries of public servants, can be reduced, but I am warning - the latter only on the basis of the salary abnormalities found while not making the position of employees worse. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this time a bill which governs this area is directed in this direction and therefore suitable for support. However, we note that the larger, drastic interventions in this segment that are forecast will not withstand significant arguments. We are convinced that it is essential to approach the removal of all the anomalies in the pay system, which often mean, although legally permissible, but nevertheless abuse of the legal provisions that result in unreasonable duplication of wage supplements, excessive supplements. The purpose of this proposal is practically clear, as it essentially follows only the objectives of the exit strategy in terms of reducing labour costs in the public sector. Of course, wage intervention is an extremely sensitive topic, even when it comes to unilateral interventions or interventions that are not in line with workers’ unions. Public sector statements are announced, not only those most affected by these provisions, but by all public servants, provided that unilateral commitment to this cashier's fund continues. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that certain changes are needed in the Public Sector Wage System Act, in particular in terms of eliminating the anomalies that cause inequality, the unjustified payment of higher wages or allowances and the like - and we support and will support such changes in the future. We also think that, as a lifeboat to get out of this crisis, it is also possible to cut into a payroll - to some extent, meaning that the interference and reduction of the rights and the situation indefinitely, on unjustified grounds in the future, we will not be able to support it, as this bag is not a bottomless bag either. This time, however, we support DeSUS Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article tabled by the amendments to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 8 July 2010. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, then the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you. I have listened with great interest to the discussions of respected colleagues, in particular from the ruling coalition, and I find it difficult to believe that they are so naive that they would really believe that today this group of people who have cited it so much. I would have believed in political frivolity earlier that they had so much emphasis on a group of people, especially doctors, because they rely on fossija, like that old Slovenian sad trait. We all know that if the fosjes burned, Slovenia would have a fantastic export item. For, in fact - and I stress this - it is not about them, nor is it about saving, which is otherwise the stated purpose of this law. The effect is relatively small in the public finances of the law itself. If you are compared to 800 million Euros spent in the first rebalancing of this government, which raised so much in the time of the crisis, the budget funds envisaged and then spent by God knows what, and you are not convinced by the contested aid to Greece, without having previously been required by Greece to make order in its finances and in the system of public servants in Greece, where 100,000 people do not go to work at all, then you get half the pay as a worker who works hard in Slovenia. If you are not convinced by all of this, make sure from this comparison: after the decision of this coalition and this government, about €60 million goes to Serbia every year only in addition to the pension gap. This is what this coalition adopted and voted and was signed at the end of last year's government visit. This is said to go from public finances to Serbia in only three months, more money than will be saved from this law. Then it's clear that that's not the point. Actually, it's in the test. Today is a test, the government is testing its actual economic policy, the modern Balkan thatcherism of the destruction of unions, the playing of even union trust. And this article we're talking about is therefore the best evidence. On the other hand, it is attempting to falsify its economic failure with the appearance of this saving, which is otherwise necessary. But the way the government went about it is very bad, for Slovenia, I say, tragic. For in doing so, it has fully promoted social dialogue and social partnership as fundamental values that Slovenia has respected throughout its independent existence. And I say that today we would need social dialogue and social partnership more than we have ever done in the past, and everyone, from Mr Semilic and the Union of Free Trade Unions, if anyone does not believe to look at the minutes of the State Council meeting, at the Independence Union, the Pergam Union and the Union of Unions 90. They say the same thing. Social dialogue has never been at such a low point in the history of independent Slovenia as it is today. For not only does the Government literally force, and in the conditions when it will fall, and it is already whistling, we have heard a little earlier, will this government confront us, not in the streets, as some words always speak, but it will face the streets with unions, with people, with bitter fruits of its own economic failure and ingenuity in the destruction of social dialogue. But then it will be too late, ladies and gentlemen. The path you have taken does not just mean the collapse of social dialogue, even more, but even the confidence that remains between the Government and the representatives of employees has been played. And if anyone among the employees still thinks of this group of people covered by this law, 'oh, because they have high salaries', let them realize that exactly the same will happen to every employee already in the first next law, which comes on the agenda when the confidence of the social partners is also being undermined, social dialogue when it comes to employment, employment, small work and everything else, which the Government has already sent to Parliament without the consent of the social partners. And then, if someone is having fun today or is being followed indifferently, it will be, unfortunately, too late. One of the great fathers of the U.S. Constitution said, "If someone's having fun, when they're taking away their freedom, he's not worthy of freedom, and he's going to lose it very quickly." And when it comes to social rights and social freedom, the story is exactly the same. And these values are, in fact, one group of people today, not saving. Indeed, this article has established an agreement between the social partners not to interfere with the solutions contained in this Article and, therefore, to trade in some of the solutions that they have intended to propose, nor have they persisted. They pulled them themselves. Then the ruling coalition changed that, of course, to the detriment of what they wanted the union to do with the amendments at the working body meeting. That's why I'm talking about it. This isn't just about killing social dialogue and social partnership as values, it's about murder. It is a conscious action and a test of a certain policy that works exclusively for the benefit of a narrow circle of ruling, privileged groups and capital, and it stresses this as a result of left ideology. Yeah, what the hell! However, be aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the collapse of social dialogue and social partnership, of the mistrust of the social partners you are sowing today, you will soon want to be a storm. In the social partnership, it would be most normal to harmonise the basic solutions, and above all to at least what is harmonised, to respect the word given there. You didn't do any of this. Rumor has it there's got to be a hurry to save money. Yes, how hasty you were when you had to spend 800 million euros in your first rebalancing! Now he's in a hurry. Very interesting policy, I must say. How did the government and the ruling coalition behave arrogantly when we proposed measures to boost economic growth, so that after such action and action it would never be necessary to cut! We have proposed at one session 63 measures in favour of the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian economy, up to the last, including those that would not cost one euro alone, would only save it from small and medium-sized enterprises as the most sensitive and stimulating part of the Slovenian economy and, if you would like, the development sector. You refused to do that, too. Napooh is one of the principal sins and the bitter fruit of this we all pay — at this very moment! In the short term, there will be legislation touching work, working conditions, the labour market, partly legal protection itself, after all, workers. And in all these laws that you have drafted and sent to Parliament so far, the social dialogue has been violated. A test of how far you go, as you say, is happening today and here. And for now, it appears you'll be blindly insisting on this. But I would ask you to be at least as fair, on behalf of the fundamental, if not of ethics, and at least of good taste, to stop defending your solutions with comparisons that don't last at all. The reform of the whole payroll system, in the part that has been implemented so far, I say, plus - don't forget that for that reform, employees in the public sector of years and years have saved themselves for the elimination of wage imbalances - plus everything that the previous government has actually committed or the ruling coalition, if you want, for the benefit of people, at the time of economic growth, the greatest economic growth in the history of independent Slovenia, even roughly does not reach the 800 and several million euros that you have spent on the first rebalancing alone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u47	Dear colleague Grims, now I'm going to interrupt you so I won't take the time to warn you. I'll give you my word back, of course, so you know. I will read to you Article 9, which reads: 'In the first paragraph of Article 24, the text 'and the performance of the work' is deleted and the text 'as the leader of the internal organisational unit' is added. In the second paragraph, the number '20 %' is replaced by '12 %'. You want to delete this article with this proposal. I also allow a broader context of the debate and it is right, I have always stood in this position, but it is primarily up to you, Mr Grims, mag. Grims, to what extent will you go in this and I recommend that you remain at least in the context to which this amendment relates. Thank you very much. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you for your unlawful interference with my word, because you confirmed with it that I hit exactly the point that I had to set, that I hit the core of the story that's going on here today, that it's really about values. And in response to this, I answer you with the words of the union representative at the committee meeting, when we spoke precisely about this article, why this article is so controversial, because of the amendment adopted by the ruling coalition and I am talking about it. "We wanted this to be clearly stated in the law, but then we withdrew this proposal because the Government had ensured that this article would not affect it. And it is extremely unacceptable that Members of the ruling coalition are now amending this article, paragraph 9, in this part, by further aggravating the situation for those employees who are in practice leading and coordinating and organising the work of a certain number of public servants." End of quote. This is from a tapegram of what's going on at the board meeting, and unfortunately, the unionists don't have a chance to talk to us here today, so I'm taking this opportunity to give them their arguments. And my response to the comment is the one I started with: it is not this group that is formally in this law, it is not a matter of much saving, because the public financial effects of this law will be relatively small. It is a test of some new real policy that is beating social dialogue and social partnership, which I think has a mandate to do what it wants, but it doesn't. In the fall, if not sooner, you will face the sad results of this work and the social bomb you are making yourself by beating up social dialogue. I don't know why such an easy-to-think policy, because today we would need social dialogue and social partnership more than ever, but arrogance is always on the short track.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr Grimes! You have repeated many claims that I, at least I hope, have already responded to the committee, but two claims have been reexplained because they are simply wrong. The murder of the social dialogue you're reading to me and so on. Mr Grims, social dialogue is extremely demanding in these times, unlike social dialogue in your time. Social dialogue and discussions with the social partners during these two years when Slovenia is indisputably in crisis and it is not possible to have the same scale of public finances as we would like to have, because we are talking about reducing rights or that some of the rights that people are counting on are not being paid. You know exactly how this conversation is much more demanding than talking to trade unions, how to distribute individual rights, it is demanding, but it goes in a different, positive direction. That is why I resent you, and I personally resent you, this kind of nuisance, knowing that you personally know that the way of social dialogue is very demanding for trade unions in such acute situations. And last year, after two agreements, which were not sufficient to assess economists if you want, effective or insufficiently intervened in the position of employees, but you can conclude that the agreement was reached; that we agreed on social dialogue and it was important. In this part we had to agree, because the dynamics of eliminating the pay imbalances that you postponed into our mandate required an agreement – otherwise an intervention law that would go through a collective agreement. Look, I'm just asking you here, because that's all I can actually do for more accuracy. When you said that the public officials were saving themselves — yes. A fund that was unfortunately not designed would be worth 240 million euros. But for a wage reform, it would be estimated that my predecessor, Minister Virant, would need 450 million euros in both crisis years. So this part of the surplus was nowhere, and the previous part was nowhere, because the fund was not designed. Everything should be provided in 2009 and 2010, if we did not agree with the unions, from poor and oropaña state treasury, both the health and the integrated budget. I'm just asking you to be right. And this saying that in this case we have murdered social dialogue. I have to, and I have to do it again. When my colleague, Minister Virant, in his previous mandate in 2007, coordinated the amendment of the law on the public sector's salary system with the unions, he managed to bring the 25 members into line with the 32 members, which he proposed to the then majority for confirmation. Seven were uncoordinated, including the one that significantly intervened in the rights of employees, that is, the work-life allowance, which fell from 0.5 to 0.33%. However, he had professional arguments for such a reduction because the basis had increased, etc. The unions, of course, in a similar way, as they object today, objected to such an arrangement because it was a reduction in volume, but the ruling coalition, then your majority in Parliament, is a solution because it was argued, of course confirmed and today proved to be the right one. But the social dialogue was broken. There was no agreement with the unions, and in this case the expert arguments were on your side. And I will move on now, why we believe that in this proposed arrangement, where we have not reached consensus with the unions, there are professional arguments for different arrangements for a positional supplement on our side. We've done a thorough analysis. A positional allowance as defined in the Public Sector Wages Scheme Act, paragraph 24, which stated that the positional allowance is that part of the salary belonging to a public official, etc., who exercises powers in the management, coordination and execution of works, i.e. the evaluation of these management works – is a matter of coordination and management – is not included in the basic salary of this job, which an individual performs, is called or functions. The amount of this positional supplement has thus far been at least 5 % of the basic salary and not more than 20 %, etc. When we analyzed, evaluated the new salary system, we found that because of the fact that those public servants who have a positional allowance were included in their position, if you want, directors, chiefs, those who are listed in Pay Group B as attachments to this law were included in these pay grade before public servants, officials, negotiated for their positions. In the implementation process of this system, it was found that, due to the level of the positional allowances, staff members who are not the first in the structure of an individual body exceed their salaries of public servants who run internal organisational units. He's thinking about how to solve this problem. They could have gone in two directions. The first is to include, as appropriate, the heads of these departments, i.e. directors classified in Group B. This, of course, means additional public financial consequences, which we are absolutely unable to realise right now. However, the second solution to regulate the proper relationship between the most responsible and less responsible in the structure of each organisation was to reach out to the level of the positional allowance. In order to balance individual behaviours, of course, it was fundamental to consider whether a solution which is not currently in law is justified, but is implemented in a regulation where, under the current regulation, an allowance of 5% also belongs to individual public servants who do not run internal organisational units but, in addition to their work, coordinate the work of at least three public servants. This is an old provision that has shown in the analysis the following: we have done a very thorough analysis and we find that we are spending in the mass of resources, it is an information system for February 2010, that the total value of the allowances paid is between 5% and 20%, both for internal organisational units and for every fourth that coordinates the work of three, almost 2 million, and the bulk is in this 5%. It's a professional question. The analysis showed that the Ministry of Finance's warnings showed that this 5% raise facility was fully used to raise wages if you want to be the most successful in individual structures – in important work. The managers of these measures are simply seeking to improve the position of individual public servants using measures to the extreme, which has been shown to us at the Institute of Progress where excellence in all segments is immeasurable. So, the arrangement that is today, if most will confirm it, will be the following. Appendices ranging from 5% to 12% will be granted to public servants operating internal organisational units. How many jobs such an organisational unit will have to count is a matter of regulation. The expert thinkers, these unions know exactly, are going in the direction that a unit that is already in need of coordination, about 10 individuals, for 8 people, could reach consensus in the coordination process. So, an internal organisational unit with 8 employees or 10, there will be an individual who will coordinate individuals who, of course, have to do their jobs and tasks, only to coordinate these individuals, will get that 5%. It does not seem to us, I do not understand as an intervention in the existing regime, it seems to us to be an improvement, because you know, this silent recognition among employees is already clear. The moment you empower individuals to lead, the situation comes up very quickly to take leadership as a very important function and to do less of their work process than it would have been necessary. But for the leadership of three, I don't think that requires my further argument. We, too, are the only country that, while dealing with better organisation or optimization of business processes, is also dealing with the issue of the size of positional allowances, in terms of reducing labour costs. Mr. Kres, thank you very much today. They have exceeded their opposition attitude because they know that these solutions have been professionally applied to those elements that define the cost of work or the amount of labour costs, but they are not necessarily, as they are today well regulated. Thus, many Member States of the European Union have defined the situational supplements as measures that reduce labour costs. For all countries in this difficult crisis today we ask ourselves only one question: how to find a balance between labour costs on the one hand in the public sector segment and the scope of services we provide free of charge. Because if this scope of services is to be maintained at the level that it is today, it is important to ask whether labour costs, as defined, are justified in all segments. And that is exactly what we were doing when we were dealing with this issue of positional supplements. In short, to conclude, he believes that we were not in line with the unions. Final alignment on the proposed solution, I have to be realistic, we did not expect it. The unions represent the existing positions of their employees, here I understand them very much, but the professional arguments, in my opinion, speak in favour of the proposed solution and also have little bearing on the position of the individual public servant who today has this supplement. The task of the management will be to regulate the organisation in accordance with this new arrangement in such a way as to ensure that the public finances are sustainable and that those who lead will also be properly rewarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to report to the debate. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u52	I must say that once again the ruling coalition is negatively surprised when the issue of political culture is raised. There's nothing more cocky than playing partner trust in some process. That is exactly what you did when you played the confidence of the social partners in that part, specifically in this article that we are talking about right now. And this is a prediction of how you will act in all future cases, in all legislation, and today it is a test. I have too much appreciation for the Minister-General to believe that she honestly thinks what she said, because things are only a little too transparent. I am sorry that she is running out of arguments and has fallen for what I had warned her earlier that she could not bear serious thought when she began: "Yes, if we went into the whole reform of the pay system, as it was adopted, we would need," I quote, "EUR 450 million." Well, that's nice, but we're probably not going to see these reforms anyway. But what's essential is that you've already spent twice as much as 800 million euros in your first rebalancing, and no one can even tell you where that money went. And now with your finger you point to another, half the lower amount that wasn't even real, and you think you're convincing. Yeah, it can be "buy" by someone who has no idea about public finances, but who knows the numbers, he has to smile from the heart. But you know what advocacy is when it points out that everything has not been coordinated between the social partners before. It's true what kind of article he would have found that he wasn't. And you can also check when you already have this principle, that every time in the framework of the Group of Members, I have warned that this is not good. And in this same consistency, I will also insist in this mandate. And I'll make it public. But the situation is completely incomparable, because at the time the highest wages were in the history of Slovenia, the increase in wages was the largest. No problem of this kind was open, which is now opening. And that is why social dialogue is more needed today than it was then, but in fact it is much worse. It's not just my opinion. Today, that social dialogue is at the lowest level in the history of independent Slovenia, Mr Semolič also explicitly confirmed and the President of the Free Trade Unions and the President of the Pergam Union, the President of the Independent Union, and the President of the Confederation 90. Everyone at this point is completely in agreement. And that's what's the fundamental problem: you open a social bomb, you just create passions when you don't even respect your own arrangements, and then you finger the other. You know what it's like to defend it if something wasn't right before, but now we have free hands in the five laws that we've already prepared to completely "pull" social dialogue. That's defending that guy that if one of us ran across the street earlier, past the pedestrian crossing, now we can hit the entire school bus. Yes, you can't! You don't have that right, you don't have that legitimacy. This is a run on the short tracks that will take revenge on everyone in Slovenia. For when major social unrest occurs, if, for example, there is a general statement, we will all live worse because you were unable to go through your own ego, through your own arrogance and respect the principles of social dialogue, we will take the time to reach an agreement also in these points that have remained uncoordinated. What's even worse is that you've played that confidence in solutions that have been coordinated. Why did you need this amendment that you accepted? Exactly against the agreement with the union at the meeting of the National Assembly. Before, you didn't have the courage to write it down in marriage, and then you solved it through a coalition. With this, you only needlessly excite people, all the employees. For he who understands what is going on is clear to him that this is not the group that is concerned today. This is a precedent example of how this coalition will deal with all employees in the private sector, in the public sector, everywhere, where it will be able to deal with some legislation of solutions that are essential for the quality of life of people and ultimately for their safety, as social security is one of the most important elements of the security of every human being. And that's where you fall on the line. Therefore, this exam today can also be a correctional exam: accept our proposal and delete this part from the law. This is a solution in which you have explicitly played the social partners. This must not be an example that you will follow in any matter, but, unfortunately, according to your words, this is the case. The savings themselves, once again, are really negligible in these stories. That's not even what this is about. It is also a matter of values and a question of working methods. But if we are about what and if I am about what, of course I am firmly convinced, then I firmly believe that social dialogue and social partnership are important values that are worth respecting because they contribute to the peaceful regulation of problems in society, contribute to greater economic performance and are therefore worth all the effort to keep them alive. And it would be good if you listened to those words, because I am afraid that the situation in Slovenia could become uncontrollable. Some of this can be surmised now, but I don't understand – is this your goal, is this what you want, is a desire for greater repression, so that you can exercise your authority more easily? However, if you want to promote a higher quality of people, you should at least take this step today and delete this article and restore social dialogue. Not just about this law, but about all the laws that were now in the National Assembly. No such savings as are discussed in each of these laws are as important as these two values, because they ensure the long-term stability of the system, the long-term security of people, the long-term security of all employees and, if you want, the peace and security of all citizens and citizens. I never understand a government that systematically and deliberately deviates from this, which agrees to such an act, which it explicitly supports, as it is in this particular article, in the act by which this solution was found in the law. This is clearly an example of how you intend to handle union work, but if I am wrong, prove it and delete this article. But this road is wrong. This is a race on the trails, which will end in even greater economic failure, in the crisis, in causing damage, in the discontent of people and in the poorer quality of life than it would be possible in the given situation. And all the responsibility for it is yours alone and yours alone. Listen to these warnings, if not because we give them to the SDS, but because the same warnings with the hand offered also offer all Slovenian trade unions and are in fact for employees, not only in this sector, but for all employees in Slovenia, and it is about economic efficiency. If anyone thinks that under the conditions of some widespread unrest, strike, or anything worse, the unions can cause, they can forge some greater economic success, they are terribly wrong. In particular, it is to mention the word "economic performance" in combination with this government, paradox in itself. We all know that anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the proposed amendment, which has been adopted and which has now been tabled again by the Democratic Party, speaks of a positional supplement. It changes it and regulates it not from 5 to 20, but from 5 to 12%. It foresees that specific solutions to which jobs this positional allowance will apply will be defined by a regulation as a professional question. After all this, dear colleagues and colleagues, we spoke thoroughly with the Minister and her co-workers before we tabled the amendment, and we also spoke thoroughly yesterday, judging whether it is possible and necessary whether it would be right or wrong to accept the amendment that you Democrats have proposed. We have found that there is no reason for us to change the position that was presented by the professional services and the minister when our amendment was tabled, and I believe, at least I, as well as the colleagues involved, much more – that the emphasis should be on not only "more" but also much – the honesty and position that Minister Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs has given us, but on the demagogies that Mr Grims has brought down. I would like to point out that the situation in which social dialogue is taking place in this mandate is certainly much more difficult than it has ever been. Because many issues need to be addressed because the material situation is difficult because the uncertainty and anxiety of the social partners who expect to maintain their position is understandable many times, and they are afraid that there will be too much change. I do not say, but you must understand that this is my discussion, internally within the framework of the coalition, but not at the meeting of the National Assembly, that all the procedures taken by the Government and individual ministers are ideal and that there is never any mistake in our conduct, substantive and procedural. Just claiming with extreme demagogism that there is no social dialogue in Slovenia is purely an untruth. Indeed, a purely extreme falsehood, because in every law that is in the procedure, the Government and the Minister of the Department can show you nothing more, many times more than the 10 interviews and coordinations that have taken place, many things that have been coordinated and, unfortunately, I believe that, unfortunately, the Minister who has coordinated not only us – even the individual solutions that have not been coordinated. On this basis, it has been necessary, and I do not argue that it is always early enough or too late, that a decision has been taken to continue coordination on certain issues, but with regard to the issues identified with it, it stops because there are simply no longer realistic assessments of the possibility of harmonisation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not give up with so much evil, with so much pleasure, with so much falsehood and too much too much to talk about the fact that social dialogue does not run. I agree, however, that if the comments go in the direction that we all feel that it is not enough, that it is not enough and that we are aware that it can be achieved on good substantive grounds, but also on the willingness of all partners involved in it, not just one. And let's say two things very briefly so I don't drag things around. Social Democrats were a party that we were 27. 1. 1998 in the National Assembly provided a decision on the basis of which social dialogue became a decision-making system in the Republic of Slovenia. Before 1998, it wasn't a system. You can also see if what I say is true or not. However, the decision was adopted: "The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in future, indicate in all laws the content of which relates to issues relating to collective agreements or other forms of communication between the social partners, explicitly in the explanation of the law whether an agreement has been reached with the social partners on these issues. However, if it is not achieved, it should indicate how and how long the coordination took place, which are open and non-coordinated issues and which agreed acts would be unilaterally violated by the possible adoption of the law." And ever since then, all governments have made efforts, whether consciously or unwillingly or not, to take this into account as much as possible so that the Slovenian Democratic Party and its Government are so very ideal and take into account this social dialogue to the full, as you explain today, that if every matter is not agreed to to the end, dialogue is not and has failed, it is not true. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, when you were in the previous government mandate, what was going on with the tax reform. Nor has there been consensus on the single tax rate, but it has come out of law because social dialogue has not been achieved and there have been demonstrations. Remember how the Income Act was later passed, the fundamental effect of which was the deterioration of the situation of the social weakest and better position of those who had the highest income. Remember, in particular, the Act on the coordination of transfers between individuals and households, which has frozen the coordination of all social transfers on the basis of your request against the will of the Economic and Social Council for two years. Remember the law on the participation of workers in management, because you have adopted the content of the law in contravention of the views of the Economic and Social Council. Remember the minimum wage law, and it could still be listed. Therefore, gentlemen, count on anyone else to have a memory besides you, not only between Members and Members, but also in the public, and that things show black and white simply make no sense. As far as I am concerned, I recognise that we have extremely difficult material and systemic circumstances in which social dialogue is to be conducted, that we are sometimes too successful with it, that sometimes we are running ahead with decisions that there are no longer realistic possibilities for coordination and that we are going to Parliament. But to claim that the content of the agreement is not dependent on all partners, not just one, that it is not for this great willingness, is simply not possible. And please - it would be right and beneficial for us all if we wanted to speak less hurtfully, but more in order to solve problems, to speak in a different way. In this and other cases, we will continue to work as a coalition, and today, Mr Kontič has pointed to two very important cases, especially the issue of the Labour Relations Act, which will be discussed from the point of the agenda, when we begin to discuss it, the proposal to withdraw it from the agenda, because it is possible to resolve some important issues, particularly on the issue of so-called straw companies and workers' forgiveness, as well as on the issue of discharges, on the basis of an agreement. And I think it is right for us to do this, and we will see if you will then praise us as you are now speaking unilaterally about the absence of social dialogue in the country. I do not believe that this is not an objective display of the situation, but simply to show the situation as black as possible from the political, that I will not say any more reasons. That is why we will be against this amendment and also against the amendment to Article 20. These are two material issues that he wanted to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u55	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We're in the process of amendments, although the debate has somehow gone on, I think it's a little wider, at least this last one. "Ultimate setting up a situation not a government," I have just read about this topic. Madam Minister, I agree with you and I have no problem with this. But when we come to a situation like this, I have a serious problem, not with you, but with the coalition. Deeply, I believe that the situation in 2007, 2008 was different, that they were better, gross social product was growing, wages were rising – indeed, with significant inflation, but nominally they grew, or according to the domestic saying: people got more. I am also aware of the situation today. And I am sure that in the National Assembly we will have even more stringent laws, significantly worse laws this year. My secretary's nodding me. I believe so. But look what the problem is. In 2007 and 2008, when there were no economic problems and I do not know what, we invited the coalition, then the opposition. And we said that the most important things in this country must be negotiated together. This is labour law, this is tax legislation and so on. Mr Potč, we have met several times on this subject, with many of your fellow Members in Room 110, we have coordinated these laws and, as a government coalition, we have given way to many things. Where you wanted and wanted to enforce a solution. And look, 60% of the laws – Madam Minister, you probably don't know – are then the opposition in the image of the SD, the LDS did not participate in this, that is true, and indeed he was born, supported. "For" was pressed. And this good situation in a situation where it wasn't necessary when people earned more from a month to a month when the number of unemployed went from 100,000 to 60,000, that was the situation. Look at the situation you have today, Minister. I've told you many times that I admire you and that you're one of the best ministers, and don't let them resent my union because I know you're trying because I know you're in an impossible position. You must satisfy everyone with an empty bag as if you were Christ, but you can't, I know you're not doing well! He can't go. In fact, the other part of the government or the government as a whole is the one that brought it into this state, that's problematic. Here, in December 2008, when you entered your term of office, November-December 2008, we were all aware that economic problems were coming. Everybody. At the government we left you a package of laws, such a package of laws, and we said, "Here you go, Mr. Pahor! We believe that this and this should be done," in a situation where we led that government after the elections, when the government cannot function in full terms, to the full extent of its operation. You threw it in the basket, and you said, "We know better. We can do better, we don't need the opposition, we won't cooperate with you." That's what the LDS said, too, your client, I'm sorry. Part of the SD was aware of the gravity of the situation and was quietly in favour, but the most striking part of the coalition said, "No!" And the Prime Minister – nothing. You had your hands tied like you were throwing a bound man to the lion. There's no other way. Then we had two packages of measures, twice as many laws together, and we told you how we could solve this so that your wish, Madam Minister, would be at least enough to satisfy everything. No! No! At the night session, you refused, and you continued to say, "We know better." Yes, ladies and gentlemen, and then it's past the year and a half, and I hear the President of the Government on the last questions he's asked to join the opposition. Yeah, great! Because we offered cooperation in February 2009, and we said, "We will help you, hard times are coming, it will be bad in this country, we will step together for God's sake and pull this country out of the crisis!" We haven't received an answer either, nor have you responded since February 2009. Then you hear the Prime Minister say, "I invite the opposition to cooperate." Yeah, because we offered to cooperate, because we asked you to, so you said no. Here's the problem, Minister, that makes this frog all the more empty and given that it's all the more empty, I understand you and all your dilemmas about whether you'll stay or not. I would never want your job, I'll tell you honestly, because you're suffering there; I believe they are. But it's not your fault, it's your fault, it's the government that doesn't hear from the ear for a year and a half, it's called greater economic growth, the key is just here and nowhere else. Higher economic growth will bring more money into the state budget and also into the part of the state budget that you are dealing with. But that's the problem with this country, the problem is in the one mind of the coalition, in the ignorance of the coalition, because we offered you, and you won't. A single tax rate that was discussed a little earlier. I'm sorry, I've sat at every government meeting since 2005, and we've never had any law to call it a single tax rate. Never! I don't know where you saw him. It is true, however, that there was a working group that studied how Slovaks, how they date with a single tax rate. That's right. Never come to the government like that, never. At least so that such a law could come to Parliament at any time. Because then I would have coordinated it with you, Mr Potch, and I didn't, because we already had a partnership for development. Look what happened. 40,000 people came to demonstrate, in the snow and in the rain. You're damn lucky to be coming to the National Assembly with laws that aren't harmonised, but I know you can't sometimes, I know, I agree, because we haven't all agreed. It has to be admitted. But you come with a package of laws, and we hear a few ten people protesting in front of Parliament. Okay. But you're going to bring the country into a situation where there's not gonna be a few ten people and when we're going to have to let the country go to some late-night session fast for 20% of our salary to get us out of this crisis. But you know better. And we have offered you cooperation at the same time as today. Neither did the last call of the Prime Minister remain deaf on our part, nor did we become deaf. On your part, except for the President of the Government, no one did anything after his concert to cooperate with the opposition. On the same day, we have said that of course we are ready, answer the letter of February 2009, because we have offered you a solution, Madam Minister, for this country, for your part, which you are dealing with, which is extremely important, it is clear if we are looking politically. You need to step in together and not be smart. And the opposition is also asking for a proposal. Not that everything that SDS says is thrown into the trash bin. Last but not least, this SDS has successfully led the country for the last four years, and last but not least, that government has successfully led the European Union. So, don't say they're just assholes who don't know anything, and they need to be thrown in a basket. We need to come to you, as I did, Mr Potsch, to coordinate things with you. And we're gonna press "for" together. But on my side of this "yes" will not be when the ship is already underwater, but this ship is already underwater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u57	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am pleased that today Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs has received so much praise, so much understanding, and I must say that frankly. I think that what the opposition representatives are saying is very sincere, because it probably deserves this praise. If we go back to the content, the amendment that we have before us and in which we've actually talked about everything, but that's just the way it is. We won't support him. And I'm going to explain this on two things. Mainly because of the content, the content of which the Minister talked about and in detail presented to us what this amendment represents, and which could actually be said gravely, it is such that in the system of Slovenian public servants the management allowance is actually received, and not in such small quantities, by people for the management of three persons. This value is expected to be over 2 million per year for the supplement that people receive to lead three people. I think that this is a reasonable solution, and I must say that at this point I am even interested in whether the solution has been coordinated in social dialogue, because if the social partners have not been able to reasonably assess at this point what such a management allowance means, in fact, that it is probably more of an increase in wages for almost all public employees at some point. I think it's simply absurd for anyone to get an allowance for what three people are underneath. As far as social dialogue is concerned, I do not think that the Minister has ever hidden, has never kept a secret that she has not been harmonised in all aspects of the law. I think that in these times we will have to get used to it and I am sure that in all points, all articles, none of the so-called reforms of crisis laws will likely come and lead to the National Assembly. As we've seen, with a historical view. Virant's marriage was not harmonised at the time, and I will say, it is indeed somewhat perverse to speak today and to stress social dialogue at that time. Virant's social dialogue, that was a divinity. It was playing, it was actually toying with it and just to be out of some bag of money that he had imagined; and then that bag was three times bigger than what they had planned at the beginning, to give more to and to whom less. That's all they fought about was who gets more and who gets less. That is why I say that this social dialogue can also be exhausting because people rarely get along with each other, who deserves more and who does less. In this sense, he was also a pain in the ass, but he certainly wasn't bothered in the sense that we have before us today, which Minister Krebs received when he actually has to convince the unions to do less, much less, because otherwise we will experience a collapse of public finances. It seems to me that today, listening to some of the Levites from the successors of the government, or from the accomplices of the government of Janez Janša, whom I think they do not know and can't read and read to us some arrogance, but not a shred of self-criticism or a shred of self-criticism. I haven't heard from this esteemed assembly, not once, to say, but maybe we've moved it a little bit here, but maybe this isn't a good solution, but maybe this wasn't good for us either. And this was the government, and I'm going to say again, who was actually very lucky. In the most flowering times, the years of fat cows — hardly any problem, the world in the conjuncture, nowhere to recession, nowhere to spar, in fact, you were only arguing about paraphrasing, again giving someone more where to spend and who gets more. And so we could take free kindergartens in that period, we were very friendly to people, we could take solutions in terms of student diet, we increased the mass of wage funds in the public sector to extreme altitudes, and today we were so unfair and talk about how successful we were, because we were only lucky and such a period, but unfortunately, fellows dear, you left empty barns, you left nothing to leave behind that farmer who was reasonable to leave the one who would inherit it. Even more! You left us a bunch of things that you promised and accepted just before the elections in a substantive sense, and then this coalition had to provide money for that electoral drink that was spent. That's why it seems to me that if we are accused of arrogance, and then I can tell you whether I want to, I'll say, a little more self-criticism, a little more self-criticism, and really a little bit of being real and honest about these things. I claim that it is easy, and also yesterday we were able to monitor a number of projections that have now been made by the most eminent economic offices, what trends have already started in Slovenia in some way with individual issues when we should be making extensions, and this every reasonable person knows that when you're doing well, when it's okay, you should not spend everything else going through, but also something to save for the bad times. But these self-criticians, I doubt that we will receive it at any time or if the opposition, especially those who were part of Mr Janša's government, have succeeded because it is easy for them to sit alone in peace today in the opposition and in some way monitor what is happening to us both in the world and at home, is what I think is wrong. I would also like to say that I agree with the social dialogue. I too think, and our party, that it is necessary to invest enormous amounts of energy in social dialogue. In doing so, I believe that Minister Krebs's social dialogue is leading the best possible way in view of the situation he is in. However, we have social dialogue in many dialogues; one is dialogue with public servants, we have dialogue with trade unions and similar employers. Here it seems to me that it will simply be necessary to put in a lot of energy, but we also have to be realistic in some way. Up to some points, social dialogue will be possible, even in time dimensions, and at some point things will probably break down and a decision will also have to be taken that will not be agreed upon in social dialogue, but this must be when everything is exhausted and, in fact, sometimes I lack more reasonableness on both sides, including on the union. I think a lot of people have lost their compass and they just don't know what we're in. However, I must say that what I think is important to me today is to stress again, as I said yesterday, when we discussed the future budget for next year, and the anti-crisis measures, and the reforms. I agree with those who believe that the matter we are taking at this time is not sufficiently balanced in that the same watts would apply to all layers of society and that even those anomalies that have the worst problems or that are in the most critical situation would not cause them less bad will. I am sure that certain layers in this society have not yet felt the crisis, or otherwise. I expect that in the coalition we will be able and also take certain steps in this direction to bring in or draw up laws that may be extremely difficult, but the greatest anomalies we see at this time, and those problems that are, at the same time, equal in terms of who has more, will also contribute more to the crisis – they will hit all layers in this society. Here I think that this government, our coalition, has not been successful, we can be self-critical, something of which was, we have drawn up the so-called Trofenic law, where we have limited wages in leading people in the public sector or in companies that are majority-owned by the state, we have taxed certain enormously high rewards for the administration and management of businesses. I think that there is still a lot to be done here on the income side, on tax matters and the like, because what causes the most resistance in people is simple when they feel injustice when they feel that only they are expected to tighten the belt, while some layers of society do not feel it. I hope we can find some sense here. I am also pleased with some of the moves that we have already been able to make at this meeting, for example, with regard to the law on working relations, which is not in fact as necessary, because certain things need to be upgraded, in fact, to solve on one side of the issue of severance, but at the same time in this law we can also solve the problem of straw companies, for which we need to find solutions, because such anomalies, which are used and used and searched for some systemic gaps by completely overturned people, managers or whatever they are, some of the biggest varieties – it is simply necessary to stop it. I am sure and will demand that this part of the story on the table in September as well, and at the same time we will accept a solution for one of the anomalies, which in such times of crisis will break out even more tragically painfully. We will not support this amendment without any sense of bad conscience, not because it has not been socially coordinated, but because, even if it has not been coordinated, we simply feel that leadership supplements or supplements for leading three people can really be said: adjective intelligence!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u59	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 9? Check-in is on. Mr. Bogdan Chappich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I didn't intend to discuss this, not because I thought that there was no need for any change in the Public Sector Wage System Act, even because of the law that was passed and enforced. He has been preparing for a long time, in September 2008, as soon as the first month after its entry into force, he has experienced a lot of criticism, mainly because he has failed to meet all expectations and has not eliminated all the imbalances within it and has actually rewarded some more than others and thus caused even greater differences than they were in the old system. In fact, I was encouraged by Mr Gorenak's debate when he spoke about the proposals that the current opposition has made to this government to come out of the crisis more quickly, as well as the obviouss about the dialogue between the opposition and the position and also the social dialogue. It is true, they have proposed a lot of laws, they have also been named, and Mr Gorenak has shown a bunch of papers, among them, I believe, which of the laws also called copy-paste, because we have considered their proposals of the same laws two or three times, and they have not gone through the National Assembly or through Parliament. True, there were many solutions, but let us see what solutions they were. Solutions that increased the debt that reduced the revenue to the budget, which reduced the taxes that reduced the contributions and, on the other hand, extended certain rights. None of these packages had any calculation that would make it clear what was in perspective. When we did this calculation, and when we looked at these things, we found that for a billion, 600 million, this deficit is increasing. This was the measure they proposed at the time. The second part of the measures proposed as anti-crisis measures was the mega-amendments when adopting the 2010 and 2011 budget and now the mega-amendment at the rebalancing stage. It was a seemingly good move, to reduce the cost by 600, 700 million, to achieve the target of 3% of GDP deficits, in which areas - in the areas of wages, personal income. This is a social dialogue. And neither the unions nor anyone else resisted it, even though by adopting this 1 January 2010 or now, in August, they cut wages by 25 to 30 and perhaps by a further percentage. In a court that is not responsible, which they think is bad, it would be more than 35% reduction in personal income, without dialogue. Because there are only two options: whether we pay two more months and no more for the next three months, or whether we distribute the money that would remain in the budget until the end of the year. This was the social dialogue that was actually proposed through this. This government, not the one who proposed, assumes responsibility for this. They'd accept my amendment. This government has made a different decision. She has decided that some things need to be systematically changed. Today we have one of the things where we try to coordinate things step by step. It is not easy to coordinate, especially those things that mean taking away something that has already been approved by the law and the contract and the annexes in the contract. Where did we get these annexes to the contracts and this stuff? From the Ministry of Public Administration, led by Dr. Virant. From there we received all those who were in the public service and we are still in the public service, this contract, just the name and surname and the EMHO number and the address we entered, everything else has already been calculated in an office. When, in what way, it will take place under the assumption that it was in force in 2007 and 2008. We're in a different situation today. GDP is declining. It is no longer growing, it is shrinking and, of course, these things need to be carefully planned. It is therefore necessary to cut into certain rights, some rights which I firmly believe have already been given too wide a disregarding relationship in 2008. Already with that law, and I know him very well, because of course I participated in many discussions, they did not eliminate the injustices that occurred at the time and are still in the military, the police, and where the relationship between the salaries of soldiers, policemen and so on in different jobs is not harmonised. They're all soldiers, they're all cops, no matter where they work, how they work and what things they're on. It was also possible to hear at the last exercise at Poček, where we talked to soldiers preparing to go to international missions, and they say that their wages, when they work in the rain, on the ground and these things, are actually completely comparable to those in the barracks, offices, whatever the problems, but this is the law adopted by the previous government, which, of course, did not end and these anomalies will have to be eliminated in the future. This is the problem of this law and it would probably be best to change the whole law and start over, but we know how difficult it is and how it was, because we have coordinated this law for several years and several things. And another is when we talk about some of the costs and things. This government has, of course, decided to increase public debt at the expense of social rights as well as the protection of people who, unfortunately, lost their jobs in 2009, 2010. He's getting bigger. He's getting bigger. But because the number of unemployed has also increased, even because these people had to be compensated, they belong to them and, of course, because of some other things. By not saying that this government does not care about social dialogue and that it does not care about people living in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u61	Mr. Magg has the word. Excuse me, Dr. Gorenak, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Here's the problem, Mr. Chappich, because you challenged me to bring down the gross social product, here's the point of all the problems, so there's no money. Something has to be done to make it grow. At the time of the previous government, it was 6, 7, Germany 3. At the time of this government is in Germany minus 4, in Slovenia almost minus 8, here is the essence of the problem. Here's the problem, and that's it. That's one. And secondly, when you were talking about taking care of social welfare and so on. We are just as different here as we are in Europe from Hungary, Czech Republic, Germany, everywhere you will see the same story. The left political options, which are yours, are insisted on social, social, social, social and social. Other political options build on something else, first create and then share. There's another problem when you said we gave a whole bunch of laws that had financial implications. Mr. Chappich, can you see if you've given me so much that we've given a whole bunch of laws, [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] which had financial implications. You know, that's right, 1% down, I'll say, in a parable, taxes don't mean 1% minus in the budget, but it could mean plus in the budget, because companies will be hiring and there will be no unemployed. This is the logic that is completely understandable to me and probably to you from your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u63	Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I also support social dialogue when it comes to such important things as wages, but not that some within social dialogue are willing to understand and accept denial in times of financial and economic crisis, while others are not. I've talked to a lot of people working in health care, in education, including the workers, and so on, and they said, yes, it's a crisis, and it's probably going to be tough for a while. But first, we need to pick up those who have more than 400, 500 euros a month. In this sense, this amendment cannot be supported because it is against those who have more to take away something small at a time when there is no place to take it and when the country has to take a large loan on the international financial market in order to preserve the social state and provide bread to the poorest in that country. It is not possible to encourage economic growth through the finger and through the night, because if this could be done to this government, which is criticised on this subject, then we can estimate that they are stupid, stupid all governments in Europe that fail to do so, but they are far richer countries than we are. At a time of relative prosperity, we had conditions in which wages could be slightly repaired, some economies had large profits, wages were more or less stagnant, but this government did everything to raise the minimum wage when there were no places to go, for 150 euros. Interestingly, these unions were somehow blackmailed at a time of crisis, when there were more opportunities for this, there were no large forecasts of gathering on markets and roads and streets and there were no threats with a general statement and with unrest that could develop in situations that would be uncontrollable. I am sure that even this is what some want to happen, so that they can then appear as saviors who, with a magic wand overnight, will ensure high economic growth, raise wages and again share blindly, instead of saving surpluses created for those who survive the next elections. When it comes to taking state credits, the opposition is very much attacking the authorities to overindebt the country. But if it does not, of course it is not possible to save the social state. I think at this point in time and in these times it was necessary for us to be in debt. It is worse if we require further debt to keep no situation from getting worse, not to the one who will not be hungry for it, but to the international fund, for example, set us a condition such as that of Serbia – I read in the newspaper – unless they reduce the number of municipalities by 100 or something like that, the credit will not be from the international money fund. And as far as I'm concerned, they did it, or there wouldn't be any money. I am curious if you would support the fact that 100 small municipalities are abolished, that we will not spend too much money on them, even because of the logistics that costs something to keep more resources for development, for the poor, for the preservation of all that the state has to finance. To understand the potential social unrest in this way – and then the matter will be resolved – is completely mistaken in my opinion. If anyone thinks that social unrest and the general strike will make it possible for no situation to worsen during the crisis, then I don't know why they would wait for the fall. But I am confident that such methods as the destruction of public order and peace and unrest cannot produce new values for our situation not to get worse. Only by working and creating a new value will we get rid of and by giving up part of our standard in times of crisis to get out of it. There's no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u65	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'm going to say that I support these amendments and the next three, because then I'm not going to make any more calls. Of course, I agree with all those who say that the situation is different today. Of course they are, and they're very different. And given that some others have taken the right and have also commented back, and I will take the same. I would like to remind you that in December 2004, when the former government took power, it was no longer for teachers to pay. I hope you know that and that you have not forgotten that it was necessary to testify for the December salaries of teachers according to a budget which, of course, had been adopted long ago. This was the beginning of the previous government. The second thing, of course, in the previous term, when we had 7% and 8% of economic growth in Europe was perhaps 2 to 3%, we and also in Parliament, especially from certain people, continued to hear, this morning the meeting with poverty ended with poverty. Poverty has never been talked about so much before, not on the street or here in this House, as in that period from 2004 to 2008. But the biggest poverty at the time was 7%, 8% of economic growth. And it was social dialogue, and the previous government also invited the opposition back then, the current ruling option that for those most important laws, it was strategic laws for the state that you were aware of them before the legislation came to Parliament, that you could make comments, participate in drafting and, where it did not go together, even what kind of law did not come into Parliament at all. I hope you haven't forgotten that. But it was often so that, of course, you could then mine legislation because you were familiar with it. Today, of course, the situation is different, you have not yet invited the opposition to cooperate, even more, the opposition has proposed measures that you have strongly, non-chalantly rejected if they are imperfect, inadequate, that the government is preparing better, and we have not yet experienced those government measures. And look at the fragment, after eighteen months, the Prime Minister of the Government offered to cooperate with the opposition. But we have done this a long time ago, even in this mandate we have offered ourselves because we have proposed legislation. But, of course, this Pahoreva is a public statement. And look, nowadays the public sector certainly has its rights. They're also legal in marriage. Hold it! These rights were created, as you say, in the time of fat cows. Hold it! But, see if there is a time of fat cows, or does the public sector not have the right to receive any of this? And those rights were created at that time. But who should have rights if not citizens and citizens? The public sector is also citizens and citizens. And you say, then you gave free lunch to the students and free kindergarten. Yes, of course, because citizens and citizens have created this period of fat cows. They contributed to the country's success in having 7%, 8% economic growth. Then who's supposed to get that money? Tycoons? A tycoon, perhaps? Probably not. And the public sector was given certain rights and it was right that we all shared fate, as you say, of fat cows. Everyone, including the public sector! And look, today, of course, when the situation is different, because we do not claim to be different, but today we probably all have to share that fate again. And not today, you've been giving, I don't know what kind of justice we have to take now. At the time we had a lot of money, we all had something out of it, not just a handful of people, as it seems that today, when only friends from the minister get just as crazy as 20 million euros in renting one building, I don't say anything else, because my colleagues will say something. We all have to share the same thing. Yes, a respected colleague from SD, the minister's friend will receive 20 million euros of hazing for the building. So we understand each other. And by the way, when you mentioned the single tax rate so many times, not from the minister who's here to make it clear that there will be no mistake. I have to make that clear. When you were talking about a single tax rate, the single tax rate never came into law. The government was talking about her. And what happened? A union strike, preventive, against a single tax rate that has not yet been established. Preventive strike. I'm asking you nicely, but at the time, you didn't protest that strikes couldn't solve things, so we had 7 to 8% economic growth. Remember that. Likewise today, the same rules do not apply or were not the same rules at the time. That's the problem. And today, of course, is a different situation. But today we're not reducing the number of unemployed, but we're increasing them, again we have 100,000 plus another 30,000 students who have enrolled in another college so they won't be on the road to have student status. It's actually a condition. More than 100,000 are unemployed. And worse still, today is a different situation when this government deals with itself. After one month we are looking for a new minister or two months when the coalition, instead of talking about actual problems, is meeting and dealing with itself, whether this minister will resign or have already resigned, who will replace him, what are the conditions in the coalition, instead of what is the situation in Slovenia. Yeah. The other thing is. It's a different situation. You're ignoring the opposition. We have invited you to join us in the previous term and you have accepted, at least for the most part. That's positive. And you were there, you were informed of important laws. And you're ignoring it. Two ministers in this government said if the opposition cooperated, they would access it. I hope you know that. Indeed, the situation is very different. And when you talk so much about SDS proposals that were so different, you say negative. The fact is, in the previous mandate, the SDS was the largest party in the then government, it is now in opposition, and that government has successfully led Slovenia, and it has successfully led the European Union. And another case that has already been mentioned ten times will have to be said a hundred times, in the previous mandate, Europe has progressed two to three percent, Slovenia 7 to 8. At this time, Europe has no recession, it has no recession, and Slovenia still has it. Does that tell you anything? It is said, as something has been added to Slovenia at the time, in a positive sense, it is added today, but in the negative that Slovenia is still in recession and Europe is no longer. And don't think about it when you're so casually rejecting all the suggestions we give you in the SDS that you're the only one who knows something. We went to the same schools. We went to the same schools. They were like that or different. They were the same. And that's why it wasn't just you who picked up the knowledge, but that knowledge that was available, that's probably what we got back then. And in the previous term, if every branch wasn't in line with the unions and the partners, then everything was wrong. Everything was wrong. Of course, today is different. The situation is different, too. However, you must ask yourself if you did not exaggerate a little in the previous term. And all of these rights, which are enshrined in this Public Sector Act, have also helped you, because if they were not, then the strike was announced. That's what you've helped do. Ask yourself how much you helped when you kept talking about poverty and things like that. Today, of course, that came back to you like a boomerang. And let this be a lesson for all of us, not just for you to understand. And the whole fire was in the roof if the last branch wasn't aligned. You have also demanded that the public sector must have more rights in the previous mandate, it has received them, but today, of course, you are going wrong because the situations are different. I'll tell you where the next set is today. It is true that this sector led by this minister, which we are dealing with today, can be said to be trying, there is no dilemma, there is no work. She is probably one of those few ministers and ministers who work in the government and also talk to social partners, not just like that, because some really work in Pishmewuh and some don't even have a clue. So I wouldn't give you cases from a meeting yesterday when the minister had no idea what he was talking about. And there's a lot of them. You said we let go of empty barns. The stables were, indeed, empty, but in the sense that Slovenia was not in charge. Slovenia was the second least indebted country in the EU. Today, after a year and a half, we are already one of the most indebted countries in Europe. Not the most, but one of the most indebted, and that is the essential difference between the previous government and the present. In the previous term, we have invited you to work together to solve the most difficult problems, today at this time of this government, which claims to be able to rule better, of course, the opposition is not at all counted. Two ministers of this government, at least I know of two, said if the opposition cooperated, then they would step down. I'm sure it would be better if you stepped down, because, well, you run the sector like you run it. In this context, it is also necessary to look at this legislation as it is. During the period of fat cows, the public sector also had the right to share what it had to do with itself, to share something more than what the Slovenian society had created. At this time, we must all share again what we do not have, which we do not have and, of course, we must deal with matters in real terms and for all equally. Of course, I support these amendments, as I mentioned, that I will no longer speak later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u67	Madam Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Petan, now on the average to say that the opposition is being ignored, I cannot agree to this. All the measures that you have proposed, at least in our ministry, have been carefully studied and there is not one in your set and would not be in our set. Let me get this over with. In short, everyone's thinking is welcome and there has never been any ignorance of your actions, and we have also discussed here in the course of the action at the point of agreement that things need to be done. Don't be invited to participate. See, when preparing the draft amendments to the governing legislation, the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, I have not only invited you, I have asked that you are members of the working group, because it is a matter that touches all political parties and is very insignificant to whom they belong, I have repeatedly addressed and asked for admission to explain a story that is such that coordination is required. So black, I want to say, as you might want to show, I hope it's not. This problem with these fat cows and the public sector, of course, has one drawback. Since in 2008, when this crisis had not yet taken place with such a view as it immediately appeared at the end of the year, the rights were agreed, but not realized, this is the problem. If, at the time of the fat cows, as you have said, in the public sector, which has actually for four years failed to reconcile wages to half of inflation and has resulted in a fund, if it were designed, some 240 million euros and the removal of internal imbalances between groups would be real, if I say so, and when the cows were still fat. A major problem that really causes us a difficult social dialogue is that the realization of these rights was postponed in 2009 and 2010, second, third and fourth quarters. Therefore, we should ensure that wages rise if I consider that 2008 was still fat, in the next crisis years, 350 times 100 were already paid in 2008. So that's a big problem. And cooperation and your thinking that the public sector unions here must show understanding for the failure to complete wage reform in these times of crisis, although this is extremely unpleasant for people, people have it on paper, have it on their payrolls, the expectations they rightly hope for because the government, the government, has signed an agreement with them to deserve it. That's why the grip is so much bigger. That is why I fully agree with you that there is a need for negotiation and coordination and also for your understanding. That is why I said today that I appreciate the attitude of the Slovenian People's Party, which, on seeing that it is also working to reduce public spending, expressed my support for these measures because it is aware that public spending, as it is today, is no longer sustainable. We agree, but it would be very nice if, in addition to words, we showed this by actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u69	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We agree again, Minister, indeed. But look what the problem is. That's right, it was agreed then. The SD also pressed for that marriage, which is why it was in favour. At the time of the end of our mandate, we have nevertheless calculated that Slovenia will not have a minus 7 but that Slovenia will have, I will give you, for example, at least an average of Europe. If, however, the Slovenian government, i.e. your government, were to make such moves to hold a gross social product where Poland, which has also been affected by the crisis, was to plus 1.8. You know, today's law wouldn't be here, but at least a quarter of it would be aligned. That is exactly what you say — because there is no money in the jacket, the situation is so. And it makes absolutely no sense to blame who did this, how it happened. Look, as well as the pension reform – I remember well that we spoke during the previous government, and we said, all right, pension reform is not necessary by 2020, let us accept, somewhere in 2015, that we will start after 2015 and continue to implement it. And you have to do it tomorrow, of course, because the frog is empty. But the problem is something else, what Mr Žnidaršič said, which so vehemently launches a rapal and goes away. We're in charge of social services, people had something to eat, like that. Yeah, that's true, but that household, if we compare the country to the household that takes the food loan, that entrepreneur who takes the salary loan, the entrepreneur failed, that second he signed his death warrant. The entrepreneur who takes the credit to extend production will be able to pay the loan. And that's what our country did last year, so it's taking credit to satisfy social welfare. Yeah, well, when they don't give us credit anymore, it'll be over. That's what's problematic. And it just doesn't work. You were also talking about ignorance. I've never felt it on your side, at least not on your side. You're willing to talk, you're willing to propose, you're holding everything you've said. But he doesn't hold the government as a whole. He doesn't hold on to the financial-economic part of it by any means. This is also the essence of your problem below, because the financial-economic part of this country does not work, the jacket is empty and you have a problem. That's the problem. And I'm not surprised, I'll say, but I see another problem. Those ministers who are willing to talk, I also wrote this on my website yesterday, unfortunately they're leaving, but I can see that you're holding onto the hook, too, according to the newspapers. And that's problematic, the problem is that there are still those who are not ready to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u71	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think that the fundamental misunderstanding that we are witnessing in these dialogues is that the Social Democrats believe that with an exit strategy and smart measures, they can expect a way out of the impossible situations that make no one happy, at least as far as Social Democrats are concerned, and they do not want to last. It is politically irresponsible to talk about not being in charge of the most pressing social issues. It is clear to me that in representative democracy the roles between the opposition and the coalition have been divided, but we have all been given a mandate from people to try to regulate public affairs so that as few people as possible will be affected. Therefore, there is no need to expect any special invitation to participate in those marriage proposals that improve things, but smart people will already know how to act. And I see for myself the proposal of the law that we are talking about, right in the context of this – to address those weaknesses in the pay system and to regulate matters where they can be taken. In recent years, social differences in Slovenian society have grown enormously. Therefore, when some were rich, they also needed to be alerted to the poverty of others and to strive to improve the situation for those poor. And as far as Social Democrats are concerned, we are consistent in solving these things. See, the school diet law is set up in this spirit to reduce the rights of those who live easier, and to add to those who leave the rights intact to those who can't. And I could also list for you the measures that are going in this direction. As for social dialogue, which is so much talk. My colleague Potrč quoted the 1998 proposal of the Social Democrats, but you may have overlooked it, even in that proposal, the social dialogue is understood as a process in which some issues can be reconciled, but some issues are known that, unfortunately, despite efforts, they will not be harmonised and neither have they been. We regret those who have not been, but some cannot be, because when someone has to give more than he is willing to give, it is only necessary to count on him not to agree. I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Crane, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! I have to say that today it is really hard to listen to this debate, that I am sick of sitting here in the National Assembly. From fat cows, from who did something, who didn't do something. Come on, let's stop this once and for all, so I can't say otherwise. But not everything we did in the previous government was good, and not everything that this government does is good. And we've done something good and some work this government good, damn it. It is not true that everything the previous government has done well and that everything that this government does is not good, is simply not true, neither theoretically nor practically, but even less statistically. And it's hard for me to listen to it, it's really hard for me to listen here today when it's pulling away from the I don't know where back and forth, what someone did and what no one did. At the time of the rebalancing, we talked about the need to tighten the belt. I think there was a consensus of the majority back then. I have repeatedly pointed out that, whether it suits us or not, the public administration must share the fate of the economy, the fate of the real sector. This real sector has paid a large, high account of the financial and economic crisis and is still paying it. And it would be right, fair, fair and fair, for a part of this account to be paid by the public administration. Because if she does not pay it, the account that will be issued to the economy will be even higher. So, it is responsible of all of us, including our Members, that we, too, take our share of this account and pay it for the benefit of the whole society. A while ago, I was talking to a top-notch in the field of infectology, premiers, he came to me by accident, and the principles are this very topic of wages and supplements, on duty, and I don't know what it's all about. And he himself said that it was probably true that these on-calls were a little over-rewarded and that he himself would personally agree to lower. But he said he was mostly disturbed by the fact that the issue was solved with ultimatum. That's when that half was said. To be willing to give up the part of your watch. I kind of agree with him. There is something else, however, that, for some things, some measures in social dialogue never, and not at that time, there is no consensus. And we're all very well aware of that, especially those who may have ever negotiated with trade unions about salaries, contracts and so on. You know very well that sometimes it's just a point where you can't find consensus. And if we are serious, especially by stopping public spending, which I think is necessary, and as soon as possible, some measures, which may also be "inconvenient", will probably have to be taken in short, and so on. Or, there's another option to raise our hands, let the wagon run as it runs and stops somewhere. He'll stop around where the Greek train stopped, because there's nowhere else to go. But it is the responsibility of all of us Members, regardless of where we come from, or from the left, or from the right, or from any side, that we really should think responsiblely about what to do at this time. And not that when an unpopular action comes, we begin to break in the opposition, if, yes, back and forth, but if it were, it wouldn't be that and so on. We're here where we are. I think we're where we're supposed to start once, for God's sake, we're already looking for some consensus, some conversation, and we're looking for common solutions so we can stop the tree train, or else we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u75	Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, other representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm with my predecessor, my fellow magician. Crane, of course I agree. I have practically written some resistance points on similar content. I, or as the opinion of the parliamentary group, have said that we support this law, so of course we will also support it, and I will personally support it. We were certainly the first to propose a reduction in public spending in the 2009 budget balance at the beginning or spring of last year. Above all, we have said that it is easier, so I believe that there is nothing simple, but that the most effective and also legally feasible is to reduce certain material costs for all budgetary consumers. Since for some things, such as wages, it is certainly necessary to change a number of laws, it is also, of course, necessary to negotiate with the social partners and so on. And, of course, I also agree that it is easier to negotiate when you're only talking about hanging, and it's harder when you have to make some cuts. And now, if this article is public spending, because this article speaks about it - I will go beyond this article as it did outside of this Article 9 or the amendment to Article 9 - if it consists of a grave from wages, from material costs and from investments, we are very critical to the fact that even in this balance that we have adopted a few days ago, the 2010 rebalancing has been severely reduced by some important investments. However, I always argue that not only because of these investments that are closed down, which will be made a few years later, carried out, built up, whatever we say, but mainly because we have affected the economy in this way and the possibility of economic incentives for that part of our lives or our companies, which, of course, pay and fill the end of the budget, pay people and so on. So, of course, I also agree that more needs to be done to help the economy, not just with investments, including with various facilitations and so on. But these are, of course, things that must run in the Government in parallel with the proposals, but, in parallel, as we have said in reducing public spending, we also need to regulate these things that are prepared here. As it is said, I will not support these amendments, which go in the opposite direction from what we stand for. Also, colleagues advocate a reduction in public spending and I do not understand why these things, which try to regulate certain things, would now be returned or not enforced. I just don't get it completely. I will end by supporting these measures, of course, and it will probably take a lot of them before we take the wagon up. Of course also those to promote economic incentives and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u77	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I would again, indeed, like to thank the honourable Members of Parliament, Žerjav and the President. I'll tell you why. The search for a social consensus at the point where measures that are necessary and absolutely unpopular are launched is extremely difficult. Mr Possidy, the leader of the negotiating group reports that, because of this uncoordinated article on positional supplements, the Government has decided to move forward with it. It means they won't negotiate with the government. Although it is legal matter, it is not a subject of the contract, other elements of the remuneration policy are subject to the contract. In fact, in the process of coordination, wage class values should be involved on the basis of the law if the contractual partners and the pressure to maintain the existing situation, which must be changed not only because of the crisis, but also for some other rational reasons, is indeed difficult to optimise business processes. And that keeping the opposition in such a process, that is to say, the reduction of rights, as you express it, is extremely important, because then the social consensus is more easily achieved here. Question and reflection, Mr. Žerjav, a doctor who has told you that it is not good to solve this with an ultimatum. I just want to clarify that the issue of on-calls in 2009 has become extremely current for the department of health at the point when it was found that I am only saying the primary health level, that on-calls, in short for this part, were paid from the health department before the pay reform around 45 million, following the pay reform around 58 million. Let us leave the information that there has been less funding to the health treasury during these crisis years. And it is the Department of Health Insurance itself, the Assembly, and then the Government has also approved the work programme of the Health Insurance Institute in order to urgently seek a more rational regulation of this issue, i.e. on-call payments. I will not repeat this because the explanations are sufficiently clear in the bill and it takes some time for it to be sufficiently explained. But with one feeling that, however, on-calls are less favourable than part-time work, as part-time work is still well paid enough, we were looking for a solution to this issue. And responding to the dilemmas as to whether it is fair for individuals to receive a percentage of this increased reward because they are working in overtime and less favourable working hours, on their basic salary, as they also achieve with positional allowances, allowances for working hours, etc., and perform the same work. This is where a solution was offered by the Ministry of Health, that it is important to establish duty stations, which is the subject of this regulation, and that the additions, for reasons of substantially increased basics and more, will only be halved in less favourable working hours and will still be properly paid on duty. And this solution is, I want to say, the social partners, where also Fides, got in coordination in February 2010. Coordination within the framework of the narrow negotiating group led by Mrs Lidija Apohal Vukovič took place every fourteen days until the end of May, even though the agreement was to take place by 1 May 2010. All with the aim of providing a more appropriate, different solution for the social partners, including Fides. Apart from the arrogant rejection of any consideration of how to deal with this issue more appropriately, a narrower negotiating group has not received another. So there was no ultimatum, the social partners were invited to, of course, one proposal was put on the table, they were invited. If you can find a better solution, please tell her. We have also failed in this process of coordination in two segments. Initially, it was envisaged to coordinate the reduction of this work allowance in less favourable working hours, i.e. work at night, on holidays and on Sunday by 75%. It was still an assessment that this work in combination, since these supplements are combined with the award for overtime, would be enough. In the process of giving in, we came here to 50%, then we gave up on the point of determining on-call jobs in the way that the union also participates in the process. And in a way that the implementation period of 1. 9. 2010 as originally envisaged, extends to 1. 1. 2011. In short, if things happen more than behind closed doors every 14 days, many and many hours, in the end there is no consensus, it does not mean that it is an official arrogance, because with full responsibility I claim that we have negotiated in a manner that comes, if you want, with social dialogue. But it's true that the problem I understand is also on the union side. It is very difficult to agree to a reduction in some of the rights already achieved. This is a problem, as it is also a problem for the Government as a employer. We too need to find balanced solutions. Even when there is a crisis, we cannot fall into the position of an individual employee by absolutely breaking some relationship, some relationship, and so on. The task is difficult enough, and I would like to reiterate and thank you once again for this understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u79	Anybody else want to talk about Article 9? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We're moving on to Article 14. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY — This is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Procurement Agency under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Madam Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government is not only concerned with the issue of labour costs for public servants, although it must. In 2009, when we analyzed the situation in the area of real estate management in the field of public procurement, we came to conclusions which require changes. Not only does this finding, which requires changes, all changes aim to optimise the business processes that are taking place today in the state administration if you want to at the ministries and bodies in the composition and after the analysis of the situation require changes. One such area is public procurement. The objectives of this specialised public law entity, which will centrally manage certain public procurements, are more efficient, cost-effective and transparent public procurement and centralisation, with a view to allowing for the purchase of cheaper goods and services for the functioning of public administrations and public entities. There is an urgent need to be provided from one place, as this is not regulated today, although we have already committed ourselves to the Manchester Declaration in 2005 to carry out comprehensive informationisation of public procurement processes by 2010, and this task has not even begun. This will simplify the procedures for contracting authorities. Above all, we would also like to establish support for those contracting authorities who do not have enough practice to carry out public procurement and deliver the best possible. Therefore, the more important tasks that we have entrusted to the Agency under the regulation that is before you to carry out common public procurement for public administrations are subject to the award. After carrying out public procurements for the authorities of the state administration that go beyond the publication thresholds on the European Community portal. This is a matter of public procurement of higher value, some 276 euro per year worth about 294 million euros. The task of the Agency is also to establish, manage and maintain an information system for the catalogue ordering of state administrations and also local communities, we hope, below, and to conclude framework agreements in this context. It will establish a market information database. This is a matter of executive tasks, including part of the systemic tasks that we think are extremely important and will, according to our assessment, contribute to a more rational spending in the country of administration. In cooperation with the ministries, it will ensure standardisation of type purchases; these are uniform standards of individual items that are ordered today in different qualities for individual national authorities. It will also take care of the implementation of green public procurement, which is also one of the priority guidelines that needs to be carefully and appropriately implemented centrally in the procurement system under common public procurement, 12 of which are now being implemented at the Ministry of Public Administration and green public procurement is already present. What I would like to stress is that this is not a new person of public law who will require additional employees and additional public funds. This is a completely public-funded neutral situation. We even estimate that, in the long term, this process of work, i.e. public procurement, can be carried out with a significantly smaller number of employees than is employed in the state administration today. In view of the objective of optimizing the work processes in the state administration, I propose that you support the novelty, since centralisation will also be an added value in the long term, that is, the possibility of reducing the number of ministries, of course with other centralisations still on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the draft law on the Public Procurement Agency at its 20th meeting, on 30 June 2010, and at its 1st meeting, on 1 July 2010, as the working body of the Government of Slovenia. We had the following materials at our disposal: a proposal for a law published in Rapporteur number 68/10, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure. Amendments to the draft law were tabled for consideration at the home work body by the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and the LDS Member Club of 24. 6. their corrections to Articles 3, 9 and 11 of Article 29 6. 2010, Amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors of 24. 6. 2010 and the separate amendment of the Zares Group with the same date. The State Secretary, Mrs Tržanova, has made an introduction, and I will not repeat this, because we have also listened to the Minister, and the same reasons have been said on the committee. Ms Hrvat Pirnat, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, stated in her presentation that, in the light of her powers, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 9 and 11, and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service were mainly summarised in the Coalition Amendments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Council of State, whose representative said that the draft law was not supported by the Council of State. In the debate, the coalition MPs took the position of the Minister or advocated a solution in the proposed law, while the opposition MPs mainly opposed that such a form of solution was not appropriate in this area. The Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9 and 11, and did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors has indeed become irrelevant to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the bill together. However, the amendment bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Honourable ministers, Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on public procurement agency, because we believe that this area should be regulated in a uniform and transparent manner. In the Republic of Slovenia, we place some 209,000 public contracts a year worth slightly less than €4.5 million, representing about 13% of gross domestic product. A large part of these orders are awarded by the authorities of the state administration, namely the ministries, the bodies in the composition, the government service and the administrative units. Upon the termination of the Public Procurement Office in 2004, certain tasks under the Act on the transfer of the tasks of certain government services to ministries were transferred to the Ministry of Finance and some were abandoned. Each of the direct budgetary users shall award the contract on his own, with the exception of certain common contracts and contracts under the power exercised by the principal Ministry of Public Administration. Some contracts awarded on the basis of powers are to a lesser extent carried out by other national authorities. By common procurement, the country saves between €7 million and €9 million each year, depending on the use of services and the number of contracts awarded. Currently, the total procurement is carried out through 12 contracts in question, with a total estimated contract value of €70 million. Some contracts are also awarded under the mandate mainly in the field of information technology, but to a lesser extent than the common tasks of the public administration. The procurement agency aims to establish a single public procurement environment. The aim of the proposed law is to achieve more efficient, cost-effective and transparent public procurement, centralising public procurement, opening the public procurement market to a wider range of potential bidders, with a view to achieving better quality for the same money, and providing cheaper goods and services for the functioning of the country, including through greater information on processes. At the same time, support is sought for contracting authorities in the award of contracts because contracting authorities themselves do not have sufficient practice and are not sufficiently qualified in the field of procurement procedures. It is necessary to establish an expert environment by transferring good practices at home and abroad and to allow contracting entities access to sample tender documents that must reflect the current market situation. That is why we will also support the proposal of the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings for both ministers with co-workers! Colleagues and colleagues! The statistics cited by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration in their explanation of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency, namely that in Slovenia the value of public contracts represents as low as 13% of gross domestic product, which means that the value of public contracts is approximately EUR 4 and a half billion and that these individual public contracts are as high as EUR 210 000. In fact, a large part of public procurement is awarded by the State Administration. All these are the reasons why public procurement needs to be modernised and also centralised into a single institution that will be more efficient and economical. The government proposes that this is a public procurement agency and we will also support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. With such support, however, it must be said that the new agency does not constitute a new employment in public or state administration, because we are interfering with the area of public administration, but rather with the current services in ministries, offices and wherever they were engaged in public procurement, we are connecting to a common service called an agency. However, the Agency is expected to establish a single procurement environment to make public procurement more efficient, cost-effective and transparent. The objectives that the public agency will have to pursue are: to open the public procurement market to a wider range of potential providers, to achieve better quality and to enable the purchase of cheaper goods and services that we pay through taxpayers' money or all of us. By doing so, we will also meet the two basic requirements that the provider and the contracting authority are now making, namely, to reiterate, accessibility to all providers and not only to the chosen ones and the appropriate price for goods and services that will not be agreed on in cartel terms. If this law achieves these two basic objectives, then a third objective will also be achieved, which is to reduce the costs of public procurement and to obtain cheaper goods and services. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess the need to progressively transfer the powers of public procurement to the agency, as provided for in the law itself. The transfer of specific orders to the Agency, now managed by the Ministry of Defence in the field of classified procurement, should be carefully examined and decided only after the Agency has acted in its full composition and will already have experience in such centralised operation. It is true that we have had and are still having problems with the biggest secret call made by the Ministry of Defence in the purchase of eight-wheelers and all the affairs involved. In doing so, it should be pointed out that investigations into this affair are still ongoing and that the invitation to tender is not being questioned here, but rather the illegal operation and influence of the offices of persons when purchasing 8x8. This could also be the case if a call was made by an agency or anyone else, since it was the influence of professional workers and so-called lobbyists, and the court would have to give a final assessment. However, the MORS can also indicate a good call that has been made recently for the purchase of special vehicles Hummer by the Government because the price for newer, better, more modern vehicles together with all the equipment and transport required is now lower in 2010 than the one in 2001 or 2002. However, it is likely that because of the method of ordering the agency we are now establishing, it would not be possible to carry out such orders, so until the amendment of the Zares Group to the Social Democrats Group, we have reservations. As I have already said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the draft law in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law on the Public Procurement Agency states that the law seeks to establish a single public procurement environment to reduce the dispersion of public procurement in public procurement bodies, thereby increasing efficiency and cost-effectiveness and raising the level of expertise in the work of public authorities. Despite the appearance of popular explanations in explanation and in the proposals for solutions in the proposed law, which seeks to create a new public procurement environment and, of course, to regulate this sensitive area, it is important to stress, however, that in the main solution, this is the establishment of a new public agency, but there is doubt whether this is really the best or the right solution at this point. According to our assessment, such a proposed solution can also be controversial. In recent times, there has been a trend that the Government has been re-establishing new agencies. I think SD's underage is proposing another new agency again. And we need to be aware that when we get a new agency, we need to take into account that we are also going to get a new director, a new board of agencies that will serve the government and the coalition in the first place, because it will set them up. This will, of course, give us new financial burdens. And now we must seriously ask ourselves whether this is the right way or the right solution at a time when anti-crisis measures should be taken and when the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Public Administration are talking about saving in the public sector. Instead of discussing the content of public procurement today, we are discussing the form. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that it would be more appropriate to seek solutions in the context of an already existing situation, such as quality and transparency, with greater prudence in the preparation of public procurement. However, it is likely that public procurement procedures could also be implemented at the same price within the Directorates. There is no doubt that we all agree here today that it is necessary to simplify procurement procedures and ensure transparent procurement through public procurement, but in our view it would be necessary to amend operational programmes first in order to amend the rules governing procurement procedures and to prepare educational programmes for contracting entities. Only undertakings that have settled obligations may participate in public tenders. There is also a need for consistent compliance with the regime on conflicts of interest. This is now regulated by the Law on Integrity and Public Procurement. It is controversial if a company which is owned by a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia participates in public calls by ministries and also companies owned by a majority of the state's direct or indirect ownership. These days we are witnessing the resignation of the Minister for the Economy of Lahovnik for precisely these reasons. Because he pointed out these problems. However, the coalition, as is the case with the old practice, is now pointing to Mr Lakhovnik because he has pointed to the problem. But of course it protects the one who causes the problem. This is actually the wrong world, as one of the colleagues put it. The government of Janez Janša has drafted a new law on public procurement and a law on the revision of public procurement procedures. These innovations have enabled greater simplification and flexibility in the field of public procurement. At the same time, security guards were installed that allowed the State to influence the payment discipline through subscribers. In that area, the Ministry of Finance has done nothing, even though the grounds were enshrined in the laws. In any case, it would also be necessary to organise the ongoing training of contracting authorities in the field of public procurement. At the same time, the question of what will happen to public servants currently engaged in public procurement is also raised. The plan to first move from individual ministries to the new agency is not clear and it is also unclear how business will be in the future. Does the establishment of a new agency actually ensure greater transparency, transparency and quality of implementation in public procurement? It's not guaranteed by this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we therefore believe that the bill under consideration cannot be supported because, in our view, it would have a content, as proposed, resulting in a greater burden on public procurement procedures. In the SDS Group, we stress that it is possible to save more money in the field of public procurement by simplifying public procurement more and ensuring transparent business acquisition, so we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u90	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law on a public procurement agency, and it should be pointed out that the reason for the adoption of this law, which establishes a public procurement agency, is in particular the centralisation of public procurement. Let me start by pointing out that the field of public procurement in Slovenia is extremely decentralised, resulting in many weaknesses. One of the more important objectives of the proposed law is the proper informationisation of public procurement, as already in 2005 the European Union countries committed themselves to providing electronic procurement, but we do not have a comprehensive system in Slovenia in this area. The purpose of establishing a new agency is, in particular, to make public procurement more transparent, more cost-effective and at the same time more efficient and centralised. The purpose of the law is also to typify the procurement of those materials ordered by public administrations, thereby preventing daily or individual purchases in individual departments. The following amendment or objective to a newly established agency is in the standardisation of procurement. It should be pointed out that the way in which the new law provides for it is also known by other countries, where it is found that such a way of work is being paid very much. The Agency's main tasks can be divided into two parts, both implementing and systemic. The first is the implementation of public contracts, while others are the transfer of good practices, the implementation of public procurement, the provision of advice to contracting authorities on important public contracts. In the Zares Group – we have again proposed an amendment, because we believe that we should also transfer defence orders and parts of secret orders to the agency. In the Group of Members, we really want to point out that by establishing a new agency there is no increase in the number of employees in the public sector, as the agency will be fully based on the human resources potential that the country already has. In the Group of Members, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The applicant states in his explanation that he wants to establish a single procurement environment through the law and the procurement agency. The proposed law thus aims to achieve more efficient, cost-effective and transparent public procurement and centralisation of public procurement, to open the public procurement market to a wider range of potential bidders, with a view to achieving better quality for the same money, and to provide cheaper goods and services for the functioning of the country, including through greater information on processes. At the same time, support is sought for contracting authorities in the award of contracts where contracting authorities themselves do not have sufficient practice and are not sufficiently qualified in the field of procurement procedures. We support the stated goals and intentions of the Government in the Slovenian People's Party. But I'd touch two things. The establishment of new agencies has apparently become an obsession in this government. Almost there is no law that would not result in the creation of a new agency. Is inflation of new agencies really the most optimal solution to all problems in these times and in general, we are not the most confident in the Slovenian People's Party. The 2009 study on the economic and business environment, business ethics and informal payments carried out by the Commission to prevent corruption, published in their 2009 report, assesses the area of procurement and public procurement as the most critical or exposed area of corruption. Does this law provide any answer to this discerning problem? In nothing at all, unfortunately, this law does not deal with this issue. There is therefore a danger of getting a large centre, a range of types and ways of corruption. Why did the proposer not include any solutions to prevent the potential corruption of the employees in this agency? We have just passed a law on integrity and the limitation of corruption. In our view, employees of this agency should be subject to the provisions of this law on the control of their assets. If you do not propose such solutions yourself in the Government, we will place them in the legislative procedure of the Slovenian People's Party. As it is said, the law is a good basis for achieving more efficient, economical and transparent public procurement in Slovenia. In the course of its implementation, however, it will also be necessary to accept any additional additions to this area so that we can avoid the remaining and new threats posed by the new regime. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u94	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Public procurement is often the subject of current public debates as one of the business events of the users of public funds, as there are many doubts as to the correctness of the procedure and then the purpose of the use. The fact is that despite the continuous improvement of the legislation in question and the introduction of elements that increase transparency of procedures, the field of public procurement still represents a very fertile ground for non-performing corruption. It is also true that, with such an important share of public procurement, the principle of economy and economy must also be optimised in GDP, with a maximum contribution to the economic and careful use of public funds fed by the tax contributions of all taxpayers. Thus, in other words, saving which is at the heart of all structural reforms that have already or are still expected to achieve, inter alia, certain labour rights, pensions, health rights should also be adequately subordinated to public procurement. Transparency and control and saving or economy in this area are not only in times of crisis, of course, understandable, prudent and only correct. The proposer of this law considers that by establishing an independent procurement body with the function of an advisory, development and enforcement body, the possibility through concentration and centralisation of the open procurement procedures of certain types is to implement the principles mentioned above. At the same time, the Agency's contribution should also be towards greater expertise in the award of public procurement and better information on procedures. The DeSUS Group considers that it is possible and reasonable, in the manner provided for in this proposal of the Act, to achieve the abolition of irregularities in the procedural part of public procurement and certain savings in public financial expenditure, at least in this implementing part, when public procurement relates to common public procurement, procurement by delegation and those which exceed the limits and are to be published in the European Official Journal. In the DeSUS Group, we'll confirm the law. However, although we have some concerns, the first is about the establishment of a number of agencies and other institutions, which are actually transferred to the areas of work of individual ministries' departments and in this context we fear that there is a duplication of tasks and, of course, labour costs. In addition, I would like to add that one of the new ones, I should say to them in the joint nominee of the institutions, is the realisation of the coalition contract. But recently, the DeSUS Group was put before the fact that some of them will only not be established. For example, the Office of Older Persons Secondly, what we would like to draw attention to is not even directly related to this bill, but rather to the basic Public Procurement Act. It was recently amended and, before it came into force well, already began to establish "transports" between suppliers and subcontractors by means of so-called straw companies, which is the key to avoiding responsibility, irritation of public contracts and their imprudentity. Therefore, it will not be possible to overthink how, even within the framework of the draft legislation, such anomalies could be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u96	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law on the public procurement agency establishes a new agency with the aim of carrying out tasks relating to the public procurement system, the task of promoting the development of the public procurement system, the preparation of sample tender documents and the transfer of good practices. All with a view to reducing the dispersion of public procurement in public administration bodies, increasing efficiency and efficiency in public procurement and raising the level of professionalism in the work of public authorities in procurement procedures. The proposed law seeks to ensure greater professional independence in the award of contracts, greater and better information on procedures and cheaper procurement of goods, services and buildings. Those objectives and principles of the bill are undoubtedly welcome, but we have serious concerns in the Slovenian National Party's Group that the new Public Procurement Agency will actually implement them. In addition, it seems to us that the establishment of a new agency, with a significant number of already operating extremely wasteful decisions, is awaiting future wage cuts in the public sector. The fact is that so far public procurement has been carried out in a diversified way, but I am not sure that centralisation is a better decision. The concentration of services in one body, with a high level of resources available to it, may bring even greater problems and abuses. I believe that in Slovenia, the level of development has not yet reached a level so that such an authority can act completely professionally, apolitically and independently of the currently ruling option. The representative of the proposer explains in this respect that the establishment of an agency does not take responsibility for the minister. For all financial resources, as well as the contents of public contracts, should still be under the objective responsibility of the Minister. At the time of the first irregularity, we would probably hear the well-known sentence again that the Minister cannot be responsible for the work of all employees within his department. I am further concerned about the significant deterioration in the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement. The applicant's reply that all the legal options are still open, that these small and medium-sized enterprises will join in joint offers and take part in larger calls does not convince me. Last but not least, why should we even connect when they've been able to perform alone so far? Before the end, I would just like to draw attention to the unclear situation of the implementation of public procurement by municipalities, in particular smaller municipalities. In view of the proposal on public procurement agencies mentioned in the Slovenian National Party's Group, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment and the article, referred to as Article 3 and the amendment to this article, which is reflected in the review. It was submitted by the Zares Group. Does anyone want to discuss the amendment? Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Public procurement is probably all aware of one of the weak points in the public finances system and in the past, in fact, public procurement has received a number of criticisms, not least the affairs that have arisen in this regard. We all know that there are certain estimates of how many public funds are lost, due to lack of transparency, lack of rationality in public procurement, perhaps something else, which I have not mentioned now. We also all know that the great problem is also professionalism, that is, how public procurement is prepared, what calls and documentation are prepared, because it is through this part that it can affect a lot of things. If this is well prepared, then usually the contracts are not a problem to prepare, but anyway, here are the problems. I think the government has taken a big step forward when this matter will be settled in one place from now on. I believe that in many ministers and ministers the matter has come across a rather reserved relationship, if I say so with the kindest of expression, because in a way I understand that each of the ministers actually wants to work this kindergarten alone and have scissors and canvasses in these matters. In fact, it is also one of those levers that ministers sometimes want to influence certain matters and solutions. But I am sure that the solution is good and that the savings that this unification will bring will be significantly greater than anything that concerns us today. Finally, I am convinced that the Agency is only being set up to bring together people from different backgrounds who cover this area and that, of course, they must now be placed in one place and that they are actually working and preparing, leading public procurement. Therefore, I firmly believe that, not only will costs be no more, I think that when they are preparing an organisational structure, even, perhaps, what kind of public servant can be less employed in this area. I hope you will go thinking and systematization in this direction. In this sense, I find it simply unusual or worth considering that one of the ministries should be exempt from this, namely the Ministry of Defence. That is why we have prepared an amendment in the Parliamentary Group, with which we would also like to include the orders led by the Ministry of Defence and are now excluded or not part of this story, a single one that is being built within this new public agency. We see no reason why this ministry should be exceptional and that there should be military orders outside the system. I think that there will also be contracts in some other departments that have certain levels of confidentiality or certain matters that must be sufficient to protect these classified data in relation to organisational, human and technical conditions and the means for such work. I think it would be technically possible to provide these public contracts within the framework of a single public agency. There's no need for exceptions. Not according to our estimate. I think that also and especially the bad experience from the past are those who prove that it is easy in this area to want some, I will say, boys continue to play with guns themselves, continue to choose the thin ones themselves, keep playing with bikes, etc. I see no reason why we should not do these things, of course, as we would like to do within the framework of the funds, within the framework of national programmes, within everything we have and what will be accepted as what we will decide in society that it is necessary to buy in this area. But I don't see any reason why these public contracts can't be run by this single service. Simply, experience is bad, experience from the past. Let the Minister, who knows that he is closely following this debate, forgive me, I do not see any problems as far as the purchases under her ministry are concerned. Even more, I think that Minister Jelusič's is the best defence minister Slovenia has ever had; the most driven, the most committed army, I will say as much as possible is right. But of course another minister will come after her, different, perhaps with some others, I will say, moves that are not said to be as correct as I think and I am absolutely sure that this is not an expression of distrust for a particular person in this position. But I am convinced that we are adopting the law for a longer period and for more ministers, and in this sense I simply do not see any reason why these orders would have some special status in the sense that we actually know that no public procurement of these last fifteen years in these areas has passed without an affair, without reading how, I don't know, something doesn't work, some rifles have been for waste, we have only been restocking for warehouses and to clean them up. In short, I have a simple feeling in this area, and I would also like to say this to the Minister, no one will blame you, Minister, and I know that you are under the pressure of the military and those people who have regulated these things so far, some of them are also suspects of crimes that have sometimes been committed in so-called logistics, and no one will blame you and tell you that you have released something from your ministry, if these public orders are, I will say, in this public agency. People who are defence experts will still be preparing things, but otherwise, so I do not agree with one of the opinions that was said to have been fine in the Patriage. By no means, I was on the committee; the invitation was the one that, I will say, was the one that was prepared by the military profession, that was then the basis for all the further things that unfortunately happened to us there and whose price we are paying. Because I know things very well, and I think that I was also on the committee, where all those meters were studied and found that there were some very unusual criteria and criteria in the preparation of the invitation to tender and how individual matters are evaluated. So I simply think that many doubts in this way would be rejected that this agency would be one guardian and one sitter in these orders, which are always and in all countries controversial. The affair is in Europe as much as you want, the governments fall, the ministers fall. This is an area subject to great money, great corruption, commissions and so on. Those commissions are even a public secret, as many as they must be within the framework. Our patriarchy has become a problem because that commission was significantly greater than the established practice in other countries. At that time, there was a problem when this percentage was over the top because apparently someone was too absorbed and wanted even more or there were too many of those who wanted out of this trough some things to get even for their pockets, their customers and so on. So I think that the amendment is worth considering, I think it would be right to make this debate very in-depth, to find out and I see no reason why this amendment would not be adopted and also military orders to part of the whole system. I really don't know why the army should always be under some different shells, especially if it's such a thing to know what happened to us in the past. That is why I think, I expect this amendment to be adopted, and that you will adapt accordingly later and there will be no great harm.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The Public Procurement Agency Act is part of a generation of laws that allow for a third phase of privatisation. This is perfectly clear and is, as such, a twin with the Capital Investment Management Agency Act. This is a broader programme of this government to allow for the ownership of the remaining public assets. This intention is also fully exposed to the amendment to Article 3 of the Zares Group. Of course, the main purpose of this amendment is to draw attention from corruption and customerism in its own kind by their senior officials, but it is linked to the situation of the President of this party, Mr Golobic, which was so transparently exposed by the renegotiated Minister, Mr Lahovnik. This is a law that promotes and allows predatory instincts in the types of coalition. A law for birds bites, or robberies, from the kind of government coalition. Of course, this amendment is completely on the line. Because the problem of the current minister is obviously not developed enough of this predatory chromosome. It's a barrier, it's an obstacle to coalition, obviously. As a result of this party and a great deal of work, one part of this coalition is no problem of discrediting state-owned ministries, state-of-the-art interests of the Ministry, the Slovenian Army and so on. See, of course, the basic concern of the party is indeed, and that part of the coalition, how to absorb funds that are intended for the defence of the country and which are at present dangerously reduced. This interest has been transparently seen for some time now. Last year, Members from this party, including the President of Parliament, first signed under an amendment which took EUR 33 million to the Ministry of Defence in the rebalancing and wrote down that the funds were intended to buy apartments completed for the benefit of the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr Jankovic. A month ago, Mr Jankovic said on an omise on one of the televisions that he would certainly try to confiscate something else from the defence ministry, to take the money away. This amendment is, of course, the realization of this tendency. With this amendment, you are trying to transfer money to the defence department under the jurisdiction of Mr Jankovic and his interests with the Staff, real estate agents and so on. Mr Jankovic has great interests, his sons and their companies and friendly, connected families have huge interests. They need to be covered. This way you start a fog, talk about it as if even the ministry had been mutilated and so on. I believe in the pride and patriotism of the people of the Ministry. There will always be individuals who deviate from this, who have similar chromosomes to those you have in the Really Party, but we must not destroy the country as a result. If we were to introduce this, this would be significantly more expensive, because here, as you say, it is necessary to protect the security interests of the Republic of Slovenia and to protect classified data to ensure appropriate organisational, human and technical conditions and means. Then it must be possible to control the ODS in any case, and I don't know what it is. This is technically not feasible, and I am convinced that other countries would point to this, almost certainly, because there are no such solutions in European practice and anywhere in this practice, because you are also ordering certain restrictions in this amendment, which exempt them from the subject of public procurement. We are for this country to provide security to citizens and the state and not to be subject to looting, looting interests within the coalition, and that this is nothing more than a distinct predatory interest. It would be more right for a party to withdraw from the coalition, not that their minister, who points to corruption and to customerism and unacceptable behaviour and conflict of interest, must leave. Think about in Zares, what messages do you send to Slovenian space? To overthrow this country, to confiscate everything that can be done just to keep the party's president alive. And to this president of the party for protection and fogging to arrange amendments to every law. You made it into a coalition with the Capital Investment Management Act. I believe you'll be doing them by landing in exactly the dedicated pockets and parking lots. After all, all the exposed affairs have actors, the main actors of your kind, despite the fact that even some of them have been fraternized in the time of the previous government. The actors were members of your customers, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u101	Mr Jerovšek, limit yourself to the content of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u102	Yes, because this content is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u103	You're talking about the content of the amendment, not about what it's all about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u104	I'm talking about the predatory content of the amendment. Can I talk about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u105	You can talk about the contents of the amendment. Not to be accused of having an affair.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u106	People need to be shown what this amendment is all about – how to destroy this country. It was probably a pre-draft of this amendment, and this logic was also a petition. Let's end the army and the propaganda that happened. I'm not in favour of military purchases from this city, but I'm in favour of this country. And the lack of this relationship, which proved most drastic last year through that amendment, how to take 33 million out of the military budget for the Ljubljana mayor and when this year the Ljubljana mayor says he will take some money out of the defence department. Today we see how he imagined it. I warn Ljubljanans and Slovenians that this is an eternal interest and that it is impossible to reconcile it, because some of your kind simply feel that 20%, 30% of the state budget must land in private pockets. And it's on paper prescribed this interest and this kind of policy and this kind of behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. First, she has a replica of Mrs. Irma Pavlinič. And the replica, Mrs. Orzam. Dobi, then Minister Irma Pavlinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that I can say a little more, I'll use it then and apply for the debate. I would like to replicate very quickly only to my colleague Jerovsk that I do not see any looting in this, because the funds will be exactly the same for the public order or within the context of the Ministry's or department's department. Mr. Jerovšek, that's all. Now our former colleague Lahovnik is very much appreciated in your eyes, and I am pleased to say that I have been with him all the time among those who have strongly opposed the increase, or we have advocated the reduction of resources in the field of defence, and the views of the former Minister of Lahovnik are also well known, that Slovenia does not need and you know how many times it has told you in this esteemed assembly, neither that Russian ship, nor some other matters, as our common position with regard to the patriarchs was then, so, unfortunately, you have failed here the Joker with Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u109	Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! We are talking too seriously about the bill and to Mr Jerovšek and others who have expressed your opposition to the solutions proposed, I will try to put forward arguments which could and would be intended to convince you of a different way of thinking in the future. I would also like to say why the scope of public procurement, which, as you have noticed, is even successful, is limited at the time of the delay, and why the proposed solution in the amendment is therefore limited. For the applicant, this is the Government, for the reasons we will explain below, it is problematic and not acceptable. The delays in public procurement, due to the objectives pursued by this centralisation, with the organisation of the central central purchasing authority, are high. When drafting the bill we did not invent some Slovenian special solutions, but we looked at what you want to do to the neighbour, the Republic of Austria, we found that there is a central, central, purchasing body for the authorities of the state administration, but not in a special way, and this is our ambition to kill two flies on one mach. Mr Jerovšek, in 2005, your government signed the Manchester Declaration. With this declaration, the Member States of the European Union have committed themselves to building an electronic procurement system no later than the beginning of 2010 and to establishing the management of all contracts exclusively in electronic form. Since there was no central authority in the Republic of Slovenia to undertake this task, this task was not carried out. That's the first big problem. Another major problem is that common procurements with the power of the Government over the three years they have been implemented, but for the time being only for 12 items worth around 70 million by the Ministry of Public Administration have shown that significant savings can be made in purchasing and spending public funds in such a way. What's wrong with this combination? There is a lack of standardisation of items to be purchased by public authorities for their work in approximately the same quality. Today, we do not know or allow each state authority to feel, conscience, if you want, procure the equipment, material it needs for its work. And back in 2001, the Republic of Austria established a federal procurement agency. It is essential in this model that the concept of these procurements stems from simplifying purchases for users of the means of work and that these purchases are organised through an electronic catalogue around the items of the contracts themselves, so centralised, as this brings synergies. How do you get the tenderers not to be smaller, deprived? When qualified tenderers are called upon to enter into a catalogue, it is, of course, at this agency, to conclude a framework agreement and to place the items of the individual seller in a catalogue, which means that individual public authorities do not need public procurement services because it is possible to obtain typical and important items from this portal for which services are organised today. After reviewing this beautiful system set up by the Agency of the Republic of Austria, we decided, of course, to approach this system in 2011 in view of our smallness. The Agency’s task in 2011 will be to prepare standardised items, i.e. the standards of these items, in cooperation with the ministries. To prepare information support for this catalogue order and to provide this service to all budgetary users in accordance with the example of the Republic of Austria. It's a difficult task. No one's ever done it before. And we have committed ourselves, we have promised, and we know these practices. We imagined that in 2011 we would be entrusting this challenging task to this agency. In 2012 it is expected to launch contracts of higher value, to the extent that I have already stated at the time of the presentation. It's about objects. If you have noticed, there are no classified public contracts among these items. Confidential public procurement is today regulated by a special procedure and moderated by the way that the Government, the Interdepartmental Working Group of the Government, determines whether there are conditions for the individual subject to be defined as a secret order for certain reasons. In 2008, I believe that the Court of Auditors has found that several cases in the field of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior could also be submitted as open public procurement and not secret public procurement. In fact, during this period these open public procurements have increased significantly and, if this is the case, the value, as set out today, above the European threshold, will be carried out by the public agency in the implementation work. These are also items purchased by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior and items of general use which do not have the character of secret military equipment and secret equipment for the Ministry of the Interior. In fact, in the long term, it is not possible to exclude the consideration of a specialised agency to conduct such purchases, but in view of the scope of the tasks which we consider to be extremely large, this moment, for a good traveller to this agency, would nevertheless propose to maintain the scope of public procurement as we now anticipate that the Agency will start implementing them. In view of the fact that everything that will cost this agency will be more than public procurement today, the realisation of the information system will be. This should be built earlier, the Ministry of Public Administration will actually implement this in the framework of its plan to provide information support funds. This will not be an organ in itself, it will be passed on by the co-workers who are currently carrying out and engaged in public procurement in the field ministries today. It is beautifully described and does not claim that there is no telling how many people will start working in a public agency. This central person of public law is similar to that of foreign systems. So there won't be any extra resources here. However, we are confident that because people will specialize in individual tasks, they will certainly be able to work better and more transparently. They will still be under the control of all ministries, if you want, governments as a collective body. However, there is certainly better work to be done, as a dispersed public procurement means that prominent individuals in smaller bodies do not have a rational capacity to carry out the rather complex procedures prescribed under the Public Procurement Act. For this reason, the Government considers that the amendment, as proposed, is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The Secretary of Defense asked for the floor. It is not announced, so I ask, does anyone object to her discussion, or would he give her his word in the government's time? Objection? Then Mr Jerovšek has the replica and the Minister of Defence will not speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u112	Dear Madam Secretary! The solutions you are proposing are good for the regulated country and for a transparently run country. I can't say this about Slovenia right now. He told you, Mr Minister, how with transparency, how he respected his determination of integrity, the fight against corruption in this government. This has been very apparent in these days, and this is why the only thing that is here in this law is that it allows for the centralisation and better implementation of predatory instincts. For, behold, look only upon your own party; opposition and denial of conflicts of interest, and disregarding the rules of integrity, is built into the genes of the parties. And that's not limited to your client. And for that, of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u113	Mr Jerovšek, you asked for a replica. What you're saying right now has nothing to do with the replica. You don't explain your views.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u114	Whose is it? [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u115	You're arguing with the secretary, which is not the content of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u116	Mr. Chairman, I am not remotely guided. Maybe someone else is, maybe the Minister is a little naive sometimes, because she's good, she's conscientious, but I'm not good at reading remote guidance, so, Mr. Potsch, it really isn't. I explain my views, and it's insulting what you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u117	I told you to argue with the secretary, not explain your point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u118	I also have to say that what I was told earlier was that the Joker and I failed. Joker and Lachovnik are not my joker, but you are in today's newspapers with an order, namely Mr Golobič and Mrs Minister, each other, some editors, who are supposed to be editors, have done everything they can to prevent this joker from succeeding, or that this would not work for the transparency of the Slovenian space, as it is far from being seen what has been ordered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I've seen more deadlines for the application before. Please, anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Mr. Anderlich, there was a minister and a replica in between. Now he has the word, Mr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I have problems, Mr Vice-President, when in the National Assembly a coalition does not allow its own minister to speak, but the opposition agrees, but we are far away. But we're on the subject. The subject is an amendment. Make sure that this amendment is stupid, really pure nonsense, which can't be more, I'll tell you on a completely different case, but you'll understand me. Some ten years ago, when I was acting as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we find, under some supervision, that the criminal police have problems. You know what? By paying spies, probably Sova as well as probably military intelligence at the time, because they passed a unique financial law that binds all citizens and binds all institutions. And with such a unique law, you also prescribe to the Intelligence Service, the Owls and the Crime Police, just like everyone else, that "spy" who gets paid by these services should be taxed. Where'd you see a spy like that? [[advertising in the hall]] How? [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, it must be said that then the law was amended with great difficulty in this area, so I am telling you that it is impossible for this confidential, secret order to draw under the same basket. I don't see any reason why we should pull these orders under the same basket, but have some additional checks, and I don't know what it is, because we're probably going to be on some sort of classified order soon enough. In short, the amendment isn't right, it's once one that's not right. But I can see it's only been signed by one party, and I believe it won't be accepted. As far as the agency is concerned, there is something to be said. I've had quite a few problems with this agency on the board, too. Well, if I read the explanations, if I listen to the minister and everything else, it kind of makes sense, it's kind of logical. But generally speaking, it seems to me that it will be very difficult to bring all this together in one place, because individual ministries will still have to have experts in their field. Look, an example. We order passports once every 10 or 15 years, and you must have qualified experts for those passports. And I don't know how someone in the agency is going to be able to handle these passports. It is likely that such an expert will also have to continue to be provided by the internal ministry. I'm not saying those general orders that are what they are, but for some sort of order, it seems to me that this central authority is going to exist, but the ministries will have, just in case, some other employees who will be able to communicate with this agency or to prepare some professional basis, substantive basis, something like that. In short, I have a feeling that they will be kept and that you will be forced to hire new people at the agency sooner or later. I don't see any smart way out, and to make it right, it didn't convince me in any way. And there's something else. It's about, look, it's about removing some responsibility, blurring responsibility if you want. Again, very practical. When a ministry orders something, such as police uniforms, will happen — what? There's going to be something "shut up" at the agency, the hands will run out, the complaints will go away, and the equipment won't go away. And you have a moment, a moment, a moment of security that you have to do today and here, a visit to the Pope or some American president and so on. And the police need some equipment that doesn't belong to a confidential nature. Then what? The Minister of the Interior will say, because that director of the agency is guilty, he'll refer to the regulations, and then they'll cancel the director, and I don't know what. In front of the international public, for example, we will even be embarrassed by some of these security matters. I don't know, it's the Minister who's responsible and responsible. In the field of transport, something similar is done with this transport safety agency. And the traffic minister and the interior minister will avoid it a little, because we have the director of that agency there, and he, please, does not have the mechanisms to do anything, because the police and the Transportation Ministry are doing it anyway. It's not good. The Minister is to be held accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u122	Hello, everyone! Mr Jerovšek could have replaced the writer Karl May if he were still alive. I commend you, because that's how you knit things together with a lively fantasy, Jankovic to put in public orders and everything, you're great. I really agree with a lot of people. I am very sorry that the Minister does not have a word, because it is her area and who else will answer, I cannot. I think that this agency needs to be supported to ensure that there will be no new jobs, they need to hold that experts will gather from individual sources and form this agency. Where special matters are concerned, someone from the Ministry of Defence or Home Affairs will need to be, or I do not know where to get from, who will participate as an expert in a certain public invitation to tender on an official basis. The pooling of these tasks is necessary. Also in the local community, see, in the municipality we combined public contracts for, otherwise it is not comparable to these state-owned, but the renovation of school facilities during the holidays, the painting of floors when you order for 40 classrooms or for 3, the price is different, the conditions are different, the quality can be different and so on. I strongly support the establishment of a public agency, provided that there will be no new employment and so on. However, I must also agree with those who say that this law on public procurement is still very complicated and can be abused. I think that even the Ministry of Defence has not been so much a problem with public procurement, but then the abuse of these tasks that have begun there. This will also be possible in a public agency, so that some security guards here will now be completely fair and 100%, we never have. I propose that we do not accept this third amendment to keep secret orders in the domain of ministries, those which are, however, that we have the possibility of other mechanisms to control the acquisition of these matters, on which no single citizen, or any friend in Europe, or where to know exactly what kind of items, with what quality and what quality our military or police or criminals are equipped with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I understand this law as a search for optimum purchase routes. Even in the economy, optimal purchase routes are often sought, and once the purchase is tried to centralise, then the purchase is tried to decentralise again. These are almost cyclical processes. One director comes in and tries to bring the matter together, another tries to split up, and within this process, optimism is sought in terms of cost reduction. I think that's exactly what this is about in our case. So far, procurement or, rather, procurement has been decentralised. So in my own way, I'm not going to say "caps or fists," by the way. Almost there. From experience — and we all find that — we have not been particularly successful in this area. More. I think we failed the exam in this area, so I won't tell you, we went all the way down the line. That is why I will support the establishment of this agency, although I have a problem with the establishment of various agencies, which is unacceptable at this time, especially with the aim of reducing public consumption, public costs. I do not agree with the fact that there will be no additional costs here. Of course they will. Also, if we hire existing people into this newly established agency, there will be additional costs. If not otherwise, by renting new premises and so on, by purchasing furniture and whatever it takes. But if there's an agency, then my guess is this. We are obliged to change things if we find that they are not good and the public procurement system in Slovenia is not good at national level and they are not well managed. We've been talking about the highway cross for a while. At the time, many were loud about how we overpaid the highway cross by 30%. I personally disagree with this assessment. I think if there was an overpayment, it was much lower. However, the basis of this overpayment, whatever it was, is in public procurement. So the system's obviously not the best. We talked about the patriarchs, we talked about the operating tables, and we could list by evening all the public procurements that were one way or another problematic. I think there's something that needs to be changed. I don't know if this is the optimal solution, what is being proposed today, but things need to be changed in general. Given the importance and the fact that large sums of money go through public contracts, I think it's worth a shot. If it's not better than today, we can change back in time as it is now. I am not taking the matter at all tragically, but in view of all that is happening to us in public procurement, I think it is worth a try and I will personally support this amendment, which is proposed here. Despite all the arguments against which they were listed here, but also in all the areas referred to in this amendment, there are also problems here, and this is a big one. I will not open the subject of the Patriary that has occupied us, Slovenian politics and the whole country for two, three years. Now there will be elections again, there will be some story coming out around this Patriage, and again, instead of the elections, we will talk about patriotism and probably the next state elections, including the Patri. I think things need to be changed. Thank you very much. Or maybe if it doesn't get better, we'll come back.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. For a long time, everyone who deals with political science has known that the password Stop the right has changed the password Stop the truth. However, in order to go this far, you will ban the word in Parliament by your own coalition to your own minister when we consider the matter that her government has just proposed and touched on her ministry, and this, I must say, proves that physical laws do not apply to you too, because until now I have believed that there is no place to fall from the ground. But you've already reached the bottom of a political culture and you've sunk even deeper today. Congratulations! However, I must say that I regret this way of working, for it certainly violates Parliament's reputation and certainly violates the quality of Parliament's work. However, fear of the truth remains and I understand it, but I do not approve of it. Today, only this is lacking in order to adopt the amendment proposed here. Because the whole concept is fundamentally flawed. What does this concept really prove? Only the agency you're proposing proves that the current coalition is interested in power without responsibility. Because such a coalition legitimizes the agency, which will result in nothing more than when something goes wrong and it is now precisely known that it is under the responsibility of the Secretary-General, it will now serve as an excuse: "You know this is an independent agency doing, there may be mistakes and so on, and therefore the Minister cannot be held accountable because he has no direct interference with this institution." If that helps. I don't believe there's a greater financial discipline. If, in procurement procedures and in general, in doing business in this context, they wanted more financial discipline and actually made order, then today they would decide on a law establishing a single supervisory institution in which the opposition would be exclusively the opposition, each time, because it would be bound to the mandate of each Parliament, fully appoint all professional officials who would then exercise control. We would see how mutual control works in a beneficial way when financial discipline is to be provided. I don't believe in formal independence, but I don't believe in the political establishment of an institution. Rather, I believe that its purpose is to extend the power for the period when the mandate assigned to the individual authorities falls.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u128	Any measure that contributes to reducing public costs when it comes to procurement or any other consumption is welcome. And I believe that this law is such that it will contribute to this, I am not sure that Austria is the only bright example, but rather I would say that it will be better for us to follow Austria as little as possible. But this is my experience with a number of areas I've been following. It is nice to discuss this amendment today, and it is very easy because there are two reasons; the first is that there is no, not even the least danger of being accepted. Therefore, what is really a problem in this area can be said about the matter itself, and we should consider how to do it better. We are reminded of this by the Court of Auditors, recently, we are reminded by some others, and the European Directive also says that, of course, national states are independent in determining these matters, but they must be responsible in a way that is compatible and transparent for other countries. The Directive, which was adopted on 13 July 2009, concerns this area. But it is even sweeter and, of course, here in a democratic spirit, it is necessary to say this, given that Mr Jerovšek has no more time, that he has already told us where the traitors are and what is dangerous for this country and that he will not have to do so now. Because I was already being accused of opening any question, I am excused to say so. If that were true, otherwise, I think that on the basis of warnings from both the Court of Auditors and the directive and something else to be done, there has also been a talk about a specific law on public procurement for the area of defence, or whatever else that will be discussed, and that is why this amendment is valuable and will certainly not be adopted. If it were true as you say, then at present we would certainly not have, at least according to publicly known information, four complaints in a court involving a public defence order, but two of them are about two months old, two of them are about six months old or a year old, and some of them we can't know what it is or whether it's already been carried out. But it was already possible to hear in public that there were investigations. Mr Jože Zagogjen, who has been a continuing logistics and defence procurement entity for 20 years now, is clearly under investigation. And here's the middle of the debate. So don't open up any questions about the procurement of military equipment and everything else in this area, because you're going to hit on the interest of some party that's been doing it best, transparent and, of course, for many accounts, both of them, and so on, so say public resources. This can also be understood and I understand this debate also because, otherwise, it would not be possible to understand certain court orders as well as some other supervisory institutions, that many purchases under the code are confidential, internal or whatever orders of a confidential nature that do not belong there, and there are things that could be procured and should be procured very transparently, even more so because you have many things on the EDA website today, and there are other providers, even a range, even to weapons and certain things that are special in nature. There are things that must be confidential and can be treated and treated appropriately. But all of this cannot be done under this cover or under this form. Yes, it is. And that's what the Court of Auditors has pointed out, among other things. So that we still have a discussion about what is certainly unacceptable to this amendment, which will not be a tragedy, and it is right that we should not have to worry here about whether all the words that have come to today's meeting, or not, but the Rules of Procedure, as I am, apply to the Government, apply to all. And here everyone has to do what they have to do, report those who are at the point of speaking and get the word, no drama about it needs to be done, just that's the rule. In this mandate, we have read quite a few things through the media, although I agree with my colleague Cveto that there is much better and so forth, but we have also read about some purchases for which neither the Defence Committee nor the National Assembly could get the relevant data in time and not be able to exercise control over this area, but this is always a limit that is very narrow The question is, what would the Supervisor like to oversee and the question is what, who is supervised, would like to tell the public. This is an eternal conflict and it is not only in this country of Slovenia, it is elsewhere. In the previous mandate, it also happened that those who were in the public interest asked why certain wiretaps and similar purchases were not intended for that sort of activity for the ODS and, similarly, those who had asked about it, but not to explain why they had bought something past, even then it was beyond the funds which were deliberately envisaged. Even this discussion of where to go and how far to open up, centralize, do one thing is, of course, always open and appropriate. I believe that this special commission, which is supposed to be the Interdepartmental and dealing with these things, will answer the first part of the question that we have approached a better arrangement and that it is still waiting for us. I believe that that part of the information that says that, on the basis of such a directive, as well as some other experience, the Ministry of Finance or the government, however, will produce a better, more transparent order, including in this area, will be accurate. And there's something else that's important about that. It is important that we ensure such procurement procedures, in order to ensure security and those responsible for security, that they also have the opportunity under the law to have, on the other hand, the public on the other hand, on whose behalf this is done, to know how much money is going, for what purposes, and how much it has been lost. And here it would be because of the continuity of 20 years, or within some employees, or those who have good connections inside, sometimes they were employed or just sympathizers on some levels to cut this cord and start working on a new one. But here no one will convince me, if they get a word from the President of the Government to the last, that these connections, that some of these things aren't there. Even so, some things in some documents are actually mirrored in the way who prepares these documents and to whom he is more inclined, to which channel suppliers he is more inclined in one thing to which the other. And even so far, there are some arrangements, who are ever in line for any spending of taxpayer money and for some purchases. Therefore, when you look at all this, you will not be surprised to see that some things are purchased before, are purchased in large quantities, perhaps even unpriority, that on the other hand there is a lack of money for things that would be necessary to maintain the whole system and so on. And then we find ourselves in the budget, in the rebalances and other things, when it cuts linearly, and then the whole system gets hurt, which is not good, which is bad, and I agree with that. And now it will be very difficult, although I have been obvious, quite loud to stand up for only my projects, but not the whole system, they are difficult to accept and also difficult to accept. And this answer will still require me to get it, because the answer I got was really underestimating, it was a very simple matter. So I'll be sorry if we can't move forward. I believe, however, that this discussion will contribute to the fact that the forecasts that have been made, as well as some of the warnings that have been given, the Minister has been here talking about the Court of Auditors and some other matters, in the end also on these matters with regard to the initiation of investigations and certain complaints concerning the preparation of calls, the award of orders, the taking of the goods and so on. This is to deny that this is not and that these are weaknesses - I am not saying that this is a crime a priori, but some weaknesses are probably if the prosecution is ultimately filing an accusation, or a sloppy job at work or a suspicion that some things have been done at the expense of the taxpayer's money and some money has gone away from it. When such complaints appear, we need to think about it, see if all the decks in the system are as they should be. It's not about any charges. It's a question that's always open. And you can trust me, fellow parliamentarians from other countries, here is, at least Mr Grims and Mr Jerovšek, and you know how the issue of these controls, of these discussions, how money is spent, how money is spent, how, if nothing else, in the last five, six years, the Commissions of Inquiry have been both in Austria on eurofighters, both in Germany, so back and forth, and so on, the Netherlands, Belgium, Mr Klaas has had to step down long ago because of some suspicions and so on, but this is the work that we are doing for the same thing, all of us, the Ministry, the Government and those who are dealing with these things to care about, we have to ensure conditions and ultimately to carry out on behalf of the public also this dialogue, this control, etc. All the other things are, I'll say, poorly understood and I feel very uncomfortable many times when a person asks a question based on knowing a problem, some information, and immediately gets the impression that it is a misunderstanding, that it is an obvious, that it is an attack, that it is a matter of not knowing what, etc. I would like to hear, publicly speaking, very clearly, very clearly, it should be said how we are going to change the treaty with Patrio or break the treaty or whatever. Even if you want, we've also sat on the coalition, on the Defence Committee, and I don't know where we've had these discussions, I have to say that at this point I don't know what kind of situation we're in, whether we're going to go to the end of the order, or whether we're going to cut back because there's no money, or whether we're going to go in the direction of applying the anti-corruption clause or anything else. Lately, I have read that the prosecution's inquiry, if I have read it correctly, or the request to obtain it, yes, the Ministry of Defence will request the prosecution to look into the file in cases involving the Patrienne. Now that there have been some misunderstandings in the last days about whether a court can also be asked and so forth, this is clearly the right way. But these are questions that open when we talk about public procurement. Once again, every debate is welcome, every positive proposal is fine. However, when it comes to this particular case of this law, as it is said, I will support the law on the public procurement agency, but I know that the amendment will not be adopted in any way and you may be embarrassed. Once again, even if through a procedural proposal there will be any attempt to attack again and I don't know what on my part, I can tell you in advance, but I have saved you a few more minutes, I will not agree that if someone opens up questions if they raise some doubts in something, because doubt is always the one who, in the end, has to chase you down if you want, trust is of course a wonderful thing, but there must be some doubt that things don't happen at any point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, can I get you anything?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u130	Your Honor! I suggest that you give Mr Anderlič, who has now left a large number of hints about people who are not here today, particularly that you should kindly explain to him that we all in this Chamber know very well that Mr Jure Cekuta was in the narrowest circle of the former President of the LDS, Mr Drnovsk, and that we are therefore crystal clear why the Minister of Defence here today should not have spoken to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u131	Mr Grims, this was not any proposal, nor was it an assessment of the debate. Otherwise, I personally hope to claim that I knew in advance that there would be no procedural proposal, but it is true that you are not the only one to do so. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u132	Yes, Mr Grimes laughs cheerfully because he always knows how to play, and I will say, take advantage of things, especially when they are running out of time, and now there was no time to take care of the word again in a different way. First of all, I would like to explain, because Mr Grimes's statements are correct, I think they are very malicious. No one here today wanted to prevent the possibility that the Minister of Defence could speak. This happened because of their mistake, because not all persons were clearly mentioned by the Government among the rapporteurs, I see that quite a number of her co-workers are here, that there is almost the highest management of the ministry, but apparently they have overlooked this and not to see that anyone has banned it. Did any of us say no? These are business criteria, and that's why the minister can't talk today, not because someone shut her mouth here. This is the way you use it, and where, literally, I'm going to say, you're saying things that aren't real. You were talking, you were saying that we had closed up or stopped the minister from speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u133	Mrs. Flower, I'd like to ask you to stop talking about this. But we both know because we were inside the whole time what the fact was. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u134	I'm done, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u135	I have warned that, unfortunately, or the fact that the Government has not proposed to the Minister of Defence. But I asked and asked if he could speak, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u136	My time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u137	The proposal from you, by Mr Anderlich, was no. [[...]] And I didn't give her my word. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u138	But I would be very happy if I could talk, so that I have no problems and I would even like to hear explanations from the Minister and her arguments, even though we talked about this yesterday. I must say that it is quite amazing and interesting how many arguments today are against this single agency, against this being regulated in one place. As if everything in Slovenia has been so wonderful in recent years, I don't really know why we're doing this. It's all right over there. Ministers have to do this, have these powers, everyone has to buy their toilet paper for their own department, everyone has to order pencils for themselves and so on. I think they simply come to terms with some completely different interests and other things that you want to tell us in these concerns. These concerns are not in this sense to be concerned, I don't know, about everything that we know and has happened, they have been said several times already today, in this area, about millions, of which, I will say, certain very serious institutions are saying that we are losing them through untransparent public procurement. That's where we're different. We estimate that this method, prepared by Minister Krebs and the Ministry of Public Administration, is true. It's going in the right direction. It's not said that it will, she'll say, everything is so perfect, but I think that the way is good, right and leads to, but if not the other, if you buy more, then I think that, at least as I know things, that with goodwill and economy to achieve that if you buy more, you buy more. That's what happens to me at the market. If I buy more pounds, they give me a discount on the price. And that's it. I think it's better that we buy for all the departments together, except, of course, it's easy, and here I'll, I'll say, I'll look at the Secretary of Defense myself. I don't know, Minister. Be careful. I'm calling you, I'm asking you. I have a feeling that your logistics and your procurement are leading, directing and still, I will say, have a hand over it by people who obviously have done these things in the past and who have had such and different purposes. More or less, once again, I do not remember a public defence order that has not caused at least a few reflections, affairs, problems, problems. I hope you control things. I hope that you are controlling them because it is an incredible entanglement, we are almost convicted today that we believe that public procurement could also be led by this agency, the country's issue. I don't think it was far away, but it was very close. That's what I'd like to say about the Court of Auditors. Two ministers are there, at least one, I know that she has read the report prepared by the Court of Auditors on the economic performance of the public contract, Patrie. I know what it says, and I hope you know it. It says that the area of secret public procurement in Slovenia is used, that it is often used for certain other purposes, and that there are problems, problems and we have been told that this area needs to be changed, that secrecy is used for anything other than what this secrecy is intended for. In short, secrets about how much we have, what things we have under this cover, and this was written by the Court of Auditors, this was written by the Court of Auditors, it was hidden or followed completely other interests, and that is why, now that is really my last word, we wanted this debate to open and to discuss why these orders in the defence segment would be eliminated and still guided where in the past they did not produce the results we want.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you. Just one moment. Ms Silva Črnugelj applied for the floor. I'm sorry to tell everyone, because I know you'll all get angry, but you think you're being wronged, and you won't. Mr. Anderlič first raised his hand, did he not say either procedurally or Mr. Anderlič, an application for discussion? [[...]] Yeah. Then you'll be on your turn later. Mrs Breda Pečan asked procedurally and Mr Jerovšek procedurally. Mrs. Breda Pecan, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I would just like to warn you, I think it makes no sense for me to explain to the President, but I would like to warn my colleague, Cveto Zalokar Orazem, that the Minister could not have been given a word, and it is therefore unfair that you have constantly addressed her as the Minister of Defence and challenged her that I should actually be able to respond, but she cannot answer because she has no word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u143	Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u144	Mr President, I will also give you a similar procedural proposal or warning. You have very correctly explained what was now that they did not want out of those benches, but allowed the Minister to give her the floor. However, Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem claimed that no one wanted to prevent the Minister from performing. You illustrated it. And that is why my procedural proposal, which I will explain, is that it is your duty to give a public reminder to Mrs Cveti Zalokar to speak the untruth, consciously. Because ignoring Parliament's dignity is similar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u145	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u146	I have to explain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u147	This thing's been explained a few times, please. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u148	I'll explain. [[...]] Such ignorance of Parliament's dignity is like a low and arrogant attitude, as was the last time Mr Jankovic was on the investigative committee when he fled the hall as a witness. As referred to in Article 244 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u149	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u150	The CAP punishes it with a fine. [[...]] There is no fine here, but it is necessary for you to give a public reminder to Mrs Zalokar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u151	Mr Jerovšek, if I give a public reminder, I will also give it to you, because you involve things that really do not belong. Mrs. Zalokar, do you want something? What do you want? Procedural? You're really going to get a public reminder if you don't make a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u152	I'll apologize. I'm going to apologize for not seeing myself when colleague Tone Anderlich said he didn't want to give that word. I considered that the matter was purely procedural and therefore I am also procedurally proposing that we give the Minister of Defence a word. I didn't propose not to give her a word. Because that's how it turns out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u153	Ms. Cveta Zalokar [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u154	But I didn't notice a colleague who suggested it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u155	I won't explain it again. I've explained it twice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u156	And I am a warner to myself [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u157	Mr. Anderlich said to my question that the Minister should not be able to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u158	the authority, and it will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u159	She didn't have the authority. The meeting is chaired by me and the Minister has not received a word so far because someone is from the Chamber, but this was personally Mr Anderlič, he could be someone else, he said, if he does not have the authority, we do not make an exception. And please, you too know this and end the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u160	Yeah, yeah, 'cause I listen to them for others [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u161	Because otherwise, every five minutes, someone who says [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u162	Can I speak for a second? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u163	Now, lady, now we don't give [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u164	Can I apologize for not noticing this and for myself? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u165	Here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u166	I'm giving you a warning. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u167	Let's accept your apology that you didn't notice a neighbor who said no words could be said. Thank you. Mrs Silva Črnugelj now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I came to this word because obviously I didn't know, and I could not understand at all, that this amendment was some kind of lesson in democracy, because my colleagues in Zares and my colleagues in LDS were trying on this amendment, in fact, to see how difficult this democracy is or what it isn't. You could actually give someone who might have satisfied Toneto Anderlich with an answer, let's say he had the opportunity to give his word to the minister. Given that he is the President of the Business Commission, he knows exactly how and in what way to give the person who does not have the authority, even the opportunity to speak. And that's democracy. But still. On public procurement in the field, for example, as has been said here, the essential interests of the security of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence, and so on, I do not know. However, here we have experts who could give a broader view of this area, and in fact I regret that in the field of public procurement, which has been so important, say, 20 years of Slovenian democracy, but we do not give a woman a word, and this to the female minister, and that the President of the Business Commission does not allow a word to anyone who may have a slightly greater view of it. Otherwise, I have passed a law on public agencies and a comment on this law, and I can say that I am very respectful of the work of most agencies, and I know that cyclical changes to the law on public procurement and also to the law on public agencies should also be made. However, if we continue to do so in this House, we will not allow those who know anything in this field and experts to say the words and so we will listen to fairy tale lessons not only over a period of, say, six years, but there until 80.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? No, no, no. I conclude the debate because no one wants to discuss it anymore, and I conclude the debate on this law. I'm breaking this agenda. We will continue it at the time of the vote. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on mountain guides. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Darji Radic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! There are two fundamental reasons for amending and supplementing the Mountain Guides Act. The first reason is to delete the condition of reciprocity referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, of the current law, which is the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the OECD process of association. Because the conditions of reciprocity mean that under the same conditions as our mountain guides, the conditions for carrying out activities in another country should also apply in our country. Because, in fact, we are now in a situation where the conditions of reciprocity are already guaranteed for all the countries of the European Union, now also for the OECD members, this condition of reciprocity is no longer needed because it includes all the countries from which mountain guides can come to us. The second reason that is more important, however, is to address the shortcomings and weaknesses that have emerged in the implementation of the applicable law. The most important novelty of this law is that it defines the activities of mountain management more precisely, so that they know clearly what their basic activity is. The independence of the Association of Mountain Guides of Slovenia is then stressed. This, according to the new self-determination of the members of the examination committee, independently determines the amount of the insurance sum, in general, these changes are to be reduced, we will say, administrative obstacles. It is now given to this organisation, the Association of Mountain Guides of Slovenia, much more autonomy and freedom in determining their rules of the game. The change is also in the uniform regulation of guide tariffs. Until now, even the Minister had to give his consent to the tariffs, and now they will agree on it themselves. However, since the fundamental principle of this law is in fact to ensure the safety, safety and security of guided persons, we also find it very important that we provide better leadership through the amendment of the law or amendments, since training and verification of knowledge will not only be required once every three years, but twice every three years. These are key news and changes. In most cases, it is about removing administrative barriers and in short addressing all the weaknesses that have emerged in the implementation of the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear secretary, colleague and colleague! The Committee on the Economy, as the parent working body, considered the draft law at its 24th meeting, in June 2010. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SD, Zares and DeSUS Group on Article 1 and by the SD Group of Members, Zares, DeSUS and LDS on Articles 4 and 5. The meeting took place by introducing the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy to present the basic reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Mountain Guides Act, and in particular its main solution. At the conclusion, she stressed that the Government agreed with the amendments tabled, following the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, as confirmed by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. The members of the Committee and the others were invited to discuss only the provisions of Article 1 and the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to this Article in the course of the discussion on individual articles. The representative of the Group of the Liberal Democracy stressed that neither the text of Article 1 of the bill nor the amendment to this article was supported in the Group of Members. As regards the proposed solutions concerning the delimitation of mountain guides and professional guides' activities, they have concerns because they do not think they are the happiest. The problem is not solved by an amendment tabled, which merely otherwise defines ski tours, which should be led by professional leaders of the Slovenian Mountain Association. The representative of the Government explained that a month-long public hearing had been carried out on the bill, in which many discussions had been held, both with representatives of the Association of Mountain Guides and with representatives of the Mountain Association of Slovenia. The outcome of these discussions was a compromise solution, which is included in the proposed text of marriage in Article 1. This compromise solution is the only possible and best solution at this time, as it follows the fundamental principle of law. Members of the Committee were also presented with the views of key actors, namely, the representative of the Slovenian Mountain Association explained that in relation to the recent change in leadership, which has fundamentally changed the view of this issue, they do not support the proposal. After the bill was introduced into the legislative process, however, the Association of Mountain Guides was renegotiated and managed to reach an agreement whereby all professional guides would go under the auspices of the Association of Mountain Guides of Slovenia, which would also take over the licensed training of the professional guides of the Mountain Association. Unfortunately, however, the agreement reached cannot be realized within the framework of the proposed legal novel. The representative of the Association of Mountain Guides of Slovenia also confirmed this and fully agrees with the views of the LDS Group. We can therefore find that there is a substantive solution to this problem in its entirety and that there is a need for a more extensive amendment to the legislation in force. All key actors expressed their willingness to participate in the preparation of new legal solutions at the meeting of the Committee. In view of this debate, the opinion was expressed that it would suggest a proposal to reject the law and proceed immediately to the drafting of a bill to implement the agreement reached. There is no point in taking solutions that are not supported by key players. However, the representative of the Government was of the view that this would not make sense, as the proposal for a law should be adopted because of the commitment of the OECD and also because it eliminates the type of other weaknesses that have emerged in the implementation of the applicable law. The only issue is the definition of the competence to carry out border activities, which can only be regulated more comprehensively over a longer period. In the debate, an initiative was given to include natural protection control of natural driving in the tasks of mountain guides. The representative of the Government considered that this proposal was nevertheless put in place, but that the exercise of such control was not part of the Mountain Guides Act, and could be regulated by another regulation. The representatives of the Association of Mountain Guides and the Mountain Association stressed that the component of each management in the mountains is also the protection of nature, but that specific control of mountain rides cannot be exercised by guides because their primary task is the safety of hikers. No decision has been taken by the Committee on that proposal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted all the amendments tabled. Accordingly, a further draft law, which is also an integral part of this report, is being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Matjaz Han. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. You will be the first to present your position on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thanks again. The Law on Mountain Guides, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, is mainly a result of Slovenia's accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, in a work which obliges us to delete the condition of reciprocity in the implementation of mountain management activities. Another guide that makes the adoption of the proposed law necessary is security in our mountains, as the Government's representative also said, as statistics show an increase in the number of accidents and also of the unfortunate. In part, this is due to unregulated legislation in this area, and we are confident that this trend of deterioration of security will also be halted when the law is passed. The security items in the law provide greater competence for mountain guides, while at the same time clarifying the very concept of mountain management activities and thereby clarifying the distinction between hiking and hiking. As has been shown by the examination of the law on the labour market, certain solutions to the bill have not yet been definitively fixed or have been harmonised between representatives of the public concerned and the Government only after the legislative process has begun and implementation would not be possible under the proposed law. We therefore call on the Government to reconsider the preparation with new sources of the amended law. For the reasons already mentioned for eliminating the condition of reciprocity and increasing mountain security, we will also support this law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Daniel Krivec will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Mountain Guides. We will not oppose the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Group, but we are asking about the urgent priorities for the adoption of legislation and the sense and appropriateness of dealing with such laws at a time when all energy needs to be invested in solving economic problems. I'm sure that law doesn't solve these problems. To amend and supplement the Mountain Guides Act, according to the proposaler, these are two fundamental reasons for the government. The first is the deletion of the conditions of reciprocity referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, of the current law. From a substantive point of view, this is a less important issue, which needs to be addressed as the Government has accepted a commitment in the OECD accession procedures to adapt legislation in accordance with its competences so that the condition of reciprocity does not apply to residents of OECD Member States. Since there is no valid reason to notify a condition of reciprocity to guides from third countries, it is appropriate to delete it from this law. Another justification for the adoption of this law, according to the applicant, is to remedy the shortcomings in the implementation of the applicable law. In particular, this package does not adequately define the concept of mountain tours and climbs referred to in Article 2, paragraph 1, of the Act or mountain management activities, which impedes the implementation of the law and control as well as unduly restricts competition, strengthens the competences of the Association of Mountain Guides of Slovenia, changes aimed at enhancing the quality of training, abolishing the uniform setting of minimum tariffs for the management and deletion of certain too strict provisions, particularly those relating to the work of mountain schools. The activity of mountain guides ranges from that of the professional guides of the Mountain Association of Slovenia, so that the activity of the latter relates only to the driving of persons on the roads and on the road to the mountains, where there is no need to use cordial technology and on easier tour skis, this also means a tour of skis where there is no need to protect the path or especially the protection of the guided ones, regardless of the difficulty. In the SDS Group, we agree to ensure a more precise regime aimed at ensuring greater safety of guided persons in more demanding mountain tours, tour skis, climbing climbs, etc. The question is, however, about the equality of the status of mountain guides compared to the leaders of the Mountain Association of Slovenia. This is particularly evident in the area of supervision, where the Sports Inspectorate is responsible for the supervision of the leaders of the Mountain Association of Slovenia, united under the umbrella of the Water Commission of the Mountain Association of Slovenia. The provisions on inspection are clearly defined in the rules on the training of professional workers in sport, and the rules also define the public document obtained by the participant after a successful examination and demonstrate the name and level of professional competence. The monitoring is mainly carried out in the field of the implementation of training programmes. However, the provisions of the Mountain Guides Act do not clearly identify who is supervising the implementation of training programmes. It is only determined that the content of the courses is prescribed by the competent ministry. Although the Association of Mountain Guides of Slovenia is a professional association, which has been a member of the International Association of Mountain Guides since 1997, it does not make sense that there is no definition of control over the training programmes for mountain guides and it would make sense that this is defined in a specific article in terms of ensuring safety and public interest in this area as well. For both categories, the aim of the pursuit is to ensure the safety of persons involved or led in the mountain world, and it is therefore unclear why both categories of guides, both mountain guides and mountain guides are not regulated in a single regulation, even though each category is specific in terms of its specificities. In this way, management matters would be much more transparent and the exercise of supervision by the competent authorities would be easier. We will not oppose the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! There are many accidents in the mountains in Slovenia, and I do not agree with the content that is not strictly related to the crisis and anti-crisis or other measures, the only ones that should be addressed in the National Assembly. I also think that the issue of efficiency or the establishment of such situations would contribute to reducing mountain accidents, making such content also meaningful and fully relevant to Parliament's consideration. And in this direction, the law that we have before us and the changes bring some news, but it seems more important to me, not least because I also participated in the preparation of this, including what was happening in this law, that was mainly the fact that dialogue between the Mountain Guides Association and the Mountain Association and their management service, where we were actually looking for a number of solutions and options to make this area more coherent, and I think that unfortunately we have also concluded that, given that the Ministry has already submitted its proposal, some things will have to be changed and addressed, and we have, after years, relatively conflict situations that have been among them, however, spoken. I think that's one big advance. I must say that in Slovenia mountain accidents are much because also the tradition of mountain guides not in terms of organisation, but in the sense that visitors to mountains, tour skiers and others, in some way, design a mountain guide, is not too rooted. In Slovenia, everyone thinks that things can be done on their own, while this matter is particularly more present abroad, it is not so unusual to hire a guide who can safely accompany you either on a mountain tour or on a ski tour or a tour. And I hope that we will make certain progress in this regard, and that this law also brings, to some extent, an affirmation of mountain leadership, an affirmation in the sense that this also means one important, because the area is under the economy, an important industry within tourism, where foreigners who are not so lonely in our mountains will be, but to a large extent even the victims of our mountain visits, often knew how, how and also used our mountain guides for a safe journey through the mountains. And here I think it is important that these guides are well trained, of course in the first association, these things are also related to international criteria and criteria that are extremely strict, while I think that when training domestic mountain guides, it is right that things are also regulated, under control, sufficiently focused, that adequate education is needed, because the situations that then occur in this work can be very difficult. Mutuality is the one that has formally hung the most in this law and has caused it most to be dealt with quickly, so perhaps another part of the content has not been set up, and I hope that, despite what has been said before, we will find time and regulate it. Some of these issues are being tried in some way to remedy the amendment tabled by the LDS, but some things will have to be changed. In our parliamentary group, we will support this amendment of the Guides Act, as well as the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u180	Hello, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished vice-president, distinguished secretary of state! Allow me to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mountain Guides. The implementation of the Mountain Guides Act in 1999 contributed significantly to the legal order of commercial management in the mountains, the promotion of the profession of mountain guide and improved safety in mountain management activities. In addition to the Mountain Guides Act, commercial management is governed by the Sport Act, while guides under this Act are subject to restrictions on the complexity of management, which is linked to the category of leader of the Mountain Association of Slovenia. The position under which any professional management in the mountains can be governed solely by the Mountain Guides Act as a sectoral law is to be contested by the very weak provision of Article 2 of the Act, which binds the activities of mountain management on mountain tours and climbings as well as tour skis without exception and without defining their complexity to the compulsory engagement of the mountain guide. However, since hiking is one of the areas that is underdeveloped in Slovenia in view of its natural characteristics, it is appropriate to allow professional leaders of the Mountain Association of Slovenia to take part in this field. Therefore, the fundamental reason for the adoption of this law is a more precise definition of the concept of mountain tours and climbs referred to in Article 2, paragraph 1, of the Act or mountain management activities, which impedes the implementation of the law and control and unduly restricts competition. The amendment to Article 2 will therefore define the activity of mountain guides as well as the management of persons in the mountain world, on roads and on the freeway, the management of persons on tours, the management of persons on climbs, the management of persons on ice tours and the professional teaching of mountaineering. The profession of a mountain guide shall cover the activities listed and may only be carried out by a person entered in the directory referred to in Article 5 of this Act. The activity of mountain guides is divided into the activities of the professional guides of the Mountain Association of Slovenia in such a way that the activities of the latter relate to the management of persons by road and by road in mountains where it is not necessary to use rope techniques and on lighter tour skis. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mountain Guides Act. We have a proposal for a new Law on Mountain Guides. This is a proposal for a law which has been written in order to ensure greater security in the Slovenian mountains and, of course, to regulate some other content, such as the deletion of the condition of reciprocity referred to in Article 4(2) of the current law, which is in accordance with the commitment of the Government to the OECD. The Novela brings solutions to many of the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the applicable law. For example, it defines the activity of mountain guides more precisely, ensures better competence of guides and thus greater safety, as there will be significantly more time available for the examination and regular training will be required twice every three years, ensures greater independence of the Association of Mountain Patients of Slovenia, the establishment of mountain schools is burdened with administrative procedures and will be further defined as one of the modes of operation of mountain guides. It is a draft article which provides that the tariffs for management are governed by the general act adopted by the Union of Mountain Guides of Slovenia, which provides for minimum tariff amounts on the basis of the law and the consent of the Minister to these tariffs. According to the responses of representatives of mountain guides and guides of the Mountain Association of Slovenia, this is a novel that is not ideal, but a compromise solution. In particular, opinions have been drawn and, according to the amendments tabled, they are still cracking about the range of activities that can be managed by either mountain guides or mountain guides. Especially when it comes to running a skiing tour. We must certainly attach to the argument of mountain guides that such an easy tour of skiing in poor weather conditions can be turned into very difficult. That is why in the DeSUS Group we tend to support the amendment tabled, because we are ultimately working together to ensure maximum security in our mountains. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we will certainly support the proposal of the law in its entirety. Finally, I would like to point out that in the DeSUS Group we are pleased that the associations of the Gorski vodnik Slovenia and the Mountain Association of Slovenia have unified their position and reached a compromise on the most important things, in particular on the standardisation of activities. The fact is that strict standardisation is in the public interest and is necessary in order to ensure the highest possible level of safety of professional management in the mountains. Of course, the standardisation of this area in us and the basic solutions in the field of governance must be equally comparable to standardisation and with these solutions in other Alpine countries. So the cooperation of the Mountain Association of Slovenia and the Association of Mountain Guides is, according to our assessment, an important milestone in this area. Because we estimate that, of course, it is right to regulate this commercial area legally, but it has an even greater weight than ensuring the safety of mountaineers, mountaineers in our mountains. Our mountains are difficult, and there are many fatalities, unfortunately, and it seems to us that such an arrangement would help to ensure this security when we list almost three million tourists in our mountains. So we believe that the law is well prepared and we will also support it because we want this area to be regulated in the best way possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, representative of the government! The amendment to the law was intended to give rise to two fundamental reasons. The first is, we have already heard, the OECD and Slovenia's entry into the OECD. Therefore, the conditions of reciprocity should be deleted. Another fundamental reason for the adoption of this law is to remedy the shortcomings in the implementation of the existing law. It is about defining more precisely the concepts of mountain cultures, uprisings and other terms relating to the content of this law. Of course, it would also be good if this law, as it is intended to promote the development of tourism, simplify the implementation of mining school activities, strengthen the autonomy of mountain guides, ensure the safety of visitors, ensure the protection of guided persons and ensure the free movement of services in the internal market. Respectfully, of course, to the work of the government services and the government and the competent ministry to adopt this law. Look at the fragment, but if the person to whom the law is intended, that is, the Mountain Union of Slovenia and the mountain guides disagree with this law. In the Slovenian National Party, we decided and logically concluded that it was a little strange if we were supported by a law that was not supported by those to whom it was intended. This is also the only reason why we cannot support this law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u185	Havela beautiful. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Good-bye, Secretary of State, Mrs. Raditchev! Colleagues and colleagues! Eleven years ago, Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia were the holders of a legal initiative that successfully ended with the adoption of the Law on Mountain Guides. The law, which, after more than 50 years of some ideological ban on the profession of mountaineering, has re-established the area of commercial management in the mountains and thus reinstated Slovenia once again a respected and respected profession of mountain guide. However, since the entry into force of the law, the activity itself and the profession of the mountain guide have been able to see in the process of adopting the novel under consideration, the main purpose of which is to ensure the free movement of these services in the internal market, of which Slovenia is part, and within the OECD Member States, so that the condition of reciprocity will not apply to residents of the OECD Member States. We certainly fully agree with this in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and we note that in the development of commercial governance activities in our mountains there are still large reserves, large untapped potentials that should be exploited. In order to make good use of them, however, it is certainly necessary to properly regulate commercial governance in Slovenia and its comparability with solutions in other Alpine countries with a rich and commercially successful tradition of commercial management in the mountains. This is the aspect of the consideration of the novel, which we are somewhat disturbed by in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and for this reason we have also prepared an amendment to Article 1 of the legislative text, which I will briefly present to you, and regardless of customer affiliation, I ask for your support. The new provision of Article 2 of the basic law, which we are amending with the amendment, is actually delimiting the activities of mountain guides and the activities of professional guides of the Mountain Association of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the borders are not the happiest, that we do not follow good practices from other Alpine countries with more than a century of development of this activity, and that if established, there will be a source of uncertainty and potential conflicts between the two forms of commercial governance. In some ways, we are even legitimizing unfair competition with mountain guides, which is not good. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are convinced that any ski tour can be professionally guided only by a mountain guide with a license and no one else. Only mountain guides with appropriate licences are so qualified that they can provide an adequate level of customer safety on tours where weather conditions can change within minutes. We therefore propose deleting the work of this decision, which also gives professional leaders of the Mountain Association of Slovenia the opportunity to conduct tour skis. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that a compromise on this issue has been reached since the introduction of the bill into the legislative procedure between the Mountain Guides Association and the Mountain Alliance. We view this as proper, necessary and encouraging. We have come to a united solution in coordination, but unfortunately we have not yet been able to incorporate into the existing law and amendments cannot be done. I just think we have some work to do here in the future. However, we have taken the first steps in the right direction, towards a more successful development of mountain tourism in Slovenia. It has real opportunities for successful development, as Slovenian mountains visit more than three million visitors annually, both domestic and foreign, according to some data. This data also shows a large, underexploited potential for mountain tourism in Slovenia. Therefore, on behalf of the more successful development of commercial management, mountain and hiking, I ask you to support the amendment to Article 1 and to support the early conclusion of the agreement between the Association of Mountain Guides of Slovenia and the Mountain Union of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. We therefore have only one amendment to Article 1 tabled by the LDS Group. You want a word? Here you go, on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would just like to reiterate the reason why we are assessing that this amendment is not the most appropriate at this time. Already in the debate on the Committee on the Economy, I said that the drafting of this law was in a multi-month public hearing. For months both stakeholders have been coordinated, say, mountain guides and mountain guides, on this issue. And when they reached a compromise agreement, we included it in this law. Following the introduction of this law, or even after the adoption of this law by the Government, there was a change in the leadership of the Mountain Alliance, which opened up new issues, new discussions, and the first agreement under which this law was also introduced into the National Assembly was suddenly no longer in force. Of course, a new consensus was reached. In fact, however, this compromise was so different from the first one achieved, on the basis of which these amendments to the law are prepared that actual amendments to their proposal could not be taken into account. However, here we need to stress that we are only talking about non-continuing the implementation of one, we can say, border activities. This is about the implementation activities of easier tour skis. These can now also be carried out by mountain guides following this proposal. Mountain guides estimate that it is difficult to define easy touring skis and that it would be better for all mountain ski tours to be carried out by mountain guides if they were better qualified to do so. That's all we're talking about. We do know, however, that the amendments and additions to this law include a series of other innovations, other improvements, and, finally, this commitment we have to the OECD on reciprocity is included. For this reason, the Government proposes to adopt this law now, but of course we are also open to the Ministry of Economy, institutions or departments of the area, so that the Mountain Union of Slovenia and the Association of Mountain Guides will immediately approach the preparation of a new proposal, one that will actually satisfy the interests of both sides as much as possible, because I am confident that 100% of the satisfaction on both sides will not be achieved. And when this compromise is reached, we'll just go into a new change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you, Mag. Radic, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy. I am opening an application to discuss this amendment and Article. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Of course, the law is politically irrelevant, but as regards what criteria and criteria we want to establish in this society, it is of paramount principle. What's this all about? Leading in mountains, especially professionally, professionally, when someone hires a guide and pays it, requires good equipment in addition to fitness, excellent excellence and skill of the one who leads. If we do not accept this amendment, then we will legalize that we do not give someone who has knowledge the same opportunity as the one who has spent more than two years on the license, a huge amount of money and time on it. But if I paraphrase, it means the same thing as if someone who did a B examination of the category was temporarily allowed to drive a bus or a train until we agree on it. It simply seems to us in the LDS Group that this is not the case, that an amendment must be adopted, that this area remains unresolved, and that will force us to amend the law. As for dialogue, coordination, it was extremely conscientiously guided, responsible, rightly on all sides, by the Ministry, mountain guides and also the Mountain Union of Slovenia, in all, we were unable to incorporate this into the law. If we adopt the law without an amendment, then let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the law with this grey fox, which poses a potential threat to those who have less equipment, less education, lead to the mountains, will remain for a few years. It is simply a matter of how tall we set ourselves a ladder and the criteria and how far and deep we want to take care of this law. I therefore propose once again that we accept the amendment. This will leave a large majority of the problems that time brings, and this little thing will remain, which we will then all be obliged to bring into the novel on the basis of harmonisation, which is then expected relatively soon. Of course, it's not a priority law. But he's one of the most important laws. We do not have many Slovenians, nor do we have many ore riches, but we certainly have one of the most beautiful mountains in this part of Europe, and we have many hidden corners that we can show to Slovenians and Slovenians and also to foreign guests. And in the area of mountain management, with even better cooperation with the innkeepers, the hotelers could make a substantial greater visit and also get some more from this activity, which, on the other hand, very well cares for our nature, our environment, does not pollute it. And we could say that we are dealing with one of the highlights of the pure organic part of the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, then I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Period of the day, it's on a defensive bill on consumer credit. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Radic, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members! The proposal for a consumer credit law governs credit relations, contracts between bank and non-bank lenders and consumers. Most of the provisions of the law refer to or include provisions of the new Council of Europe Directive on consumer credit contracts. This Directive is based on two principles. The first is the principle of full harmonisation, which in principle does not allow Member States to maintain or introduce stricter or lighter consumer protection measures. The aim of the directive is to provide a uniform legislative framework in this area, which will allow for a more uniform and effective functioning of the internal market in the area of consumer credit, thus increasing the cross-border movement of consumer credits. On the other hand, the aim of this Directive is to provide consumers in the Member States of the European Union with a high and comparable level of protection of their economic and legal interests. The aim is also to contribute to ensuring transparency and stability of credit markets through measures to regulate and control the credit providers being introduced. The second principle on which the directive is based, and which is now being introduced into the proposed law, is the principle of responsible lending of money at all stages of consumer credit relations. The proposed law specifies the principle of responsible lending of money first through provisions governing the obligation of lenders to provide consumers with a range of detailed information on the loan offered prior to the conclusion of the contract. And another such provision is that credit providers must assess the consumer’s creditworthiness before granting credit. The main solutions brought by law under the current regime are: to the newly defined concept of total credit costs, which is the basis for calculating an effective interest rate, then the new introduction of standard European consumer credit forms, which introduce a single system and display the information that the creditor must give to the consumer before concluding a contract. The introduction of a mandatory consumer credit assessment is new. To this end, credit providers will also be able to access the consumer credit rating data exchange system, of course taking into account the protection of personal data in a consistent manner. The content of the credit agreement is then further prescribed. There is also a relatively limited right of the creditor to pay the loan on early repayment of the loan. There has also been a change in the granting of licences which no longer allows those creditors coming from the non-bank sector to obtain such a permit for an indefinite period of time, but now there is a commitment that lenders from the non-bank sector should extend this authorisation every three years. However, new measures are also being proposed to more effectively withdraw authorisation from non-bank sector creditors, as well as to better and effective control over them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as a work force at its meeting on 30 June 2010. The Committee was, as usual, informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which the amendments to the bill were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee also received a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia proposing an amendment of the Committee to Article 17 and a letter from the Association of Banks of Slovenia proposing to the Committee the amendment of the amendment of the members of the coalition to Article 43 and giving an opinion on the proposal for amendments to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to Article 17. In its introductory part, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy stressed that the proposed law introduces a directive on consumer credit contracts into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, which introduces the principle of full harmonisation and then presented the main solutions to the bill. The representative of the ZPS explained that the comments in the written opinion were taken into account in the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, with the exception of the comments to Articles 9, 10, 24 and 26. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, proposed solutions and amendments tabled, the members of the Committee did not discuss their views, comments and concrete proposals to certain articles from representatives and representatives of the interested public, namely the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the Union of Consumers of Slovenia. In the debate on Article 17, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia pointed out the uncertainty of the provisions of the proposed law relating to the obligations of the consumer in the event of a derogation from the credit agreement. It is unclear how, in the event of a consumer’s withdrawal from a credit agreement, the appropriate safety of the supplier of goods is ensured in the event that the goods have already been delivered. A proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 17 was also made in writing by the Chamber and could be amended in accordance with the warnings of the Association of Banks of Slovenia, in the sense that the consumer must return the goods promptly and in an unaltered amount within a period of 30 days, as originally proposed. The representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia pointed out that the association had always warned and made concrete proposals on the issue of the fate of goods when it withdrew from the credit agreement, but had not been successful so far. This issue is governed by three laws, which often leads to confusion in practice. In this regard, the representative of the Government explained that the proposer would seriously examine all comments and proposals submitted to the public concerned in the drafting of the legislative text. He pointed out, however, that the content of the bill relates to consumer credit and thus to credit contracts rather than to purchase contracts or consumer protection. However, the problem raised will be examined again in depth and, if necessary, a different solution will be drawn up. However, the representative of the Slovenian Consumer Union expressed the view that Article 17 does not need to be supplemented, since it is two contracts which are separate. In the debate on Article 43, the representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia explained that, while in principle, they agreed with the ZPS’s comment that the regulation of the uncertain fact of the future system of exchange of information on client creditworthiness was not appropriate but did not agree with the deletion of this paragraph or with the amendment of the coalition. They believe that it would be better to specify a provision by including a specific date. 1. 2012 when the exchange system provides data on the credit rating of natural persons. The representative of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia pointed out that they supported the comments made by the SPS and the deletion of Article 43(2), since, in terms of legal certainty, it is not appropriate in the law to set a time limit for the use of an instrument which does not have a legal basis at all. In doing so, it should also be borne in mind that this is a sensitive area of personal data protection. With regard to the proposals made by the representatives of the public concerned, the Committee did not decide, but it was stressed that amendments could be tabled by Articles 17 and 43 for the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, so that interested parties, together with the proposer of the bill, could re-examine the issues and prepare better solutions as necessary. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted all the amendments tabled. Accordingly, a complementary draft law, which is also an integral part of this report, is being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u196	Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this consumer credit law because, as far as I know, it is one of the exceptions, so one of the solutions that emerged in, say, the partnership between the opposition and the coalition. Not in the mandate of this government, but in two mandates. In particular, this law transposes into the Slovenian legal order a directive on consumer credit contracts, which was one of the great achievements of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, because in a relatively short time it was necessary to bring the views closer to each other and to find compromise solutions between many European consumer organisations on the one hand and, of course, credit providers or banking, financial systems, which, of course, had many different interests than consumers. Credit providers usually have an interest that the interest or costs of such credits are shown in a vague way and high, that, of course, the consumer is, of course, more than at the beginning of the consumer, thinks that he will pay for such a loan that he hires or takes for such or other consumer activity. On the other hand, many consumer organisations have, of course, demanded a set of safeguards in this Directive to prevent the abuse of the financial sector by consumers. So the directive was at the end, but I must say that many European Members and, finally, Commissioners were quite under the influence of different lobbyists. In particular, I am thinking of one of the Commissioners, who was very much under the influence of the financial lobby and who has always opposed the adoption of this directive. So it was finally adopted in April 2008. This law brings it into the Slovenian legal order and represents an important step forward. For all, both consumer and consumer credit providers, there are some new developments, it expands the scope of application according to the law in force, and credits under €170 and financial leases are newly included in the scope. For some types of credit, a lighter regime is introduced, and provisions on consumer information and information are also important, on the forms of credit agreements and finally on effective interest rates. So, because we also have something in the SDS, let's say, authority over these solutions, of course, we'll be happy to support these solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u198	Have a nice hello again! Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished vice-president, distinguished secretary of state! According to the proposer, a new consumer credit law should be adopted in order to ensure the legal order of the community required by the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. A number of factors have led to the adoption of the new directive. The European Commission has previously prepared an in-depth analysis of Member States' experience in implementing the old directive and has found that there are significant differences between the laws of the different Member States on consumer credit. Moreover, in order to protect consumers and to ensure fair competition on the market, it is necessary to ensure greater efficiency over non-bank and savings creditors. Consumer crediting in the Republic of Slovenia was first specifically regulated by the Consumer Credit Act, which was adopted in 2000. Before 2000, consumer credit in our legal order was not fully regulated. The law was first amended in 2004. Among other things, the first amendment narrowed the scope of the exceptions under which the Consumer Credit Act did not apply, regulated consumer mortgage contracts, fixed the maximum allowable effective interest rate, prohibited the provision of credits with blank financial instruments and extended the powers of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to protect consumers with regard to the issue and withdrawal of credit. The reason for the change in the 2004 law was severe abuse and injury to consumers due to the lending of money that could have been described as dumping. In 2004, the law was amended for the second time. The amendments were also adopted at the time due to the need for greater consumer protection, particularly for those who rent loans from companies not registered as banks or savings banks. It turned out that non-bank lenders in practice are once again our side of the way to circumvent the law. This time the amendment of the law is, as it is said, adopted in order to ensure the legal order of the community required by the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. An important factor in the adoption of the new directive was, above all, the depreciation of previous legislation, which no longer corresponded to the reality of modern times. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law without any major reservations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you, Chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Consumer Credit Act. The proposed law transposes the new directive of the European Communities on consumer credits and their contracts into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. It introduces the principle of maximum harmonisation, which means that Member States cannot, in their national order, impose measures that are neither milder nor more stringent than those laid down in the Directive. Consumers in all Member States are thus provided with a comparable and high level of protection of the economic and legal interests of consumers. We see that the bill follows the requirements of the directive accordingly. With regard to those issues which are not covered by this Directive and which can be regulated by the Member State itself, the provisions of the current law and the Consumer Protection Act are mostly retained and summarised or supplemented. It is very important that appropriate measures to regulate and control credit relations ensure their transparency and security for both sides, as this has a positive impact on the stability of credit markets. In the DeSUS Group, we find that the bill includes all those principles that are crucial to consumer security in taking credit, where we estimate that there are two important principles. Firstly, consumer safety is guaranteed by the corresponding commitments of the creditor, and secondly, consumer safety must also be ensured in the sense that it will be secured. The consumer should be allowed the possibility of a real assessment of the burden of credit and its consequences. It is very important that the consumer decide to hire a loan to be prudent. Here complete information by the lender before the conclusion of the contract and, of course, the duration of the contract relationship plays a key role. The principle of responsible lending of money must also result from a lender who is also obliged to pay attention to who and how much money he will lend. The latter is reflected in the law through the obligation to assess consumer creditworthiness. We see the purpose of this obligation in reducing the risk to the consumer and, of course, to the lender. So there are many things that are included in this law and speak in the protection of the consumer as well as in the protection of the lender, so we will also support the proposal in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support such a proposal for a consumer credit law. We will support it because we estimate that this law will, hopefully, ensure a high level of protection for consumers' economic and other interests. So he'll protect the consumer. We will support it because we hope, as specified, that it will strengthen control over creditors. Thus, we will have transparency and stability in the area of credit markets. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law because, according to its definitions, the consumer will receive all the necessary information in due time before concluding the contract, without having to carry out the so-called small print, which is then taken off and taken off. We will support it because it will determine, at least as far as we understand, a single limit on lending costs. We are particularly pleased with this part of the law, and we will therefore particularly like to support it, where a limited right of credit is introduced for those who are not banks or savings banks. I hope that it is not just here that all those who are not banks or savings banks will have to ask every three years for this to be an instrument with which we will force all such donors not to be scrutinized, to be honest and not to blackmail people in any way or other. So we will support all these provisions because they are fair to consumers. At the same time, we are concerned about only one thing, and we would like to warn whether control over the implementation of this law will be strong and who will implement it, because it is nice to write everything in the law, and then again we have different lenders who have different conditions, which we do not know, who are working in black, who are blackmailing people and so on and so on. In particular, this law is welcomed at this point because, in fact, in this state as our country is, consumption is the first to draw us out of this economic and financial crisis, because consumption promotes production and, of course, employs more people and the economic cycle is relaunched, not downwards. In short, we support and warn once again and ask for the supervision of the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Say hello again to the secretary and to the director of the directorate! What do you say? We have before us an appropriate law that provides consumer protection, a useful solution and will receive the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The proposal for a consumer credit law concerns the transposition of the European Consumer Credit Directive and introduces the principle of full harmonisation. Thus, the main reason for the adoption of the law lies mainly in increasing consumer protection and ensuring adequate competition on the market and also in ensuring more effective control over non-bank and savings creditors. The Directive, which provides for the effective functioning of the internal market in consumer credit, also pursues the objective of ensuring transparency and stability of credit markets. The proposal contains additional solutions such as the obligation of credit providers to provide consumers with a range of detailed information on the loan offered before the conclusion of the contract. Creditors also have an obligation to provide information in such a way that the consumer understands the financial and legal consequences of borrowing credit. Greater security and due diligence in the granting of credit are also subject to provisions laying down the obligation of lenders to assess the consumer’s creditworthiness in advance. Important developments in the law are also presented in the newly defined concepts of total credit costs, the introduction of a standard European consumer credit form, and the content of the credit agreement is also detailed and consumer rights under the related credit contract are defined more broadly. Certain types of credit are also provided for by the so-called milder regime, which in practice means that they are not subject to all the provisions of the law, namely credits in the form of an option of overpayment in the payment account and credit contracts in which it is stipulated that the parties will enter into a deferred payment contract and thus the possibility of a judicial proceeding will be denied. As I said in the introduction, since the law brings the right and for the protection of the consumer a useful solution, it will receive the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u205	Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u206	Social Democrats are pleased with the uniformly expressed support for this law, which we see as another of those laws that strengthen consumer protection, this time in the consumer credit segment, to ensure a transparent supply of consumer credits and an appropriate comparison, which will certainly be in the interests of consumer protection – it will prevent consumers from playing at the same time as a single legislative framework, providing a transparent offer throughout the European internal market. The adoption of the law, as already stated by the speakers, requires harmonisation with the European legal order, the objective of which is the rational and responsible lending of the money of the lenders, so that we can also significantly prevent future financial crises. The law clearly defines the total cost of credit and thereby eliminates the possibility of abuse of creditors of credit, so that in the future we can more effectively avoid the many affairs we have witnessed in the past, unfortunately, to the detriment of recipients of loans. As a particularly important novelty, the Social Democrats understand the obligation to provide complete information before the conclusion of credit agreements, i.e. without hidden costs. The law also works in favour of consumers in the work where the content of the credit agreement is prescribed, as well as the limited duration of the authorisation of non-bank or savings creditors. In accordance with the European Directive, the Consumer Credit Act introduces the principle of responsible lending of money with appropriate measures to promote responsible behaviour of creditors and credit intermediaries. The adoption of the law follows the full harmonisation of European legislation, which ensures greater consumer safety, greater responsibility for lenders and intermediaries, a better regulatory framework for consumer credit in the function of full comparability of supply in the common European market. Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, it concludes the second reading of the draft law. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's a second defensive proposal for a mining law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Darji Radic, Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members! The proposed Mining Act lays down the conditions for the exploration, exploration and exploitation of mineral raw materials, whether in the land, on its surface or in the waters. It further lays down the conditions for the suspension of their exploitation and the conditions for ensuring protection and health in the implementation of works relating to the exploration, exploitation and abandonment of the exploitation of mineral raw materials. He's also in charge of inspection. In fact, the proposed law aims to remedy certain shortcomings of the current mining law, which was adopted in 1999. During this period of ten years, of course, certain shortcomings have appeared. However, the aim of this law is also to remove the type of administrative burdens imposed by the current law. It is precisely this removal of the administrative burden that I will pay a little more attention to in this recital. The bill thus now allows for the free search for mineral raw materials, it is said that the search for raw materials no longer requires a special permit. It then states that, for example, prior to the start of the survey, concessions no longer need to be granted, but only permission to explore is obtained. And only when the raw material is found does the concession process, the conclusion of the concession contract, as is the case in the current law, begin. However, the exception to the acquisition of concessions is the exploitation of geothermal resources by geocollector or geosondo, which does not require the acquisition of a concession. After stressing that the proposed law is consistent with the possibilities offered by Directive 2009/31 on the geological storage of carbon dioxide and amendments to those Directives, it provides that it is not possible under this law to obtain a permit for exploration and mining rights to be used for the purpose of injecting and storing carbon dioxide. So in Slovenia these options will not be allowed. The proposal also allows certain types of mineral raw materials to be identified as mineral raw materials in the public interest. The law provides that such mineral raw materials are, in any case, energy minerals, as well as hydrocarbons, could also be said to be strategic raw materials. Well, these are already defined in the law, and now, of course, if it turns out that any more mineral raw material is important for the country that is needed for the development of the country, then the Government by regulation can also identify other mineral raw materials that are in the public interest. Why, in fact, should these mineral raw materials be identified in the public interest? This is the basis of the procedure for issuing a concessional act or regulation to the Government for the exploitation of such mineral raw materials, where the raw materials are in the public interest, and in this case the procedure for issuing the concession is followed by an official duty. However, in the case of other mineral raw materials, a procedure shall be put in place for its possible issue and not more than so far so that the Government should issue a concession on the basis of initiatives after 120 days have elapsed. A permit for exploration may be issued on the basis of a prior invitation to tender, and the award of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials may also be made on the basis of a prior invitation to tender. However, where it is only an increase in the exploitation of non-metallic mineral raw materials, or if the landowner makes use of it, there is no longer a need for a call for tender. In short, this is also a type of simplification that, of course, allows all those who want to explore and exploit mineral raw materials to, we will say, a more modern and even simpler process or easier operation, but still controlled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Committee, Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u210	Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as a work force at its meeting on 30 June 2010. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which the amendments to the bill were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Following the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Committee, these delegations submitted proposals for amendments to the Committee by Articles 1, 3, 17, 59 and 146. The Committee also received the following material: the Ministry of the Economy's response to the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service; the Commission's opinion on local self-government and regional development of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law; the letter from the Ministry of Economy, with which Velenje's Ministry of Mines provides a fairly detailed explanation or answers to specific comments. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy presented in quite detail the main solutions to the proposed legislative text. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, stressed that their comments were mainly taken into account in the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In particular, it highlighted the comments on Articles 35, 61 and 63 relating to the Institute for the Promotion of Mining in Public Interest. The legislative and legal service draws attention to the dispute in the proposed solutions, in particular from the perspective of interference with the autonomy of local communities. The members of the Committee and the others were invited to give the most attention to the debate on individual articles, brought by the draft law, to which key comments were also made by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, namely, the Institute for the Public Use of Mining. In relation to this Institute, it was highlighted its controversy, in particular from the point of view of interference with the autonomy of local communities. The panellists stressed that, while it was possible to understand the purpose of the proposed institution's design, they pointed out that it might still be too misplaced and would in practice be able to cause certain problems to local communities in particular. Other issues are also raised, such as how to deal with this area within the protected area or in an inaccessible area. The representative of the Government explained that it was indeed a new institution that would enable the Government to declare a specific area by regulation to be a mining area for public benefit so as to freeze the spatial act in this area. It should be noted, however, that this institute is intended only for strategic mineral raw materials, namely oil, gas and coal, and would be used exclusively. The fear of such an area being declared in the protected area shall be resolved by the amendment to Article 62. It adds a new, fourth paragraph, which provides that the Minister responsible for mining cannot propose to the Government the issuance of a regulation declaring a specific area to be a mining area for public benefit if such land is located in an area governed by an insurance act. With regard to the provisions of Article 27, Member Anton Kolarič submitted a proposal for an amendment to the committee extending the period of validity of the research authorisation from three to five years in the first paragraph. The representatives of the proposer did not object to this proposal, so the Committee took up the proposal in its amendment, which, at the same time, deleted the second paragraph of this Article as it became unnecessary by amending the period of validity of the authorisation. The debate also focused on some other issues. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 or Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee considered and adopted all the amendments and amendments tabled by the Committee. Accordingly, a supplementary draft law, which forms an integral part of the Committee's report, is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr Lojze Posedal will present the position of the Zares Group. Mr. Loyzet Posede is gone. You didn't announce a replacement, but still, since you're more of a rookie in this congregation, please, I give you my word, but that's exceptional. Second of all, please don't do this. The replacements need to be notified in advance. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you, Vice President. The draft law lays down the conditions for the exploration, exploration and exploitation of mineral raw materials. Its key purpose, however, is to address the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the applicable law and to remove unnecessary administrative burdens, which have been pointed out by individuals, operators and candidates for mining rights, as well as appropriate mining associations and public services. The main objectives of the bill are, in our view, three. First time. Secure important strategic mineral raw materials for the development of the country and local communities. Another time. To holders of mining rights, which already carry out research or exploitation of mineral raw materials on a given land, to ensure a long-term opportunity for development. Thirdly, to provide the resources necessary for the recovery of mining parts of degraded areas. In the Group of Members, we really support the bill. As an important novelty, we would like to highlight a new concept, which is an institution for the declaration of mining space in public interest. This is an institution by which the Government could declare a specific area a public mining area by means of a regulation so that the spatial act in this area could be frozen. It should be noted that this institute is intended only for strategic mineral raw materials, oil, gas and coal, and would apply only exceptionally. We are aware that it interferes with the autonomy of local communities which determine the purposeful use of their premises, with the obligation of existing legislation in this area only to harmonise individual spatial acts. Despite concerns, however, we note its usefulness with regard to the conservation of resources for the development of the country of significant mineral raw materials also for future generations, their management and the prevention of harmful effects on them. In the future, when this institution comes to life, it could also be used for others and not just for strategic mineral raw materials, as this would solve a number of problems that local communities face in practice in the exploitation of mineral raw materials. In particular, we would stress the decision not to allow the storage of carbon dioxide in abandoned mines in Slovenia. Since such activity in Slovenia is not economically justified and because the procedure for carrying out this storage is also extremely complex, the Government decided, at the proposal of the competent director, that this storage would not be permitted. As an extremely positive acquisition in the mining law, however, we welcome the resolution of Article 59 of the law, which also includes practices in the exploitation of mineral raw materials that have a negative impact on the environment. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the economic interests arising from the mining right acquired must be met with a constitutional right to a healthy living environment. We will therefore really support the proposal for a law in the Group of Ambassadors. Thank you. Once again, I apologize to the chairman and thank him for his kindness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thanks again. Good bye to all of you! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a mining law. The Ministry of the Economy has joined in amending mining legislation on the grounds of a lack of clarity in the implementation of the current applicable law, then due to unnecessary administrative burdens that have been pointed out by persons who are obliged to act and act under the law, i.e. operators and candidates for mining rights, mining associations and also public services. In our conduct, a thorough analysis of such a problem has been carried out and the text of the amendment to the Mining Law has been formulated. This law covers a number of objectives and several principles. We find it important to aim to protect important strategic mineral raw materials for the development of the country and the local community. To holders of mining rights already carrying out research or exploitation of mineral raw materials on a given land, long-term development opportunities shall be ensured. It is also important that we aim to ensure the continuity of the flow of resources necessary for the recovery of mining and other parts of degraded areas. To better regulate the tasks and competences of inspection and, in relation to the previously defined conditions to be met by participants in mining, also to define additional offences and fines in respect of mining. We also find it important to have all the provisions and principles that speak of maintaining the fundamental principle of protection and health at work of the current mining law and that, on the basis of the latest knowledge of the mining industry, be updated in a technical sense while maintaining the fundamental principles of protection and health at work and their technical updates, it is possible to obtain mining rights without unnecessary administrative burdens. To a greater extent than ever before, to ensure that mining is developed, to the maximum extent possible, that exploitation of mineral raw materials will not take place without the previously acquired mining rights and permits as we have seen before. Thus, to a greater extent than ever before, to ensure the safety and health of people in the implementation of all mining works and to prevent mining accidents in the greatest possible faith. In short, the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal is as follows. The bill is extremely extensive. In certain segments, even too extensive or too detailed, which may appear to be a hard - to - understand text. The latter could be avoided by laying down general provisions which would go to the law. However, I have to admit, leaving the regulation of what area in the sub-laws can lead to sub-legislativeness and thus to an act of legal certainty for all interested parties. We therefore do not oppose the proposal from this point of view and at the same time commend everyone in this area for their efforts. Unlike some DeSUS Members, we do not see an enormous increase in taxation of mining right holders through this text. The text has several positive effects, both in the work relating to concession contracts and in the specificities of exploitation. Positive effects are also seen, according to our assessment, in mining design, in the management of mining services, where the expertise or participation of various experts, both miners, geotechnologists and geologists is more stressed. We estimate that despite its extensive text, the bill has been drawn up professionally, correctly and appropriately, so it will be supported by us. It is true, however, that it is not always possible, even in cases of conflicting interests, to include all claims in the text of the law. Here I have in mind a number of comments from the interested public, which are always welcome. We therefore need some compromise and Members of the DeSUS believe that all these requirements are either included in this proposal or are substantiated and confirmed. So all of this means that in the DeSUS Group, we will fully support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. I would say first to the Ministry and to all those who have prepared this law as congratulations on the bold move. I must admit that the 160-article law is very professionally demanding and, in fact, it is difficult already to go through its substance, except that a non-professional person could also assess the professional and legal basis, so it is no wonder that several amendments have been proposed by the Legal and Legal Service, which is also very much grateful, probably for reviewing this law and all the amendments – both nominally and sometimes more difficult than a nomotechnical correction. Today we have a decision to make about this law, and of course nothing is ideal, and today we have heard what is at stake. Article 62 of this Law is disputed, which, together with the amendment, we have tried to resolve most favorably. And again, we are there to go, to run, to understand one way or another, but to understand, above all, that we are in this area of a protected area or an area where infrastructure is not developed, that we do not need to be afraid that some discretion will co-decision, but caution is needed. It is also true that today, in different times than we were not long ago, even though in the field of strategic raw materials such as oil and gas, we would, I believe, be happy if we could find one of these strategic raw materials in our work, because it would mean a great deal to this country. I say that coal is as important as strategic, energy raw material, and unfortunately the society's attitude towards this energy is different. However, we are living in a different time and therefore I think that there is a great danger that we will now fight, I am talking about the content of Article 62, that somewhere we will want to reopen where, I don't know, the protected area or the inaccessible area is not going to be much. I would be very happy if the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine, like at least with the stocks still rich, could live successfully and continue as it is. Although we know for ourselves what a degraded area means, a degraded area is also being placed now in the development of municipalities. But I'll talk about it some other time. In the Slovenian National Party, it was agreed that such a law, which is mainly professional, extensive and also needed, updated, would be adopted in the hope that everything will also be consistently respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u218	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Government Representative, Honourable Fellow Member, Fellow Members! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree that there is a need not only for reconstruction, but also for the new Mining Act, since it was adopted in 1999 and has been amended twice. According to the applicant, when preparing for the adoption of the Mining Act, when analysing the implementation of the applicable legislation, it was noted that there were still complications and problems in the implementation of the law, in particular due to some of the unclear provisions and requirements, which constituted a completely unnecessary administrative burden, to which individuals, operators and candidates for mining rights, as well as relevant associations and public services were alerted. Among other things, the main reason for problems in mining was the separation between exploration and exploitation, since after obtaining the concession a special administrative authorisation for exploration and exploitation should first be obtained, and after obtaining the special administrative authorisation for each mining work. There are also problems in the implementation of the current applicable law in the definition of so-called other mining works. As both a building permit and a mining permit had to be obtained before the construction began, there were also uncertainties in the production of project documentation, regarding the competence of inspection of such constructions and also in the issuance of usable permits. In addition to the conditions for obtaining the right to research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, the new law will therefore regulate only those mining works and related mining works intended for exploration, exploitation and cessation of exploitation. In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we agree with the proposed solutions to the law, which pursue the objectives of securing important strategic mineral raw materials, the continuity of documentation and interpretation of mineral raw materials exploration, ensuring equal treatment for the acquisition of rights and simplification or reduction of administrative obligations. In the LDS Group, we therefore support the solutions provided by law to create a difference between the conditions for the acquisition of mining rights for exploration and the conditions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and to obtain a permit for exploration prior to the start of exploration of mineral raw materials in a given research area. No concession will be necessary for this in the first phase. We also support solutions aimed at allowing candidates for a mining right holder to conclude concession contracts more quickly and to eliminate illogicality when the holder of mining rights had to obtain a permit for exploration or exploitation for every single mining work to obtain a permit for implementation. In the LDS Group, we also support the solution to define certain types of mineral raw materials as raw materials in the public interest. While the government may declare mining space by regulation, which is an intervention in the autonomous right of spatial planning, this option is limited only to strategic mineral raw materials such as oil, gas and coal. It also seems to us that it makes sense to pay for the provision for the rehabilitation and closure works, where the fund is responsible for the collection, management and purpose of the funds derived from the payments of the reservations. Where it is necessary to clarify that, as from the date of the application of this Act, it is considered that the funds reserved under the existing law have already been reserved as a means of recovery under this Act. Finally, the new law is needed because six directives and one regulation of the European Parliament or of the European Council must be transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the mining law together with the two amendments tabled, both Articles 1st and 70th, which were tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal of the Mining Act, which is ahead of us, introduces into the Slovenian legal order provisions of various European directives as well as certain important amendments. One of those it brings is the distinction between research and exploitation, as the ambiguity in this delimitation has in practice proved to be a major problem in the allocation of concessions and mining rights. The delimitation of both concepts, as defined by the law, will undoubtedly bring about a faster exploration of the geological structure of the soil. It is also important to remove administrative burdens as the law allows for the free search for mineral raw materials. It also requires only permission and not concessions. The clear and detailed delimitation of construction and mining works will in the future prevent abuse by owners of mining rights and allow easier control of owners, thus improving the situation of protection at work as well. The greatest controversy in the law has been demonstrated in the work which shows the declaration of mining space in the public interest, in order to unduly intervene in the jurisdiction of local communities, since a spatial act is frozen in the case of the application of this institution. In the SD Group of Members, we agree with this arrangement proposed by the Government. In addition, we are convinced that such cases will occur in practice only exceptionally, only for strategic mineral raw materials such as oil, gas and coal. The amendment to Article 62, which was adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, further prevents such an institution in the event that a particular land is situated in an area governed by an insurance act, which further rejects the evidence of inappropriateness of that institution. The technical orientation and technical details of the law also clearly point to the fact that the law has also been drawn up in cooperation with the law applicable in practice and the solutions identified therein are appropriate for us. In the SD Group of Members, we are convinced that the law is good for mining and mining and that we will unanimously support it, as well as the amendment tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have before us the proposal for a mining law that regulates the search, exploration, exploitation and management of mineral raw materials as a natural resource, with the exception of the exploration and exploitation of sinks, sand, grammes from water and coastal land, where the provisions of the law governing water are applicable. The law incorporates the requirements of the new directives of the European Community and the simplifications imposed by the improvements tested in the implementation and practice of the previous law. The bill allows for the free search for mineral raw materials, provides that only permission and not concessions should be obtained before the start of the survey, as in the past. Concession is obtained only after research has shown that mineral raw materials are also useful for exploitation. This is an exception to the exploitation of geothermal resources, where the draft law provides that no specific concession is required. Furthermore, the proposal for a new law offers the possibility of defining certain types of mineral raw materials as mineral raw materials in the public interest. The law provides that in any case such energy is mineral raw materials, hydrocarbons are to be said. Upon finding that other mineral raw materials are essential for the development of the country, the Government may lay down them on the basis of specific criteria for exploitation in the public interest. In this case, the law introduces a different procedure for issuing a concessional act, in the event of the intended exploitation of mineral raw materials of public interest and in the case of the exploitation of other mineral raw materials. When we are talking about the intended exploitation of mineral raw materials in the public interest, the bill proposes to issue a concessional act on official duty. For all other cases, a tendering procedure shall be introduced by collecting tenders. This is a big novelty compared to the previous law. However, the important novelty of this law is the declaration of mining space for public benefit, which constitutes an intervention in the autonomy of local communities, since the determination of the use of space is very detailed and precisely laid down in the applicable spatial legislation and is one of the essential rights and duties of local communities to allocate space for certain uses. These procedures are long-term because they contain the coordination of all co-operators and stakeholders in this area. Such a proposed declaration of mining space in the public interest could consequently mean that a particular area would actually be used in a different way than the spatial acts of the local communities provided for in their spatial acts. This is a matter of circumvention of the law in spatial planning, and this may be a problem, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Since this is an essential novelty, which in part also sets out the concept of this law, this solution should be further considered. Despite the above and the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2010 I therefore put to the debate first Article 1 and the amendment of SD, Ares, DeSUS and LDS to this Article. I'm opening the application. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in. Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am moving on to Article 70 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 5.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u224	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wage System Act, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 18 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 19 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of item 15 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 53. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment, and I am also concluding the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mountain Guides, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 23. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment, thus concluding the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Credits, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Mining Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 70. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. You have the floor. Darja Radic, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much, President. I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision which, after the second reading, will also proceed to the third reading of the Mining Act in the course of this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of the first paragraph, i.e. Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 13. Seven. 2010, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. The amendments to these two articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the Notice of resignation of Dr. Matei Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We are moving on to the consideration of the notice of resignation of Dr. Matey Lahovnik, Minister of Economy. On 8 July 2010, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, informed me that Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, had resigned from his post as Minister. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr. Matthew Lahovnik has ceased to serve as Minister of Economy. Pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank Minister Lahovnik for his cooperation and wish him the best in his work. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Andrej Rant's duties as Vice Governor and as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia of 8. 9. 2010 We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for members of the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of five years: Aleksander Batič, Dr Mitja Brili, Dr. Jožef Horvat, Dr. Primož Kmecl, Dr. Rajko Knez, Dr. Janez Kranjc, Stanko Kristl, Dr. Janez Drevec, Dr. Franz Lobnik, Janez Matos, Dr. Niko Samec, Dr. Dušan Plut, Dr. Jože Rakovec, Dr. Miha Tomaževič and Dr. Davorin Tome. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. If you didn't have the microphone on, you'd have attached that to it. I had a microphone on. I am moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the selection committee on the cases of candidates for the appointment of the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Very briefly. The proposed decision on the appointment of a member of the selection committee to elect the suitable candidates for the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption will be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. The procedure was properly and in accordance with the law, a procedure in which all the parliamentary groups received an invitation to propose candidates. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats was the only one who proposed a candidate for this city. We have proposed Dusan Kumra, and today we will also vote positively on this proposal. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission to the National Assembly for confirmation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposes to the SD that Mr Dusan Kumer, a member of the selection committee for the selection of suitable candidates for the appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, will not support. We will not support the proposal because of Mr Kumr himself, but because it is all a pre-arranged farce of the ruling coalition, which will appoint the Commission to prevent corruption to its own effect by serving the political interests of the ruling coalition in particular. The current anti-corruption commission, called the Kosovo Commission, has also served very loyally the interests of the current ruling coalition in view of the left-wing political parties. The main achievements of the Commission so far have been the so-called principled opinions on individual cases, which Mr Kos himself has generally chosen or were ordered by background actors, with whom they have shared imaginary affairs in public. Of course, they all sought to discredit the SDS, its president, and sometimes an individual Member, only if it sought to obtain reports on the work of the Kosovo Commission within its legal powers. However, there was no principled opinion of the Kosovo Commission on evidentiary irregularities with regard to the affairs of Minister Golobic and his Ultra, on the national investigation office and the affairs of Minister Kresalova, on land trafficking and would also be listed. At least so far, the Kosovo Commission has had control over at least part of it through the National Assembly Commission, where most of the opposition has been present. In this mandate, the Commission has been too thorny in the fifth for the ruling coalition and Kosovo commission, and has therefore abolished it by amending the law. The main reason for amending the law and repealing this Commission was the request of this Commission, a state-level committee, that Mr Kos should complete the 2008 report with the issue of the Patriary in which Mr Kos was probably the main actor. Under the new law, a selection committee shall first be appointed to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. That this election commission will have a political foretaste of the ruling coalition, you can see from afar. Of the five members, four of whom are appointed by the ruling coalition. The first is called in the National Assembly, this will be Mr Kumer, the second named Government, the Read Golobič, the third Official Council, which is the extended deadline of the government coalition and the fourth NGO, which is financially dependent on the government. That is why we have not proposed any candidate in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we know that it would be rejected, because everything is a farce prepared in advance with a known goal, and this is to submit this new commission to the interests of the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please. [[He won't.]] The position of the LDS Group will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you very much, President for your word. Greetings, Madam Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! We waited, we thought that the story would go away at this point as normal, and that we would be able to support Mr Dusan Kumr's good proposal without politicisation. We also attach our ticket because some time ago, because of the famous events concerning the President of the Parliamentary Anti-Corruption Commission, the coalition proposed to replace the president, but then it came across the deaf ears in the opposition, according to the principle "It doesn't matter how it works, how important it is that it is ours". If, of course, when we proposed it, this exchange was also accepted by the largest opposition party, then of course, we would believe that we want unspoiled control in this area. Of course, that is not how we believe it today. Given that the Integrity Act has been adopted and given the powers that this Commission has in the National Assembly, the proposal is certainly fully justified and rightly expected to receive support from the leaders of the coalition groups. For by transferring the content of the work of this Commission to the area of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the parliamentary supervision provided for by the law which has been adopted and which is in force is maintained. The argument that the Mandate-Electorial Commission will not do this job well is practically inconclusive. Even if a special commission were to be set up again in this area, nothing would change in practice. In any working body, we are composed of parliamentarians, who are responsible for implementing legislation that we are also actually drafting and adopting, of course would be a member of this Parliament. The system that we have regulated by the adoption of the Integrity Act, of course, means that the anti-corruption commission is being maintained, that certain additional powers are being given, that we also equip the 'nezzing tiger' with teeth and that it will be able to act differently than it has been able to act so far. It is therefore difficult to understand the argument that parliamentary control is the only real control and everything else should be questionable. This was a long time ago also possible when the Anti-Corruption Commission was trying to abolish the mandate, which is why, of course, behaviour and comments are more difficult to understand today. In the LDS Group, it seems essential to us and it is essential that we have an independent committee that can decide on these matters impartially. Nor does it withstand the claim that we are reducing control because it was the purpose of the law and the measures to strengthen control in this area. In fact, the Commission has been working in the National Assembly recently, in our opinion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u232	Please peace in the hall, Lord Jerovšek, please peace in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you very much, President. However, I am pleased to add to this Friday's conclusion of the parliamentary event. I think that so far the Commission has dealt too much with itself, and that is why, with regard to the Integrity Act and some other content, we are certainly better able to deal with this area in this mandate. We want the law to be even sharper at certain points than the previous law in force. We will support the appointment of Mr Dusan Kumra at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, because we believe he is an appropriate candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word is Luke Yuri. [[He's not here.]] The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I am very glad that before me Mr Saiovic, who confirmed our conclusion that the abolition of the so-called Kosovo Commission or, consequently, the state-level body which controls this, is revenge, precisely because it was required to submit a report for 2008, where everything that happened with the Patria case should be clarified. However, since this report was not available, Mr Kos did not want to prepare it, we also had an opinion of the Constitutional Court, and so on, another path has been chosen by the ruling coalition to simply abolish the National Assembly. And now, of course, by different methods, it's called an independent commission. Mr Saiovic, an independent commission will be appointed by an independent commission, which will elect, as I have said, out of the five members will be directly linked to the ruling coalition. And if anyone here can believe you're going to be an independent commission, you were really convincing. Surely you have not convinced us in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let's talk a little bit more about the work of the Commission so far, which you say was effective – how many principled opinions have been transmitted on the events in recent months? We haven't heard of anyone. About the many irregularities in the Baricevic bulmastif affair, about the sale of land to the Jankovic family? There was no principled opinion. Interestingly, the sparrows on the roofs have been chirping about how many irregularities have been committed here. As for Mr Pogačar and Minister Kresalov, Mr Kos promised that he would then convey a principled opinion, which, after the interpretation you of course rejected, was put in the drawer. So this is the only spoil of this so-called independent Kosovo Commission that has served as the ruling coalition in this mandate. In the previous, of course, it was in the role of the opposition, at the time, because in the position of the Group of Members, I said that the deadline had been extended, in particular, to the interests of the left-wing political parties. By not blinding the public, not blinding the opposition, that now this committee will make everything independent of how corruption and clientism will be pursued. Isn't the minister who gave up just because of all these affairs, clientelism, nepotism of the party Really – old politics, not new, old politics? Doesn't that tell you enough what's going on? So this committee is not going to be able to solve these things. Therefore, I hope that, if not sooner, in 2012, the Commission, which will once and for all erase or erase such a team, which has actually been leading corruption and customerism in Slovenia for 20 years. That is why, of course, I will not support this proposal, not to have any personal opposition to Mr Kumr, but because it is a pre-arranged farce. It is certainly clear who will be the president of the Commission, which will be the vice-president, is now just looking for the way that all this will turn into a cellophane and in this way the "independent" commission will be called an "independent" commission. I'm sorry, no one believes that anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u237	Are you guys gonna clap now? [[Laugh]] Thank you very much. I must say that the coalition, when preparing the anti-corruption law or how we are going to get to the president, has provided for strict filters so that it does not happen that the anti-corruption commission, so-called, probably has to say, fight when it comes to the words. We already know here that the dedicated persons of this coalition or this regime are protected. For today's choice, with due respect for the fellow Member, shows that this is a very, very sophisticated solution. For in the draft law, it was first written that this member of the Commission of the National Assembly would be appointed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances and, oh, horror, of course. When the coalition found that it was a minority commission and it could happen that one member of this five-member commission would be one that would not be entirely after the taste of a coalition and dedicated persons who are also dealing with corruption in that country, of course, that is immediately changed, and the National Assembly appoints it by a majority of its, of course, this is translated into a common language, the coalition appoints a member of the selection commission. And if we were really in the Group of Social Democrats to fight corruption and principled, then I think we would propose a fellow Member, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, who here is the only one who has shown that she is consistently committed to transparency and is fighting corruption. More times. With principled posture, of course, it has not come to your choice, because the purpose of this law and this commission is not to prevent corruption, but the aim is also to promote corruption if it is dealt with by dedicated persons. The best example of preventing corruption following a new coalition is the case of Minister Lahovnik. For as soon as he put on the agenda of the president of his party, of course, he became an undesirable person, a person without a garage. Of course, he is such a bright man that at the moment he gave up, so he was counseled. This protects corruption in this government and in this regime and in this coalition. This is an unusual act and, of course, because it is the aim and purpose of not having any surprise to come, that no one should come close to appointing the President, Vice-President of this Commission, who might not be able to comply with at least those main requirements of the coalition, is, of course, the proposal as it is. Mr. Kumer has spent his entire life in the middle of his life in human resources and has a lot of experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. The enthusiasm of the National Assembly on the side of the coalition is increasing, for apparently things are going in the right direction. Upon completing the government's mandate, the government proposed a law on anti-corruption, which provided for a parliamentary commission in which the opposition would have a majority in the area of corruption. And in the previous term, in this committee, the opposition actually had a majority and also exercised adequate control. In this mandate, we can find that the supervision of the commission, the anti-corruption, parliamentary work of the Kosovo Commission has been disabled and even disabled to this extent, despite the fact that Mr Kos should report periodically, regularly, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, these reports have not been submitted and the coalition has not moved here. Even more. When requested to complete the 2008 report on the Patria case, in which Mr Kos was very active and even recorded and performed in the Finnish television YLE Truth about Patria with these activities and activities of his commission, he did not wish to complete the report. Although he lost the dispute three times in the Constitutional Court because the Constitutional Court rejected these concerns by the Rules of Procedure, he did not report and the coalition did nothing. Even more so, when all legal options have been exhausted and all these pressures on the President of the Commission of the National Assembly have expired, you have only been able to make this change by amending the law in a very fast procedure and also by changing the composition of this Commission and by making this commission and also by modifying the procedure for appointing a new commission. At the same time, you have simply overlooked many of the obligations that the Kosovo Commission had and also some of the obligations that the parliamentary commission had. They're gone. The procedure for appointing a new commission will, as colleagues have already said, be extremely coalition, with the parliamentary commission lifted parliamentary supervision, opposition parliamentary supervision has been lifted. And if we take this into account that you have removed the opposition from all supervisory councils in companies owned by the state and appointed by the state of its representatives, including the National Assembly, by abolishing parliamentary control of the work of Kad and Sod, because you transferred these matters to an agency in which the National Assembly no longer has jurisdiction, by abolishing control in the Agricultural Land Fund, you have practically cut off the opposition from all possibilities of views, management of this state property. In short, the coalition has arranged these matters to an extraordinary extent. What this law brings is a perfect farce. The coalition appoints four members directly to this election commission, the state-level Mandate-Election Commission, in which the coalition has a majority, appoints its representative. And this is a coalition representative. The government is in one way or another a core of the coalition, a selected core of the coalition, will appoint its representative, the Official Council will appoint the Government, and it will appoint its representative, civil society organisations with, this area, which is also financed from the state budget, will probably also appoint one that is, at the will of the Government, the only Council of Justice will appoint its representative. And here to talk about any serious control, prevention of corruption, prevention of cuneiformism, prevention of nepotism is a kind farce. The entire surveillance system has been adapted precisely to the extent of the coalition. And how the new law on integrity works in practice, you can see for yourself when the greatest fascist is the one who warned of some irregularities. And this is not only about the irregularities in dealing with the state budget, but, worse still, also in dealing with companies owned by the majority of the state. And for such an experience, the Government Act has also been amended, because telecommunications has also been transferred to another department.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-09-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dusan Kumer as a member of the selection committee for the selection of suitable candidates for the appointment of President and Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 15. Seven. I also interrupt the 19th meeting of the convention, which we will continue on Monday, 12. Seven. 2010 at 9 p.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
