ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Melita Župevc, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Milenko Ziherl and Branko Grims. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE COOPER LAW, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 38th Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Bojan Kontic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! The Family Code proposal updates more than 30 years old family legislation and regulates it according to time and space requirements. For the first time, all key family legislation is regulated within one legal provision. In the future, however, the country will be more active in regulating family situations than it has been so far, and this will be due to a particular common objective. This common objective, however, is a successful and effective protection of the interests and interests of the child. The benefit of the child is defined in the family code as a fundamental principle and thus placed in the heart of the new family law. Accordingly, we extend the concept of a family represented by a child, regardless of the structure and other family members, on condition that there are adequate relations and relations within the family. I emphasize the appropriate relations and relationships. We define the rights and obligations of parents towards their child by the term "parental care", which is both of its content and of its legal nature for the protection of children's rights. We introduce an advocate of children's rights who will be available to children in all the activities and procedures before the state authorities they directly impose if their benefits cannot be adequately protected in other appropriate ways. They clearly define measures to protect the benefit of children, and the courts will also be more active after the new ones. Social work centres will thus be able to give full attention to professional advice and assistance to families in distress. At the same time, the proposal for a family code complements and simplifies the regulation of the marriage and the non-marital community and simplifies their conclusion, thereby encouraging the conclusion of more lasting partnerships that form the basis of the family. State aid is covered by the draft Code in the system of compulsory prior consultation prior to the judicial resolution of problems between couples and parents, in a relationship and in relation to children together. Prior advice, expert advice and family mediation are regulated by the proposal for a code with specific new provisions, since in practice family mediation has proved to be an effective mechanism for the peaceful resolution of open issues between partners. In accordance with the child protection doctrine, the family code also regulates the area of care, care and adoption in more detail. In doing so, social work centres will work more actively with the competent courts and together look for the best possible solutions for children. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia already gives special attention to the protection of the interests and interests of children as one or more particularly vulnerable groups or minorities. This protection of rights and benefits was later realized through various family laws and regulations. Today, we combine rules on the protection of the interests and interests of children in one place, i.e. in the new family code. In preparing the proposal for a family code, however, its drafters could not circumvent another right, the right to non-discrimination on the basis of personal circumstances, by means of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the provisions of the Family Code do not differ on the basis of race, sex, social status or religious belief, nor on the basis of sexual orientation. The warnings and decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in this area were clear and unequivocal and were therefore taken fully into account. The validity of such a solution is also confirmed by the recent Supreme Court decision, which confirmed the decision of the District Court on the validity of an American court judgment allowing the adoption of a girl to same-sex partners with all rights, as if she were a biological parent. This decision, however, was challenged by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. The purpose of the new family code is to protect the interests and benefits of all children, regardless of the type of family community they live in. We can't do that and we won't make any difference. All must enjoy full citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The family code that we are considering today has been in existence for a long time. In the mandate of the previous government, he was already in the Government's normative work programme for 2005, and we did not see him in 2006, nor in 2007, nor in 2008. The current government has already been recognised as having succeeded in bringing the proposal for a family code before the National Assembly for the first year of its mandate. It organised a broad public debate, which we also continued in the National Assembly in the context of a public presentation of the opinion of the assembly of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. According to public performances and reactions, everyone is satisfied with the overwhelming part of this code. Many of the comments and strong objections we hear in the public are focused mainly on two things: the changed definition of family and the rights of same-sex partners. The family has always been a field of ideological warfare, even this time the expert arguments are supposed to be suppressed by ideological talk. So far, professional arguments have been rarely faced in the public eye, and even then they have been silenced by the dramatic outcry of opponents, who are united in the fact that they have not been able to rely on any professionally proven counter-argument. The view adopted by the Code, which we also wish to follow in the Group of Social Democrats, recognises that there is a difference in society that we accept, recognises that life patterns in society are not given once and for all, but change. The implementation of this view seeks to include in the legislation those solutions which guarantee the same rights to all types of partnerships and families and to individuals involved, which, last but not least, ensure the fundamental act of this country, the Constitution. On the contrary, anything that does not belong in the traditional social mold is understood as a threat, such as an attack on life, a family, as a violation of children’s rights or even a violation of the Constitution. That is why so many gallbladder reactions and direct claustrophobic predictions, what happens if the code is adopted. Here and now it must be made clear - save in the proposal of the family code do not endanger anyone, at least the Slovenian family or Slovenian nation. The law at this point only recognises and allows for a difference, does not promote it, does not encourage it, but eliminates discrimination in access to rights that do not have any real basis. In everyday life there are different family forms and partnerships, from single parents, two parents, reorganized, extended families to same-sex, adoptive and foster families. Some of them are completely overlooked and discriminated against in the current legislation, with consequences. For example, the failure to recognize the status of the same-sex family to have about 100 children living in these families does not constitute the right to inherit after the deceased partner, the family pension, the contact with non-biological parents, the insurance after the partner. Likewise, many rights are denied to their social parents, who live with them and care for them. The rights that belong to me, to you, to our children, in the name of whom, and why? Because we pretend that these forms of family are not in this society. However, the wealth of the proposed code is not only in the above-mentioned fact, but in the solutions that are hidden in the 300 articles of this family code. In my presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I would therefore like to stress in particular the other important content it brings and which is why it enjoys our full support. A key objective of the proposed Code is to improve the situation of children in family relations. The child's law and the principle of ensuring the greatest benefit of the child is a key source in all activities and procedures, including adoption. Including adoption. Such conduct is based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, followed by the Family Code proposal in its entirety. When it comes to defining the concept of a family is therefore a key child, without a child there is no family. In the new proposal, the family is defined as a community of children with one or both parents or other adults who care for the child and have certain obligations and rights under this Code to the child. The challenge comes from biological parenting to social parenting or to caring for a child with legal rights and obligations. The family should therefore be understood more broadly, as it includes different forms of community, the coexistence of an adult and a child. The family is therefore also a living community of foster parents and foster parents, the living community of the child and other persons who are placed in the care and care of the child, and the living community of the caregiver and the child if the child actually lives with the caregiver. In particular, the chapter on child benefit protection has been given a thorough overhaul. The Family Code for the Protection of Parental Care and, on the other hand, the benefit of the child explicitly lays down the principles to be respected when deciding on measures for the protection and benefit of children. Parents or parents are still primarily responsible for the child’s upbringing and care, but the Code defines to a greater extent the possibility and duty of the State to intervene in the family if the parents do not exercise their rights and duties or do not carry out their duties for the benefit of the child. The law separates the authorities from the professional and advisory functions. In addition to the urgent measures that can still be imposed by social work centres, the power to impose temporary and permanent measures shall be transferred to the court. This strengthens the professional and advisory role of social work centres. In this context, the proposal provides for early advice, expert advice, family mediation, not only in cases of divorce proceedings, but also in cases of child benefit measures. In order to improve the situation of the child in the proceedings, it is also envisaged that the institution of the child's advocate be established to ensure that the child's voice is heard and strengthened in the procedures and activities directly affecting the child. The next important novelty is the explicit prohibition of corporal punishment of children and other degrading forms of behaviour that binds not only parents but also other persons, public authorities and public service providers. Also in the area of marriage, the Code brings some novelties that we consider positive in the Group of Social Democrats. First of all, it is appropriate to limit that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court Decision, the Code equates the relationship of partners of different sexes, the relationship of same-sex partners with all the rights and obligations arising therefrom, including the social ones which are not governed by the law on the registration of same-sex partnerships. The recognition of the rights of same-sex partners is, in our view, a civil progress in the recognition of rights and a shift towards a more tolerant and tolerant society as a whole. The law also extends the range of possibilities for marriage. The marriage will then be easier to conclude outside the official premises, a formalistic conclusion without witnesses will be possible, and a remarrying ceremony will be possible at the jubilee of the marriage. Among the many positive news that may even be overlooked, there are too many to touch, I would like to point out another. The placement of an adult under guardianship and the appointment of a guardian under the proposed family code shall no longer be linked to the confiscation of that person's business ability, as governed by the applicable legislation. I know it's hard to imagine what this change in the life of this not-so-small group means. This is a change that, according to her representatives, restores human dignity and respect for their integrity. It seems important to me that the Ministry has listened to public debate and initiatives in this direction, and the proposal for a code includes solutions that make it even more human and even better. According to the Group of Social Democrats, this is a modern law that regulates all family law and strengthens the State's influence on family relations in the interests of the child. The law follows social reality and recognises the different forms of partnership and family and recognises their rights and obligations. With this in nothing threatens or reduces traditional forms of family, which is still our dominant ideal, but we must be aware, we do not all have this happiness to live in ideal families. In ideal families too often there are not exactly exemplary returns, abuse, violence, and other things. What counts is the quality of family relations. And by what is included in the code, we do not in any way reduce the role of a traditional family. The fear of this species is completely exaggerated. And once again, according to current research, the development of a child is not a decisive form of family but a quality of family relations, between parents and children. After all, we will support the Family Code proposal at first reading in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u6	Dear President, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! The proposed Family Code contains a number of good solutions, but it is unacceptable because it substantially changes the understanding of Slovenian family or marriage. For the first time in history, it is doomed because it completely ignores its natural, biological orientation towards a new life, the orientation with which everyone, especially the demographically endangered Slovenian nation, stands and falls. Let's do it in one order at a time. As has been said so far about the family, we did not have in mind the same - sex partnerships, but we had a husband, a husband, and a wife who had or who had not yet had a child because he may be on the road or is only supposedly biologically likely to be present. Even in the current Slovenian legislation, the concept of a family excludes a homosexual community and this discrimination is not against the Constitution, as even Article 53 of the Slovenian Constitution states: "The state protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection." A long time ago, before the Slovenian Constitution was written, the legal concept of a family was still based on the current law on marriage and family relations, which states in Article 2: "The family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children." Article 3 states: "The marriage is governed by the living community of husband and wife. The importance of marriage is in the founding of a family." And the Constitutional Court has never before established that this definition would be unconstitutional. On the contrary, changing this definition and understanding the family differently as understood by the Constitution would obviously be unconstitutional. The current Family Code proposal, referred to in Article 2, says: "The family is a living community of a child with either one or both parents or with another adult, if the child is cared for." And in Article 3, "The marriage is a community of two persons whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code." The sentence, which reads "the memory of marriage is in the founding of the family", is therefore no longer available. Last July, the Constitutional Court considered Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership and found that the law should be amended as regards inheritance between same-sex partners. In the explanatory statement, I quote: "We are talking about discriminatory treatment when the state treats individuals differently in the same situations on the basis of personal circumstances. The registered partner community is a relationship that is similar to that of marriage, and for this community, the key feature is the stable relationship of the two people close to each other, helping each other and supporting each other." As regards the relationship between partners, the Constitutional Court therefore considers them to be the same and the same. However, the Constitutional Court has not embarked on an area where there is a significant difference between the two communities. The biological orientation towards the beginning and birth of a new life is only present in a classical relationship and is an essential element of this relationship, as the current law in Article 3 confirms when it says, the importance of marriage is in the design of the family. In the explanation, the Constitutional Court also made it clear, and I quote: "If the situations we compare are not essentially the same, we cannot talk about non-constitutional discrimination." Such a Constitutional Court. Therefore, the different legal status of the marriage and the same-sex partnership in the area of the birth and birth of a child and the provision of appropriate circumstances for the development of its personality cannot constitute any discrimination against the homosexual community, but merely respect for natural biological data. Also, the listing of homosexual communities from the list of possibilities for adopters does not imply non-constitutionality and discrimination. It must be acknowledged, however, that the public debate on homosexuality is sometimes still burdened by misunderstandings and often by prejudices that can only be overcome by a clear and open debate on the causes and consequences of same-sex orientation. So let me take a short trip to the world of homosexuality. In doing so, I will count only the facts, and I will refrain from making a personal comment. The founders of modern psychoanalysis from the beginning of the previous century Freud [[?]] , Jung [[?]] , Adler [[?]] Homosexuality was viewed as a neurosis, thus the consequence of an unconscious childhood conflict. For 70 years, therapists and psychiatrists have taught that homosexuality is an emotional disorder caused by subconscious unresolved gender and personality conflicts. In 1973, under the pressure of a few but very aggressive homosexual groups, the American Psychiatry Association unexpectedly erased homosexuality from the list of psychiatric diagnosises, although there were no professional reasons. European psychology textbooks from the 1980s still viewed homosexuality as the most common form of sexual perversion. The Slovenian Medical Encyclopedia 1980 says, quote: "As a behavior, homosexuality is essentially linked to psychosocial causes that explain the diversity of its aspects. Treatment of homosexuality is primarily psychotherapeutic, except in symptomatic forms in which the cause should be treated. The most successful treatment is the treatment of neurotics who want to be treated." So the medical encyclopedia of 1980. The current Slovenian medical e-slovak speaks only of male and female sexual inversion. The official international classification of disease after 1992 in the chapter on mental disorder no longer mentions homosexuality. But while in Europe, with the delay of 10 to 20 years after the U.S., the view that homosexuality is a normal sexual orientation has already begun to be advertised in the United States by experts who have been increasingly trying and trying to prove the unnatural deviant nature of homosexual orientation on the basis of research results. Fisher and Greenberg wrote in 1996 that the vast majority of studies show that homosexual men in their childhood experienced their father as emotionally cold, unkind, punishing, brutal, distant and emotionally unavailable. And their quote: "There is not a single study among the studies we have found, at least as verifiable as a study in which homosexual men would describe their father as positive and lovingly inclined." So Fisher and Greenberg explain: "That a boy who at the age of 5 to 12 feels that he has not grown up to other boys is not male, does not belong to a father, to a man's world, and in puberty at the time of searching for his identity his sexual feelings connect to his greatest distress and longing to join the world of manhood. A heterosexual young man yearns for femininity because he thinks it's something mysteriously different and a homosexually sensitive young man yearns for manhood because it's not close to him because it's still a secret to him. So these two are the greatest United States experts in this area. In the last 15 years, a number of surveys have been conducted around the world on behavioural disorders or mental inclinations in the same sex. Let me list only the most important: a 1998 study in the United States - on 4 thousand adolescents, the Netherlands 1999 per thousand youth, the Netherlands 2001 per 6,000 adults, the United States 2003 - on 3 thousand adults, the United Kingdom 2003 - on adults, New Zealand 2005 - on adolescents. All of these studies have revealed several times more anxiety, severe depression, suicide attempts, nicotine dependence, alcohol, hard drugs, and similar behavioural deviations among same-sex patients compared to the heterosexual population. Dr. Robert Spitzer of Columbia University, U.S.A., was involved in the decision to remove homosexuality from the list of psychiatric diagnosises in America in 1973. 26 years later, in 1999, he spoke again to demonstrators, former homosexuals, who then demanded the right to therapy to change homosexual orientation. He was conducting a study in which he wondered how many of them had left homosexual life, the report, and for many years had lived a happy heterosexual life. He found out that out of 200 previously homosexual men and women, now, when he was doing research, he lived a satisfactory heterosexual life of 66% men and 44% women. Although he received a number of threats at the time of the same-sex rights research, if he published the study, he did publish it in 2003. One of the most important representative studies on sexual life in the United States, led by Edward Laumann, published in 1994 in Chicago, says: "All data suggest that homosexuality is not a stable focus, but with years of weakness and often disappear." Christl Ruth Vohnoldt, head of Deutsches Institut für Jusend und gesselschaft, wrote in a newspaper at the Institute in 2006: "Many people who experience and suffer their homosexuality through conflict have never even heard that there are therapies that can help those who want to develop a mature heterosexual potential. The political climate of our society prevents us from hearing this message. It also prevents therapists from hearing about it during their education. And the consequences? Therapists are increasingly less qualified to guide people for egodistonic homosexuality on their way out of their homosexual feelings." Just one sentence in the thought of this: "A man in distress, a man with an unnatural tendency, is not mocking, but trying to help and treat him if he is ready." Declaring homosexuality, as well as paedophilia and zoophilia as a normal or natural sexual orientation, means that a bear is a service to all those in distress and may want to free themselves from unnatural sexual orientation. And now to the essence of the question: Is the same-sex partnership a suitable environment for adoption of a child? Since the proponents of the proposed family code have constantly listened to the claim that there is no evidence of the negative impact of the same-sex partner environment on children's personal development, let me mention only the following findings. The American Institute for Marriage and Legislation issued a report on the basis of numerous research years ago and, with the participation of 12 leading scientists in this field under the leadership of William Doherty, which states: "Children from classical families are on average healthier, less addictive, more likely to achieve good school successes and diplomas. Children from same-sex or single-parent families are more vulnerable to mental disorders, suicide, addiction, school problems, and later criminal acts, such children are also more likely to be victims of sexual or physical abuse." Swiss Dr. A. Dean Byrda collected the results of decades of ongoing research in 2001 and completed [[Quote]] : "Children raised by different sex parents are easier to pass between different ages, are stronger in their sexual identity, are better cut off from school obligations, have less emotional problems and later function better than adults. In contrast, studies of children who were raised in same - sex communities show that girls become more assisted in their behavior and that boys are more maimed. Both are also more prone to experiment with homosexual sex than are normally raised children." All of these are facts that require serious consideration as to whether opening the door to adoption in the same-sex community makes the proposed family code a suitable basis for further consideration. Whether, at the proposed starting points, it is even possible to amend the marriage of a husband and a wife to be compatible with a homosexual partnership and to correct it in order to be acceptable. The deletion of the basic point of marriage in the design of a family, namely in the beginning and birth of a child and the formation of a suitable nest for it, means that we no longer value the optimal environment for the development of a child's personality, and that in meeting the wishes of same-sex communities to adopt a child, we are prepared to degrade the target asset, that is to turn it into a toy. There is also a Committee on Gender Equality at European Union level, which, ten years ago, proposed a recommendation to the Council of Europe Steering Committee on Bioethics that the same-sex partners be given the right to free choice on sexual and reproductive matters. The Bioethics Steering Committee then flatly rejected this initiative, as noted by former member of the Steering Committee for Bioethics of the Council of Europe, Prof. Dr. Jože Trontel, current president of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. It reads, quote: "They have found that the recommendation concerning children concerns only the interests of homosexual and lesbian couples and almost ignores the rights and benefits of children that such couples are supposed to adopt or acquire by means of extra-body fertilization techniques. Critics of the recommendation stressed that the child has a legitimate and important interest in having a father and a mother, and that there is no evidence that two fathers or two mothers or single parents or adoptive parents could satisfy this interest." So, Professor Trontel. Homosexual lobbies don't rest. Also on their initiative this year, on 27 January, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe addressed their proposal for a recommendation entitled "Discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity", which included the legalisation of adoption of children to same-sex couples. This time, too, the recommendation was rejected after a heated debate. The latest offensive of Slovenian homosexual policy is therefore not something special, but it is only part of a carefully organised world action financed mainly by American homosexual associations. What, in fact, is the reason that the Pahor government now insists on legalising the adoption of children by homosexual couples, including the price of the referendum rejection of the entire family code. In Slovenia it is now registered, i.e. on 22 January this year, 30 same-sex partnerships. Every year, between 25 and 30 children are adopted in Slovenia. However, requests from regulated materially supplied, classic marriages, are 10 times higher, 200 to 300. The cause of Slovenian aggressive homosexual policy cannot be found in the absence of natural families who would be willing to adopt an adoptive parent. In the 1960s, the world’s fertility experts took the lead in trying to find a cure for what some believe is a menacing threat to the explosion of the world’s population. One of the participants in the 1969 Dhaka conference cited 35 measures to reduce fertility. Among the first four, he cited a change in the ideal family image and an increase in the share of same - sex relationships. The reason that Pahor's government wants to change the ideal image of the family and favour same-sex relationships is also not to seek in fear of the demographic explosion of the Slovenian population, because we are one of the most demographically endangered nations in the world. The aim of the proposed alignment of classical marriage with the homosexual community cannot therefore be to open up new possibilities for adoption, because there is therefore no need, and not to prevent a demographic explosion, but obviously in the degradation of the classical family itself. In disrespect, disrespect, in the deletion of the second sentence of Article 3 of the current law on marriage and family relations, which reads: "The importance of marriage is in the design of a family." However, if we no longer recognize its natural and national origins, the birth and upbringing of a child, and compare it with a homosexual relationship, then there are no obstacles to adopting a homosexual couple, as well as pedophiles and zoophilis, because they are also a matter of some kind of sexual orientation on the basis of which discrimination is not permitted. Dear Members, honourable Members of the Coalition! Your insistence on radically grading the classical family reminds you of the Stalinistic obsession also described by Orlando Figes [[?]] In the translation of the Book of Whisperers last year, on page 27, he said: "The Bolsheviks first hit the family. In the 20s, the claim that the urban family is a socially harmful phenomenon has been raised. [[?]] in religious truth. It is supposed to be an engrossed and old - fashioned fortress of faith, superstition, ignorance, and prejudice that promotes selfishness and greed for material things and oppresses women and children. The patriarchal family will die out with its sexual morality, the radicals believed it would be replaced by free love." So Orlando Figes in the book Whisperers. Your Honor! In recent months, the Slovenian Democratic Party has twice submitted to the procedure for supplementing the Act on the same-sex partnership community, by which, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's request, the regulation of mutual duties and rights applicable to the same-sex partnership community would be equivalent to that applicable to the marriage of the husband and wife, but you have both strongly rejected this distinction. It would be right and right that same-sex partners have the right to shape their lives according to their will and that their relations are also legally protected. However, it is not right for a family to be evaluated under the protection of their rights and for a child to be turned into a toy. If a child loses his parents, without his family, and without his home, the state must take care of him. In the search for a suitable adoptive parent, however, the State must first and foremost follow - not the desire of the adoptive parent, but the alleged wishes of the child and its benefits. Of course, alcoholism, violence, sexual perversion, divorce may also occur in traditional marriages, but when a child is assigned to adoption, this relationship must be arranged, healthy, stable. The environment to which the State trusts the child must be as healthy and natural as possible. A banal comparison with the purchase of a new car may help to better understand this view. On the roads we also see cars with broken lights, bad brakes, used tires, but when you buy and register, so there must be a car at the starting point, for the safety of passengers flawless. Respectable. This code is the most important document for hundreds of thousands of Slovenian families and their children who can lose their parents in the event of an accident. If, in spite of their decisive opposition, they are accepted as proposed, we will do our utmost to have the last word of the people to whom the code is intended. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u7	I welcome visitors and visitors and tell them that they are welcome, but I also warn them that they must adhere to the rules. This is so that they do not interfere with the work of the National Assembly by their conduct, applause, or anything. I have issued this warning on the basis of Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to follow it further. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague. Respectable public. The first two presentations of the opinions of the members of the groups confirmed me in the belief that the Slovenians are one big family and that, of course, we are also acting quite familyally, that our biggest injuries are our greatest fights, our greatest fights are mutual, brotherly. I hope that we will be able to do so, even when the family needs to be united and inclusive, that we will not count ourselves as white and black sheep, because it is the only unity that has led us through history to this point that today we can discuss this, or any other law that governs the lives of our citizens and citizens. Within three decades of the adoption of a valid law on family relations and family relations, family life and family life were changing, just as it had changed throughout history. Professional research and many statistics point to the pluralization of families, many diverse family forms, or communities. The proportion of classical, nuclear, two-parent families is decreasing, as more than half of all Slovenian children are now living in different family communities. They live in reorganized families, single - parent families, which are about a fifth of us, in foster families, in extended families, and, yes, in same - sex families. More than half of children are born today to unmarried parents. In order to capture all the diversity and complexity of family life, we must respect the family's inclusive definition, the definition by which we do not discriminate, we take nothing from anyone, we do not endanger anyone, and we do not devalue anything. This is the accepted universal definition of the family, which was established by a group of family experts, led by Professor Wilfred Demon from the Catholic University of Leuven or French Louvain in Belgium, during the International Year of Families at the United Nations Organization in 1994. So this is the definition accepted by most of humanity, I admit, not all humanity. There are certain countries which, for example, are not members of the United Nations, for example, the Vatican State is such, but I believe that in the case of Slovenian citizens there is no loyalty to that country or loyalty to any other country, whether they have dual citizenship or if they do not, if they perform any function or if they do not. This is therefore an accepted universal definition of the family. And this is how a family is referred to as a person or a group of persons who care for a child or children. Basically in this family, then, in each family, the parental relationship between the child and the adult caregiver. The foundation, the essence of the family, is not its form, not its sex, or the sexual orientation of parents, but its content. A relationship of trust, care that provides a child with a safe and loving environment for development. The essence is the quality of the parental role. The principle of child benefit is essential. No more parental rights than before, because a child is not owned, there is no one's property, but some of us have more responsibilities and obligations to our children than others. The solutions in the proposed Family Code follow this social reality. In the first place and mainly for the sake of children and their benefits. Not in the account or in the exercise of the rights of a traditional family, but in the recognition of rights to all others, in the confirmation of the reality and co-existence of diversity in society. In its position, the Constitutional Court has established that sexual orientation is a personal circumstance and that, as a result of the Constitution, distinction on the basis of this personal circumstance is not permissible. Only by means of such proposed legal arrangements can we fully follow the position of the Constitutional Court that two persons of the same sex are living in a society of the same legal and factual backgrounds as is the case for a marriage governed by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Since the distinction between the administrative arrangements of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, is not based on any matter, nor on personal circumstances, but on sexual orientation, as stated by the Constitutional Court, the code of the same-sex community in all its elements is equivalent to that of the marriage. And, of course, the Constitutional Court has already said that it is similar to a good relationship to regulate with the same legislation. All countries that have regulated this area in recent years have also opted for such a path because specific segregation legislation, due to the complexity and interconnection of legislation, does not allow for equal and effective constitutional legal certainty. Such legal arrangements will also allow for legal recognition of adoptions, and of course the rights of children who are already being exercised abroad by the same-sex partners, and in particular will allow adoption of children born on an artificial basis, of course abroad, because the legislation does not allow this in us, by the same-sex partners and others, about 100 children who are now mostly living in lesbian families in Slovenia. So these same - sex families are natural. They're focused on life, raising fertility. It's just that life always finds its way, and it's not our job to interfere with it, it's to help it not to decide against life, it's to live. And that's what this is all about. Although the proposal also allows same-sex couples to register as potential adopters in the case of so-called pure adoptions, we are truly aware that, according to social reality, and above all, deep-rooted prejudices, which also appear in the defence of alleged professional, scientific research, those cited, will rarely tell about the method, the number of researchers involved: Briefly, where the true scientific attribute is. This is, of course, what history has long rejected, to create the view that homosexuality is, of course, the same-sex disease that can be treated, even though it is considered that we are no more normal than the same-sex species, it is just more of us, and that does not mean that we cannot allow this diversity and difference. In short, as a result of all of this, we are aware in our Group that it is likely that years will pass if not decades before any of the newly established specialised family courts in a particular case is decided that the best way to realize the benefits of the child is to have the same family. Such adoptions, which most here also present to the public concerned, in short, will not be very soon, if ever. Although all relevant studies show that the development of children in such families is not significantly different from in traditional families. American scientists, Judith Stacey and Timonthy J. Biblarz published a study last February, in fact, of 80 research researchers, and no relevant study between these 80 in fact shows that the development of children in same-sex families is significantly different from the development of children in different sexes, although there will always be tendency quasi scientists who want to challenge these facts. Slovenia is part of Europe. That's what we wanted, that's what we did on our own, when we set up a country. In a wide range of areas, economic, environmental, social, we like to follow the most developed, most successful countries in Europe and the world, and I see no reason for us to look beyond the most developed European countries, which have already confirmed this social reality in their legislation. The basic objective of the Code is to improve the situation of children in family relations, for example, before the proceedings in court, during the proceedings and after the completion of the proceedings. Only by doing so will we be able to ensure more effectively the implementation of the principle of the protection of the benefit of the child, which is the fundamental principle of our social law, and whoever thinks what he wants. This is why the Institute of Child Advocates and Family Mediation are established. Progress is also the division of competence between the centres for social work, which remain professional work, and the courts. The central records and the management of adoption procedures are also more appropriately regulated than they have been so far. In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that the family is a field of privacy in which the country can be cut down only in exceptional and, of course, in well-founded cases, for a reason. We are therefore pleased that the Ministry has also taken account of some of our proposals. 7. Article 7 of the Code, which lays down the principles of the child’s benefit, for example, in the first version of the parents, other persons and public authorities, was cited in the same sentence. Now the diction clearly distinguishes between parents and others, with the aim of maintaining appropriate boundaries. Thus, parents have priority over others in their care and responsibility for their children. We are parents who are primarily responsible for the child’s benefit. We also played a special role in positive parenting. To this end, conditions for civil society, such as parental training to prevent physical violence against children, are established. While this domestic violence is already punishable by the Penal Code and the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, the Family Code provides that parents, as well as other persons, public authorities and public service providers, must not expose the child to any form of corporal punishment or other form of degrading treatment. With these principles, we set a clear ethical standard. The proposal of the Family Code simplifies the conditions for marriage, regulates the conclusion of prenuptial contracts and introduces some innovations that will facilitate the existence of families in the 21st century. The family code is intended primarily for us who have decided for our family in this century and for all who will do so. The family code does not speak of the values of the past from the beginning of the previous century, 80 years of the previous century, even 90, if you will. It speaks of the values of the future, in accordance with the Constitution protects parenthood, paternity, motherhood and creates the conditions for the creation of a family. For everything we have said, we will really support the Family Code proposal. However, we would like the debate to take place in a reasoned, rational and free of conjecture and unnecessary stress. We are convinced that the Family Code, like the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia, is not to be feared.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Jakob Presječnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, at the outset, let me say that we will not support the adoption of a family code in so far as there will remain disputed provisions that equate sexual relations with the marriage of husband and wife. In particular, we oppose Article 3, which unwarrantedly equates same-sex relationships with the marriage of husband and wife, thereby allowing the adoption of children to be possible for the same-sex partners. Such provisions do not follow the objective of protecting the right of children, but only seek to exercise the artificial right of same-sex partners to adopt children by means of such provisions. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we expected the Government to withdraw from the Family Code the disputed provisions of the Family Code proposal. There is no valid reason for such a controversial change to open up unnecessary ideological debates in society. The reasons for such a radical change in the marriage union in the proposal for a code are not legally justified and the consequences of protecting the child's benefit have not been adequately investigated. Therefore, it makes sense to maintain the existing arrangement of marriage as a community of husband and wife, whose importance is to establish an environment, mutual commitment and affection between the partners and at the same time in the design of the offspring. The current regulation of the marriage and its legal relations is indeed well founded. The fundamental interest of every state and social community, whether recognised or not, is natural reproduction, and this is only possible in nature between partners of different sexes. Once again, I would like to stress that the Code at first reading would be supported if there were no such disputed provisions which have nothing to do with the purpose of this Code, namely the protection of children and their rights. We are convinced that in certain articles it is primarily about regulating the rights of one at the expense of the other, in this case at the expense of the children. So, it's not true and it doesn't hold that the basic purpose of the code is to protect the benefit of children, in this disputed part certainly not. During the public presentation of the opinions in the letter to the Minister and in the letter to the President of the Government, the Slovenian People's Party called for the withdrawal of the provisions in question and we have not received a written reply until today. Such content of the proposal for a new family code which has no connection with children's rights, such as this disputed article, is unacceptable to the SLS Group. It is inappropriate to refer the drafter to a constitutional decision and to generalise it on any changes that are in the Family Code and that change the definition of a family and on this basis equate same-sex communities with a classic marriage. And it's wrong to associate a man and a woman with a same-sex community. It is true that the Constitution provides for equality, but they can only be equal on the same basis. The same-sex couple by nature cannot have a common child, so in this regard, such a community cannot be the same as a heterosexual couple, since the essence of a marriage is the creation of a family, that is, the birth of joint children. Positive legislation should strengthen the family's reputation rather than further abolish the institution in its daily struggle for survival, which remains the only safe point for each individual. It is a pity that such contentious provisions in the public do not sufficiently discuss professional solutions and better, faster procedures for regulating other family relationships, such as intervention in the family for the benefit of a child, which is however necessary, and because of excessive procedures it can also leave irreparable consequences on children. We particularly support the introduction of a child's rights advocate and the prohibition of corporal punishment of children. We support the news, this is a family mediation that can take place before, during and after the trial, and on all family-related issues. Mediation should be carried out by centres for social work and courts, but also by other natural or legal persons. We propose that this provision be further examined and improved, that procedures are not duplicated and that they are not too long. Most likely, children’s protection and upbringing disputes will be dealt with most frequently when the marriage is divorced or after the dissolution of the extramarital community, which are always the most stressful and prolonged for children. Even more important, it seems to us that counseling to the family would be possible before such situations arise that the only way out is divorce. Aid and advice, i.e. the introduction of a prior counselling system for existing families, could save a number of marriages. In doing so, the profession points out that the usual compulsory counseling does not produce results. Nevertheless, it is an opportunity for parents to access certain information that can lead to a more favourable solution for the child. Social workers also expect better solutions from the proposed sharing of competences to decide on the measures of social work centres and courts aimed at the rapid protection of the child when the child is so severely threatened that the only way out is to take it away from the parents immediately. All these innovations offer an opportunity for more effective assistance and child protection, of course, provided that in practice it is actually implemented consistently and professionally. In this regard, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are once again reminded that special family courts are lacking because experts who are currently understaffed will be able to quickly and professionally decide for the benefit of the child. This is a very sensitive area, because it is an invasion of privacy, an invasion of the family. We therefore expect the Government to take care of the introduction of special family courts, as regular courts are already overloaded with the current judicial backlog. Without this measure, such beautifully recorded provisions will not be implemented. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that because of the acute economic situation, we are also in a crisis of values. We believe that the traditional family is still a fundamental cell of society. By adopting a new family code, in which the current government coalition proposes the possibility of adopting children by same-sex partners, the family and marriage would be fully evaluated. The government coalition is trying to convince the public that it has information about the same-sex communities that are supposed to live with children and that it is simply trying to regulate something that is already supposed to be a practice in the Slovenian social space. The answer from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the Member's question from our parliamentary group is that they do not have data on children in same-sex communities at all. The only figures are, as they say, 30 same-sex communities were registered in Slovenia by January of this year. Therefore again in this place in the SLS Group we ask the coalition, asking the Government on the basis of which the coalition is convinced that they want to legislate, without social consensus and without public support, something that has no basis or basis in research, not in actual figures. We therefore note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its proposal for a family code, only wants to regulate the rights of same-sex communities on account of children's rights. If anything needs to be corrected or regulated in relation to the same-sex relations in matters of property law, inheritance, social security and the like, this cannot be the reason for equalizing the marriage of husband and wife with same-sex relationships and cannot be compared with the traditional natural family. Children's rights must not be suffered at the expense of the rights of others, in this case of same-sex partnerships, and therefore we cannot support the code containing such provisions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, which is a Christian people's democratic party, we will unconditionally support marriage, family and its positive discrimination, as it is a fundamental social group in which children naturally acquire vital values, experience and knowledge. A family that offers a male and female education dimension is irreplaceable and any other option puts the child in an unequal position. As I pointed out in the introduction, we will not support the proposal for a family code at first reading in the Slovenian People's Party Group. Further support will depend on the acceptance or rejection of the corresponding amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings to the Minister and the ministers and colleagues and colleagues! The reform of family law, which took place gradually and only in part in the drafting of the text of the family code, was the result of the need to adapt the legal order of the family area to modern and real family situations. Thus, the new family constitution is intended to replace 35 years of old family legislation, which is certainly necessary for radical changes. These dictate not only the need for formal adjustments to modern society, but also the practice of domestic and European courts and, in particular, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the situation of same-sex partnerships is regulated. As a whole, the Family Code is quite modernised, based on the practice of courts and centres for social work, knowledge and theory and, of course, takes over today's actual practice and the issue of marriage and family life as such. More comprehensively and more appropriately, the whole family law must be regulated in the interests and interests of children, which means that the influence of the State on relations within the family must be strengthened, in particular in terms of intervention in these relations in order to protect the child's benefits. The Family Code is intended to improve the situation of the child in a family relationship, while at the same time the competent services should be forced to resolve matters more quickly in the family field and to strengthen the professional and advisory role of social work centres. The latter also showed tragic events that took place a few months ago, the result of which, unfortunately, was the death of a child or children when they did not have enough information or competence at the competent social work centre and the necessary knowledge to remove children from a dangerous environment. Children as a special vulnerable group, dependent on adults who do not have special political power, do not have electoral rights and lobbying opportunities, but have a limited approach to complaint mechanisms, urgently need their advocate, whose work is currently far from being performed by the Ombudsman, who has too much work. Slovenia, by means of a family code, finally introduces the Institute of Child Defenders, which children urgently need, which we particularly welcome in the DeSUS Group. The proposal also offers a broader concept of family. This means that a family creates a child, even if it lives with only one parent. The family, therefore, is no longer just a family of children with both parents but also a community with one parent. Families may also be considered to be communities in which a child lives with someone other than his parent or adoptive parent, provided that this relationship is lasting and that the community is generally close to the family community of parents and children. The country will have a greater chance of interfering with family relations. The corporal punishment of children is prohibited and, as has already been said, the institution of the child’s advocate is being established. The proposal also brings urgent measures, temporary measures and measures of a more lasting nature. Taking a child is also an emergency when the child is seriously at risk. However, the Court's orders will have to be awaited in order to implement this urgent measure. Measures for the protection and protection of children shall be carried over from social work centres to district courts. Social work centres, however, will have a primary role to play in family counselling and mediation. In addition to other changes, news about marriage and extramarital communities is also foreseen as regards marriage, since it will be possible to marry only in front of the mother and without witnesses. The proposal also offers the possibility of repeating the ceremony at jubilee and a very important novelty, which is the possibility of regulating the content of the property and the property arrangement. With the marriage contract. Otherwise, as the proponents state, the basic objective is to improve the situation of children in family relations mainly before, during and after the proceedings before the court. This will almost fully transfer the decision on child protection measures from social work centres to district courts. A more rapid resolution of matters in the family area is also a very important objective. This is extremely important when it comes to deciding on measures to protect the child, as long-term procedures can cause irreparable harm to the child’s development. One of the most important news brought by the bill is that for the first time in the Republic of Slovenia it prohibits the corporal punishment of children, which binds both parents and other persons, state authorities and public service providers. At this point, however, there is clearly the greatest flaw in the law's proposal that it does not provide for the sanctioning of corporal punishment of children. As a reflection of a modern company, we can also mark the novelty in the regulation of the mutual property relations between partners, namely the possibility of contractual regulation of the mutual property relationship in the form of matrimonial offers. Of course, after the review, we also have some questions that we hope will be answered in the legislative process itself. Finally, let me tell you how we will vote in the Group of Members. Our vote will not be united, we will vote in our conviction, and most of my colleagues will support the Family Code proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u14	Good day to you all! Today we have a marriage that could be very good, but it has one big mistake - to abuse these positive solutions to force adoptions of children into the same-sex partners. I'm not going to talk about these things that are good solutions. These good solutions are good in themselves. I'm going to talk about abuse, about the disgusting abuse of coalition parties who are trying to get their twisted sexual affairs into this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u15	I would like to warn you in advance that you are placating your words, that you do not offend fellow Members and Members and that you are actually behaving with dignity in the National Assembly! Please, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u16	Mr President, I'm not hurting anyone, I'm telling the truth!Oh, my God! I think the Slovenian public knows what the truth is, even though you are trying to destroy it here in the National Assembly through the terrorism of coalition parties, to ban people from telling what they think, what they want! Mr. President! You probably know that the European Convention on the Adoption of Children does not allow the adoption of same-sex partners! It is true that the Republic of Slovenia has not signed this Convention, despite the fact that it is the European Convention. You also prefer your wishes over Europe when it suits you. You are willing to simply deny the rights of children and allow some of the chosen ones to allow themselves what they can afford. Let me tell you one case. Look, like, Janek comes home and says, "Mummy, come on, please, give me a new shirt, I've got it dirty." And Mommy said, "Well, I'm not your mommy." And Janek said after a while, "Well, Mommy, give me something to eat, because I'm so hungry." And Mommy said, "You know, I'm not your mommy." Then said John, Mommy, I am so sorry, give me a bit of a grip. And Mommy said, "Yeah, I'm not your mommy." And John said, Yea, how then shall I say unto thee? And Mommy said, "Tell me like everybody else, Uncle Tone." Is that what you want?Oh, my God! Is that what you're looking for?Oh, my God! Imagine these adoptions of two old homosexuals who get one little boy and then bathe together in a bath. That's great!Oh, my That's great!Oh, my [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u17	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u18	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on.]] Aren't you ashamed, Mr. President? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u19	I have taken your word away from you, and again I warn you to remain within the limits of your dignity. Contravention of the code, individual provisions, can be expressed in a much more cultured manner. Please follow the tradition of this House and stick to some of the minimum ethical standards of the word spoken. I give you my word and give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u20	Yes, as you warn me, you will warn many more. In the end, I hope you get your portion at the polls. I have two little girls and I know what I'm saying. I know what I'm saying. No, Mr. Rozle, no, Mr. Rozle, I'm not same-sex. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u21	Mr. Jelinčič, you have named Mr. Rojole. This is extremely rude and demeaning, humiliating, that is, the address of your colleague and my fellow Member, Mr Rojo. I expect you to maintain a normal ethical standard of treatment and treatment for your colleagues, even if you do not agree with them. I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u22	Mr President, if we knew Slovenian literature, we would know that Rozle is a very positive person in Kekc. Would it be nice if you read this Vandot story, it would be very interesting. May I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u23	Please, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. You know, Mr President, it would be nice to warn your colleagues, those who so advocate for same-sex partners, to be a little quiet in the National Assembly. I will appeal here to a party in which I believe there is still some healthy spirit, these are the Social Democrats, who, in spite of everything, think differently that they are willing to protect children from abuse, because I am convinced that the purpose of these adoptions by the same-sex partners is sexual abuse. Today in Slovenia we have severe problems with sexual perversions related to Bulmastif. Should we expect the same coalition to propose next time to cripple paedophilia? Can we expect the coalition to be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u25	Mr. Jelinčič, I took your word. Mr Jelinčič, I ask you to remain within the limits of dignity and within the limits of articles and discussions on the articles set out in the proposal for a family code. Please do not go from these frameworks to hold a debate, which until your performance has been quite cultivated, convincing and has enabled both Members and Members of Parliament and others to identify and express these things. Please do not go against this definition in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u26	The difference between members of the Slovenian National Party and other fellow Members and parties is that our client tells us what people think and how people feel. We are not politicians or those who would change legislation for their own benefit in order to please them. You won't be able to do that in our client. And if I can't say this, you're just proving, Mr President, what democracy we have in Slovenia. No democracy at all. We have a totally confused country that allows some of the political peaks and political circles to do everything, including adapting the laws written on their skin. I think it's a crime against children you're going here. And to do this version of yours through legislation, you're willing to do everything else beautifully so that people wouldn't say, yeah, look, because it was a good marriage, just that little thing was wrong. But it's just that little thing that's predominant. That's what's most wrong. Those of us who have children are afraid of this because we keep thinking about it. Those who already have different options and different thinking with their own children will defend this. I hope that this law will not go through if it still has in it this postulate of adoption, which will be carried out by same-sex. I'm sorry, but Europe doesn't recognise this. Slovenia has already proven to be what we are. Unfortunately, if I may, Mr President, tell him an adventure from a few days ago when I was in Austria, in Graz, with a friend and he told me because I was telling him a while ago what was going on with their Fritzle, he said to me: Doch, Doch, wir haben, aber Siegen Hundfickers. I was shocked to the end because this is the opinion Europe has on Slovenia. It's fucking sad. And who's to blame? Certainly not the opposition or so much less the Slovenian National Party. If you don't believe me, I can bring this gentleman here. Things are terrible. And with this horror you intend to continue in this law. I don't know what people are gonna say about that. And from what I hear, you are lobbying in the Constitutional Court to have the Constitutional Court pre-prepared a ban on the referendum on this virtuosity in this law. As I have learned, certain gentlemen from coalition parties - not all of them, I must say that not all, but certain gentlemen from coalition parties are already running through the Constitutional Court and convincing and to some extent even forcible that this matter must be confirmed and the referendum should not be carried out. That's great! You have everything under control. And the Constitutional Court. You accept the laws as you do. That's terrible! That's terrible! There's something else I could say, but the truth in the National Assembly is not welcome. You're always looking for words that talk about hate speech, I don't know what it's all about, but hate speech is something repulsive, having sex with dogs is something common. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u27	Mr. Jelinčič, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u28	and things like that. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u29	You've crossed the limits of the permissive. The way you speak in the National Assembly is extremely offensive. And I must be honest, I would have taken your word away if the coalition had a majority right now, so that we could vote on it if there was an objection. I'm afraid we don't have it, so I have to give you my word. That's it, I tell you the truth and the truth. Mr Jelinčič, please continue, but in a tone that allows for a normal debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u30	Mr President, you are proving once again that you are trying, by force, to suppress the thought, thinking, and thinking of 90% of the Slovenian population. [[The ad in the hall.]] That's true too, maybe even 95%! Thank you so much for fixing it. It is sad that this is a way of blackmailing and not allowing debate. I always thought that Parliament was the place where we could say everything, because Parliament was supposed to grow up to be the best. But it seems that everything else is growing, mainly weeds that don't produce real fruit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Parliament is a place where we can say everything, but with respect for other people who have different opinions. Procedural proposal, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u32	The well-respected president of the National Assembly, how you manage this meeting, is your business. However, we will not allow you to interfere in our time, so I would ask you to assign back to us what you took from us with your speeches, because you spoke almost more than our President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u33	We definitely stopped the microphone when we talked. Please try to replace the time that was taken from him - two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u34	No, no, you'll see how much you took from him. Not two minutes! Take a look!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u35	My decision is two minutes. Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be moved by Ljubo Germič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The government has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new family law that will systematically regulate the whole area of family law. The applicable law on marriage and family relations of 1976 no longer corresponds to changes in society. There is a vast, modern law ahead of us, which comes to the modern society as we want to be. We are talking about the law as a response to the situation in society and the appropriate time in which we live, with modern civilisation standards included. In the last 35 years, we have also experienced different forms of family life. We also received many atypical families from traditional families. Thus, in Slovenia currently there are good 75% of children in a family with both parents and about 25% of children with only one parent. It's a reality. But we don't have statistics on how many children live in same-sex families. According to some estimates, these children are currently expected to be around 100. In addition, according to 2007 data, 50 % of all children born outside marriages are good. Unfortunately, the previous government did not want to systematically regulate the issues of different forms of living communities, and a law on the registration of same-sex partnerships was adopted in 2005 despite warnings of certain non-constitutional solutions. From that period, there is a well-known statement by the then Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Mr Drobnič, that same-sex partnerships are not a matter of his ministry, but of the Ministry of Health. It's been five years since the adoption of that law. We have held a broad debate on the content of the family code. But in the LDS Club we express disappointment about the level of this debate, which often goes beyond impatient speech, but interferes with the content of the hate speech, which treats diversity discriminatoryly, despite the fact that the Constitution clearly tells us that it is not permissible to violate human rights and fundamental freedoms on the basis of any personal characteristics. Thus, in 2009 the Constitutional Court ensured that Article 22 of the previous Act was inconsistent with the Constitution. In the decision, the Constitutional Court stated that the legal regime of a registered same-sex partnership was similar to that of a marriage, a distinction in legal consequences, e.g. In terms of inheritance, however, it is not based on some real, non-personal different circumstances, but on sexual orientation, which means discrimination. The proposal for a family code now regulates this unconstitutionality at systemic level. The key point of the family code is for the child and to ensure his or her benefits. This is, in our view, the most important part of the code. All intervention and resolution procedures at social work centres and courts must be carried out quickly, in the light of the child's benefits, to withdraw the child from the proceedings as soon as possible and to enable him to live normally. For some time there has been criticism in the public at the expense of long-term proceedings in the case of divorces and child care, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support a clear separation between the work of courts and social work centres, which will have a strengthened advisory and professional role. In the meantime, the District Courts will decide on measures to protect the benefit of children, foster care, adoption, removal of children from the family, custody, etc. We welcome the introduction of day-to-day courts that will help to speed up the proceedings. Finally, we will appoint an advocate of children's rights, and warnings about this have already appeared several times in the Ombudsman's reports. We also fulfil the obligation given by the ratification of international instruments, the Code clearly sets out the prohibition of the punishment of children, as provided for in Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The proposal for a new code governs the marriage and the relationship between spouses and the non-marital community. It also regulates parent-child relationships, sets out the form of State assistance to the problems of partner and family life, fostering and caring for children and other persons in need of special protection. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the new definition of concepts in the family code and the proposed solutions, because the consideration underlying the solutions to the law is the care and benefit of the child, respect for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental human rights. Above all, the proposed family law has one basic principle, and this is the protection of the child's benefits. All other solutions are subordinated to this. Adoptions are also about children's rights and finding the best solution for them. In the event of adoption, malicious interpretations of the adoption provisions by same-sex couples arise. These couples will be in the same position as the other applicants, which means that they will be subjected to the same strict treatment and final decision of the court. Above all, let us stress that adoptions are always about finding suitable parents for the child and not the other way around. Since the child’s benefit is the most important and the family deserves the special care of the state, the new law introduces a changed concept of family. A family creates a child - if there is no child, there is no family. So the family means "a union of a child with a parent or a child with one parent or adoptive parent or one adult caring for him and having rights and obligations to a child under the law." This is in line with social reality, and we finally formally recognize single - parent families. In accordance with the Constitutional Decision, the concept of marriage is redefined. The marriage is defined as a community of two persons of the same sex or of different sexes. This equation goes beyond the discrimination of same-sex partners living between us, but they have not been granted the same rights and responsibilities as the rest of them. Extramarital communities are also levelled. In Slovenia, more than half of the children are born in extra-marital communities, so in our opinion, an extremely important solution is in the code, which states that "in case a child is born or adopted in an extra-marital community, this community has no need to prove that it has existed for a long time. We are confident that there will be a solution to a good public response in the law, that the conclusion of the marriage after the new can be done less formally - without witnesses, outside the official premises and so on - and the possibility of signing marriage contracts. Family mediation is being reintroduced, which we welcome in the LDS, because it is good if as many disputes are resolved as possible over the courts. These procedures will be more user-friendly, cheaper and personalised. Let me now touch on the work of the Code, which has triggered such violent reactions and differing opinions in the public. Currently, there are about 100 children living in Slovenia in same-sex families. It's mostly about lesbian communities. These children are discriminated against compared to other children. They are not equal to other children because the communities in which they live have not been recognised as equal compared to other forms of family. In particular, we stress that this law does not take anything away from traditional families, but only equates and recognises the same rights to all kinds of families in this country. Because of the prejudices that a certain part of the public has, stereotypes that are powered by false or biased research, ignorance of different forms of community or ignorance, these children are punished for the sexual orientation of their parents. In our Group of Members, we find this unacceptable, since it is discriminatory from the point of view of the child's rights. As we respect equality, equality and tolerance in the LDS, we believe that children's rights, including the possibility of adopting children in the same sex of life, need to be uniformly regulated. In doing so, we stress that we are talking about real and not some hypothetical children. It is children who are biological children of one of the partners, whether adoptions have been carried out abroad, or whether the fertilization has been carried out abroad where this is permitted. Since nonbiological parents cannot adopt these children, many rights are denied to these children. If I only list some: other parents, i.e. non-biologically, cannot use hospital leave for the care of a child, they cannot be medically insured by another parent, a host of problems appear in school, and of course this child cannot inherit from his or her parent’s partner and others. I don't think there's anyone who would want any of the children to deny these rights. In the LDS, we cannot understand the claim that children's rights and fundamental family values are being defended by opposing the adoption of same-sex couples. This will not endanger any right or value of traditional families. They are worse off and will continue to be just children in same-sex communities. In LDS, we do not support the regulation of family law in different laws, as this speaks in itself of the distinction. This distinction becomes even more evident when it comes to warnings about stigmatisation and discrimination against children in same-sex communities. In our view, it is the single regulation of all issues and all forms of families in one place, which also sets out a single family policy of the country aimed at efforts to combat stigmatisation. We can't keep our eyes closed that stigmatization doesn't happen and that it won't happen in the future. Children are stigmatized today. We can witness this by looking with our eyes open in reality. Children may be subject to certain stigmatisations due to different circumstances, whether they come from a poor or single parent family or are large, smaller or otherwise. Stigmation of all kinds is a reflection of the actions and thinking of adults and not children. All relevant research suggests that children from same - sex families have no more problems than their peers in traditional families. There is also no difference in the development and educational role of parents in same-sex and different sexual families. The claim that you have to be a father and a mother do not stand a serious judgment, since at the moment in Slovenia there is a quarter of children in single-parent families. So the question arises in itself: What will we do with children who are already living without one of the parents? Are we going to confiscate or deprive them of certain rights? I don't think anyone's thinking about it. If I quote Boris Viszak from his article in a newspaper that deals with seven prejudices about adoption in the same-sex family. It says something like this: "Let's be careful when we say that the upbringing of children in same-sex families is immoral, because for example, for believers, for example, the upbringing of children in the atheistic spirit is immoral. Some believe that drinking and gambling are immoral. And we could also list different cases. Prejudice and stereotypes must not lead us to decide on the rights of children and the rights of minorities, before the rights of the given do not endanger them or diminish the rights of anyone else." Some of today’s self - centered rights have not yet been recognized in recent history. Let me remind you that women in this country have been given electoral rights very late in the previous century, but there is certainly no one today who would view the granting of this right as a wrong decision in the past. Norms in one society are not set up forever. They must change according to civil progress. In the LDS, we believe that it is finally time to eliminate discrimination against same-sex communities in Slovenia. Citizens have the right to demand from their country that laws, standards are fair and equal for all citizens. In the LDS, we believe that the most important relations for children are in a family where all family members show respect, affection, trust and love, not family form. Quality relations in the family, which are most important for the healthy development of the child, are not limited to traditional families. They are distributed evenly across all families, as well as family violence and problems. And that we can actually face in reality every day. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the family code because it is a modern law that governs all relations in the family: between partners and children, respects human rights and prevents discrimination against certain social groups and their children. We are aware that part of the public is upset, but we are convinced that there are no grounds for concern. By adopting the family code, all children will be safer and better provided, and the law will also give them a family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The debate on the family code does not fall into empty space. A well-organised civil society that advocates one aspect of the treatment of the family code and that substantiates its position on the repeated thesis that a child has the right to the father and mother. And I join those who speak for all families, for the rights of all children and for human rights. I am sorry that I have not been able to respond to a number of electronic messages from all those who want to convince me that the family code is an example of a law that does not establish a fundamental objective and principle, that is the rights of all children. And I'm pretty sure he's putting the family's legitimate interests in the center. I think it is good and good that in one place there is a relationship between a child and an adult, between a child of any sex and an adult of any sex, between a child, between a number of children and between adults. Therefore, I believe that there is more concern about the unconstitutionality of certain provisions of the family code, which defines the family differently than has been defined by the family so far, and which comes from the position of the United Nations in the mid-1990s, which defines the family just as a community of children and adults. And why do I think that? If I add a new definition of marriage to the definition of family and refer to Article 53 of the Constitution, then we follow Article 53 and see what it says. The marriage is based on the equality of spouses and is concluded before the competent national authority. This is now regulated in the family code. We all agree on equality, there's no talking about sex. The marriage, in the second paragraph, and the legal relations in it, within the family and in the extramarital community are governed by law. And that is precisely the purpose of the family code, to regulate these relationships within the marriage community and to regulate the relationship between spouses and parents and children. And for me, the third paragraph is the most important, and I don't know why some people seem to be so troubled, but you have to read it carefully and separate it. The country protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. And I am convinced that the family code creates exactly the conditions under which children's benefits are protected when there are phenomena in a private community that need to be reacted to because the child's benefits are violated. And as I ask myself whether the current regime is such that the benefits of all children are truly protected, I find that this is not true. We can be blind and deaf and say that there is no scientific information on whether or not there is a statistically valid data on how many children live in same-sex families or relationships do not have all rights. How the benefits are protected, if the other cannot benefit from a relationship that is not a biological father or mother, because it is also a reconstructed relationship, if they cannot use a hospital leave for the care of the child, if they cannot benefit from parental leave, use the rights to work with a shorter working time, and the rights to pay contributions due to work with a shorter working time will not be listed by all these rights - if the child does not have the opportunity to inherit after the deceased partner, if the child does not have the right to a family pension after the deceased partner, if he cannot exercise the right to survive, if the child cannot be protected after the partner if they cannot perform any work in relation to the child, even if this is the moment when the partner comes after the child to kindergarten or school. These are just a few things that need to be pointed out to those who claim that the child’s benefits are not put at the centre because we want to eliminate precisely such anomalies that do not allow it to be regulated. Of course, it is now possible to refer also to different research and to different comparisons, which are time-consuming in 1995. In the opinion of the Group of Members, Mr Germič pointed out that human rights have not been forever and are not forever, but are more modern gains and that they need to be pursued again and again. That is why I think it is up to us, in the responsible policy, to protect the rights of minorities and not to let them beat because most, in my opinion, feel threatened. I don't know who or what the family code threatens if it wants to enforce the benefits of children and if it wants to admit it, legally recognise the different forms of families that already exist. Is it not important that children in the environment in which they live feel safe and accepted in the family they live in? This is not necessarily necessarily related to biological parenting, but it can also be linked to social parenting. That is why I will support the Family Code because I want to say that I recognise the rights of all families, that I think it is very important and necessary to ensure rights for all children, and that we are in fact also exercising our mission for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u40	Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests! Allow me to respond to some of the questions raised over the presentations of the groups of Members, and I think it shows that there would be no misunderstandings about this. The first thing and the critical question that has been addressed is whether or not the Family Code proposal evaluates the traditional family as it is, as the Constitution stipulates. You won't find a single city if you read where it would go this way. What distinguishes us in terms is that we want the concept of a family with this law, which we propose, which is inclusive, which recognizes that people have chosen different forms of life, common life, unlike those who think that only one form of family is the so-called traditional family, the one in which they are allowed to live, is worth living in, and in which we can say that we can give birth and raise children. The question here is what we will tell all those families that are not such, those half of Slovenian families and those half of Slovenian children who do not live in such traditional communities. And here we agree, the family is the foundation of society, undisputedly, but this society will be stronger, stronger if we recognize to all families that this society is created and contributed and strengthened. And here we are pledging through the code that we are open, that we accept differentness and accept what is somehow created and created as a European civilisation framework. The second question that has been raised here, I think, is marginal, but nevertheless, on the basis that Mr Cuckati opened in presenting the views of the SDS, is the question of the relationship to homosexuality and homosexuality in general. I think there's something you should say on what's been said. The definition that this phenomenon is a disease, a mental illness that needs to be treated and, as a result, those people who have this tendency, are put into some institution, if possible, or something similar that we have experienced in history, ladies and gentlemen, is wrong. The World Health Organization deleted this from its 1991 list. And since then, there has been a global consensus that we cannot view this as a disease as some sort of thing that needs to be treated systematically. Let me give you another interesting example from this set. Mr. Prime Minister of Great Britain Brown publicly apologized to the mathematics of Turing and his family for treating homosexuality. This treatment looked like electroshocks and similar receptions, which is why Mr Turing committed suicide. This apology came too late, but it's important. It is important because this is part of the knowledge of how to view this phenomenon. Here we should actually ask ourselves why this proof that, for example, homosexually oriented people have mental problems, as mentioned above. Perhaps because we have this attitude toward them because they are not accepted because they live in a society where they have to suppress their basic biological characteristics. Noting that homosexuality through the life cycle with years of weakness, ladies and gentlemen, including heterosexuality, we know this older. Then it is a question of studies that have been the basis for decisions as we have made. These studies are different. We've got all kinds of studies. More or less biased. However, I would like to draw attention to an article already mentioned, Biblars and Staceys, which refers to 80 different studies that are neither the right nor the left. The right or the left are one way or another, if you want, because they're researchers from different criminals. However, the main conclusion of these studies is that the best environment for education, growth, child development is where a child has the opportunity to live in a family community made up of two adults, with gender being a irrelevant issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u41	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u42	This is the conclusion that researchers come to when they study 80 different modern studies in this field. We can't trust them either. We can still have our beliefs. I am talking about research that has been done in accordance with the methodology used for this field of science. We have repeatedly cited a study called the German study conducted by Mariana Rupp, which notes something similar for Germany that there is no difference in the growth and upbringing of children in same-sex communities, as regards their behaviour, their health, their relationships. Let me mention another interesting study by Zach Balthazar, who wrote a book after he did a lot of research on biology and homosexuality, where he proves that it's something that's born, arranged that these people living between us are natural people who have slightly different behaviors tended. And that's something that nature gave, or those who believe that it was at birth that God gave at birth, as they say, at birth. That's how they're made. And the problem is whether the company accepts them or rejects them or marginalises them. And that's a key question for us. What matters is the attitude towards these people, but they're natural. This effort through the Family Code is an effort to ensure the equality of citizens, including those who have opted for a different life or who are not equal to all of us. In particular, I would like to point out, in the light of the discussion and also the Presecnik report, that the family code has no fundamental purpose to protect the child, to protect the child's benefits. I don't think that's gonna hold up. It has already been mentioned why children living in such communities today are not equal, whose rights are all of them directly or indirectly through a different treatment of the community in which they are violated or deprived. I would also like to mention the case which I mentioned in the introduction, an example of a Supreme Court decision that is not yet known to the public. It is the fact that two same-sex individuals who have Slovenian and American citizenship have decided to adopt a child in one of the American countries, in accordance with their legislation. And the U.S. Court finds that they became full-fledged parents of this child with all rights, as if they were biological parents. With this decision and with this child, they came to us to put this child in the birth certificate so that this child could have all the rights that other citizens have. Of course, that wasn't possible. They therefore appealed to the District Court to admit this decision of the court they had received in America. The District Court has agreed to this and has said that in our legal order, without any problems or negative consequences, this decision can be placed and then all the rights arising therefrom. That's what the U.S. Attorney's Office complained about when it said it wasn't appropriate. There was a debate at the Supreme Court. A special Senate has been established to reach a decision to reject a complaint from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and to confirm that the decision of the District Court was appropriate. In fact, there could not have been any other decision here, for such a child would have been completely out of the legal system that we know about. And this is an example that is a precedent that can actually be used now at any time in any case, anyone who chooses to do so. This would, of course, mean that if we went through this practice further, we would not regulate the family code as proposed, that our people would serve these options and bypass our law and, if you want, through the "case by case" they would deal with these things in a way that is so unpleasant for us. And that could happen. In doing so, let me point out that there are an increasing number of European countries allowing adoptions. Eight countries are now in a position to have this legislation so that it can be regulated at any time within the European Union. And then we have an unfavourable situation, in fact, it is used or abused if you want, our inadequate legal order, and otherwise the desires that are behind must also be realized. Let me add this: in support of this Supreme Court decision, it is interesting that the Office of the Prosecutor refers to public order in Slovenia, which does not allow such a case. The Supreme Court refers to the European acquis and to the European Convention on Human Rights. I would also like to answer the question put by Mr President, "where you now have all these families and same-sex couples, communities" and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this would mean nocturnal discrimination if we started looking for the same sex-oriented ones and counting them. What do you know about how many people you meet on the street every day in your work environment and elsewhere have different tendencies? It's like that, too. These people are looking, counting, classifying, not saying what else can happen on this basis - this is what they used to do, that you will admit to those who know history - but we cannot do this in democratic societies. This information we have is based on self-representation, if you want, self-reporting. Those who wanted to present themselves as same-sex-oriented. On this basis, we have the numbers we are talking about, but we do not know how many people do not want in the situations they live in to show their specifics that are unpleasant to them today. So it is extremely questionable if you would like the statistics you require in this area. That's it for once, and I'll call back later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary! The plasma of e-mails sent by Members of Parliament in recent days, which are mainly directed against family law, by focusing mainly on one argument under this law, proves the excellent operational and tactical organisation of opponents of this law. But only that, and nothing more. The arguments are repeated and are always the same. It is interesting that the law, which significantly improves the relationship between families, particularly the situation of children, especially those who, due to special circumstances, find themselves in an inconvenient area of family differences, disputes, divorce, including or mainly within the so-called traditional family, enables these children to have a real opportunity and, in particular, greater protection and to transform or better determine the role of social work centres and the role of courts. Such a law, which finally regulates it, reduces the opposition in these debates today to an opportunity for alleged psychoanalytical and pseudoscientific accounting with homosexuals. In doing so, it is forgotten that any civilized and democratic country or society has long considered homosexuality no longer a disease or a deviation from the so-called normal sex. The free sexual orientation of individual citizens and citizens is also protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This also leads to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which is legitimately and correctly referred to by the Government in defending this law. History. It was a history mentioned. Auschwitz, Dachau, Treblinka, etc. In these famous hells, in these famous concentration camps, the Jews were identified by David’s star. Political prisoners, prisoners, with a red triangle, Roma with a yellow triangle, homosexuals with a pink triangle. These colors in triangles may once again become a frightening parable of some of the thoughts that we have seen today between the lines of some debates. Someone wanted to prove that the homosexual population was a strange deviation from normality. From here to the triangle in pink there is no great distance. Stalin. He was referred to as Stalinism, how Soviet homosexuals lived. In 1917 the Russian Revolution decriminalized homosexuality when there was a revolution and liberarians took part in it. But this illusion was short because Bolsheviks also disagreed and felt that homosexuality was but one perversion, a deviation associated with bourgeoisie, so until this decriminalisation and liberalisation of the issue were very much reserved. And when Comrade Stalin arrived, a period of relative tolerance ended. That was when the violent repression or violent, forced treatment of homosexuals came to an end because they were branded perverts as the rest of the decadence. And I'm going to quote Nikolai Krilenk briefly. Nikolai Krilent was the most important, influential politician in the Stalin period. He was a minister. And according to him, homosexuality was the product of decadent oppressive classes that had nothing to do. At that time, the Soviet Encyclopedia wrote: "The source of homosexuality is linked to social circumstances. For most people who are homosexually inclined, this perversion ends as soon as a person finds a suitable environment. In a Soviet society where living habits are healthy, homosexuality is experienced as a sexual perversion that is shameful and criminal. Soviet legislation punishes homosexuality with the exception of individual cases where homosexuality is the result of mental disorders." This was not written by Dr. Tuckati, although we could believe it, but it was written in a Stalinist Soviet encyclopedia. Very interesting. Interesting parallels. Today we are hearing and discussing things that have already been digested, metabolized in democratic societies and we thought they would never happen again. And now we are before this - before the temptation to revalue one category of the population that is present here and has always been present in history and is part of history, part of culture, part of art. We're trying to evaluate it to a deviant phenomenon that could endanger a traditional family. It's not like that. And we can prove it pretty well today. Homosexuality, if we stay a moment in history, has not been punished only in Stalin’s Soviet Union or in Hitler’s Germany. Some decades earlier, the great English writer Oscar Wilde was punished with forced labor in Victorian England because of his sexual orientation. Homosexuality is also part of human history and culture and the suppression of homosexuality. But the repression was current when the civil level of society was at a very low level. Apparently it is in Slovenia - and in today's cases of speech, which can again be referred to as an enemy, this is clearly a present effort to return to those not very good times. I hope not. But the sparks that you feel here, unfortunately, speak of this danger. And yet another not very rhetorical question, but the Member of Parliament appointed someone. Was Mr. Freezl a homosexual? No, no, no. Mar are numerous examples of pedophilia that are revealed in the highest moral institution, in the RCC, in the Roman Catholic Church, which is why the pope himself is constantly advertised to apologize and to distance himself from the already massive phenomena of paedophilia within the Church. Is this the result of opening legislation to homosexuals? No, this is the result of the oppression of one part of human nature, human freedom. And in this oppression - psychoanalysis and psychology are well aware of this phenomenon, that it is those who bark the most against so-called deviations who oppress these deviations, may hold them in private and hate the freedom of those who want to speak and act publicly, bucket. And that's the key to this story. This hatred for difference, however, does not matter whether they are homosexuals, whether they are Roma, whether they have been erased, or are so - called leftists, is different for some. And if it's disruptive on one segment, it'll be disruptive on the other. And today, we are once again faced with hatred for different things. The family code does not endanger or restrict the traditional family. On the contrary. I think that the proposals that everyone recognises to this law - the protection, the protection of children, the clearer role of all institutions dealing with family relations - make it possible for traditional families to function better. But the law goes on. It extends the rights and gives the opportunity to some communities that did not have the opportunity to live as a family. This should be highlighted. Unfortunately, in this campaign against the family code, they want to hide it, they want to prove that it is only a law that corresponds to homosexual, same-sex communities. No, it's just one small segment. But it's important. It is important because it extends certain rights and also allows those children who actually already live in the same-sex community in practice to have rights and that there is no discrimination. If we don't do this - I remember big debates in some countries before the legalisation of abortion or before the legalisation of divorce. As recently as the 1970s, these struggles were very active in some European countries. There have been referendums, there have been intense civil battles for a woman to have that fundamental right to decide her own body, to decide her own birth, and also to decide her relationship with her partner. And if we go back more, this debate reminds me of debates centuries ago when a woman had no fundamental rights when a woman was not allowed to work, not to vote. And that was normal back then. This is normal in some countries today. And look at the fraction, in those same countries a homosexual is going to be killed today because there is also a death penalty for these deviants. And these are intolerant societies, fundamentalistic or theocratic. Even in a developed Europe, we know that in history, when a demand for equality for women arose, some have referred to it as the breakdown of a traditional family. Of course, the dissolution of patriarchal traditional society. But the cycle of history was moving on. The woman got her rights. And what happened at the time is gone today. Today we live in a world where all citizens and citizens are equal and there is no reason, even in the fact that Slovenia is not the only one and is not the first civilised and democratic country to propose such legislation, there is no reason to say in one segment: "No, let us limit here because these are different, they are not normal and they will harm our troikas." Research has shown that children living in same - sex communities, where the law of love, warmth, mutual respect prevails, would not be deprived of respect compared to some others. But we can find many examples where there are abuses in traditional families, violence, and extenuating situations. But these are extraordinary situations that we can record in all families, regardless of sexual orientation. I, as we have heard today, attribute to some strangely inclined, some floscules about how some old people will treat children. Please, when we adopt children, we know what the procedures are. We know how many conditions, the required conditions, and how difficult it is to adopt a child. A relationship must be established to ensure that the child is given basic rights and basic protection. This toy with exceptional and unrealistic situations is simply an oil spill on a fire that does not contribute to the sobriety of this debate. We also have a good marriage in the part where it extends rights, and we do not lose this opportunity. We have a law that will raise Slovenia to the level of the most cultivated, most tolerant, most developed European countries. And you'll see that the, uh, what now works like a painful birth spasm is going to be something completely normal tomorrow. Just like the right to equality between women. That is why I will strongly and confidently support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u45	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Surely the new family code has many good solutions that we support in the Slovenian People's Party, a solution that actually puts children at the forefront. Unfortunately, you have incorporated into this code a solution that is a grave attack on the family, a grave attack on the base cell of society and puts the child at the forefront, but puts the same sexual relationship in the front. It's a grave attack against a human being. Therefore, this code is not acceptable to me and is also unacceptable to the Slovenian People's Party. I don't want to be impatient, I'm not impatient, and I don't have anything against same-sex relationships. However, I am firmly opposed to the fact that the same - sex relationship, that is, the union of two men or the union of two women, can adopt a child, especially at a time when many young couples cannot have a child because of such or other matters. I have asked myself many times, for I too may find that my child will lose his parents in one way or another. My son. How would it feel to have my son in an same - sex relationship under a web of circumstances? That's not what I'm for. Ask yourself if you're up for this. Surely this code is not only a matter of lawyers or of us, of politicians we are arguing here, but it is a matter, content and subject that must be discussed by both philosophers, anthropologists, psychologists, deep-seated psychologists and moral theologians. Here, however, some people simply want to be heard and moved by force, by way of a vote. I would like men to remain men, men, fathers, women to remain wives, mothers, and children to remain children, and families to remain a family. But with this marriage, we want to make a man no longer be a husband or a father and that a woman will not be a wife or a mother or children, I don't know what they will be, and the family will certainly not be a family anymore. Please don't tell us that same-sex relationships are full of warmth and love and that everything is wrong in normal families. No, please, do this because it's just not true. It's about human rights. What human rights? Certainly not about children's human rights. And here's the key problem. So where is the human rights of the child in this code when we talk about the adoption of a child by the same-sex union? Where is his right to live in a normal and, if you want, natural family? Yes, we're also talking about nature. Those of you who are atheists and don't believe in God, you probably know Darwin's doctrine of evolution. This time we're going straight to nature. By the way, history teaches us that acts against nature are not good and dangerous. We have done much against nature, especially by pollution, and nature is returning it to us in one way or another. Yeah, I agree. A lot of kids are born out of wedlock. Have we ever wondered why? Because parents, unfortunately also because of financial distress, need to calculate what is better for the family or what is more worthwhile: being out - of - wedlock or getting married. In many cases, extramarital relations pay much more than being married. It's either a bad world or a disaster. Yeah, but this country, unfortunately, we do. Do you have any idea where we came from in our society? To calculate whether we're getting married or not. If we don't get married, because we don't have a common income, maybe we get some kind of supplement, the kind of kindergarten is cheaper, and so on. This is why children live in an extramarital relationship. There have been a lot of talk about studies on the impact on the development of children in same-sex relationships, about the German study, that it has no impact on the child. On the other hand, we all have psychologists and psychiatrists, and I don't know who's explaining how any small anomaly within the family and beyond has a big impact on the child. This is not supposed to have any effect. I don't understand that. And in Slovenia, as far as I know, or in our society, we do not have any professionally based interdisciplinary study on this impact, how the same-sex relationship affects the development of the child. Who is at risk of the code was the question. In my opinion, in this segment, it certainly threatens the normal development of the child. I have recently asked the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in fact, four questions, either in relation to these statistics or in any way, which the Minister has also talked about before, and said that it was some stigmatisation, some overjoying of individual different people to say so. Obviously we don't have those numbers. But for God's sake, all the time since we've been talking about the family code, you've been convincing us, a coalition or some coalition parties, that there are so many and so many people or so many children, you're talking about the number 100, in the same sexual relationship. But when we ask a very clear question, you say you don't have these numbers. All you said was that on 22 January 2010, 30 same-sex partnerships were registered. It's a public number. Otherwise, you operate with some numbers that are not public or familiar, at least we don't know them. So we don't have the data, we don't have the official data, and yet we're raping a solution that's not acceptable. On December 9th last year, I sent a public invitation to the President of the Government to withdraw the family code. I didn't get an answer to that call. I'm sorry, but I'm fine. I hope and I wish the code didn't get any support. If he wins, we have already announced that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will give signatures for the implementation of the subsequent legislative referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u47	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Today we have heard quite a few opinions to support this family code. But I'm asking you, respected colleagues and colleagues, who asked the children if they wanted such parents at all. You're talking about discrimination against children, but you don't really want to protect those who are least protected. I have already been very critical about this to the National Assembly, and in previous attempts I have been dealt with in all courts in Slovenia. Finally, the Constitutional Court ruled whether I spoke hate speech or not. I have to say, I've successfully passed all my judgements. Now I'm in Strasbourg in a court of law where my partners or, rather, homosexuals and lesbians are suing me because I was allowed to say words in the National Assembly, like an appeal that there is probably no parent, and there is no one here today who would like to have such a defined child. I cannot agree with the fact that most of the attention in the National Assembly, if we look at how much time we have spent, we spend on erased, same-sex partners and on the Roma, not to say, Gypsies, because I can be interrupted. Social issues as if you are not interested in the government, the difficult life of Slovenes and Slovenes is not. It is important that we adopt this law and that you gain another vote. But most of all, it's those who, perhaps critics, don't even have a family and don't know what a family is. Before that, we heard a colleague say that some of us are barking here in the National Assembly. I would appeal here to the Vice-President that he is so critical of the coalition Members when they are essentially addressing the speech in such an ugly way. Although the opposition, I think there's a certain amount of impatience here as well. I would like to draw attention to the fact. There are over 300 e-mails on my computer that say we're doing in the National Assembly today when we're dealing with this, a lot of stupidity and stealing time from God, especially the country's precious money. Because it also costs something to the National Assembly and, of course, to the State. However, I would like to draw attention to another aspect and another consequence of this action, which is a referendum that will undoubtedly be, and will cost several million euros. Then we can ask ourselves why we are so poorly rated in the public eye, or so negative the public’s opinion to work in the National Assembly. Because of this, honourable Members, because we are dealing with deleted ones, this is in particular the topic of the same-sex partnership as the current tape. We had this marriage recently, and now we have it again. And because the popular theme in the National Assembly is the gypsy theme. So, none of what we should be dealing with. The very minor subjects that speak mainly of opposition and position are trying to gain voter favor. Above all, I think that Mr Pahor needs this law if he is to maintain at least some support for the rule. This group is not negligible, it is numerical, and today it is modern to be different, abnormal. If you're normal, you can be convicted. When there was a parade of pride, you could see the banner "death, my friend". At the time, none of my colleagues objected, but this banner was happily worn down here in front of Parliament, waving with it. I was in court at the Supreme Court at the time because I was allowed to discuss homosexuals in this way. I would also like to say that when abuse occurs, all those who press the "for" button today will be responsible for it. The minimum penalties imposed are pedophilia and rape penalties. These are also the most difficult to prove, or in children at all. It is rare that judgment is legally binding. Therefore, my President's warning, when he represented the position of the Group of Members, is true. It is important to consider whether it would not be appropriate to give those persons who may be placed in such a position the opportunity should also be given, and they are not satisfied with themselves. I believe that there is also a homosexual, a few of whom are not satisfied with this tendency, and I would like to seek appropriate health care within social insurance. I'm not saying it's a disease, but if we're treating kleptomaniacs, if we're treating alcoholism, we could actually add it as an option that, according to a voluntary assessment, should be treated in one way or another at an appropriate healthcare institution. I would also like to stress the fact that there will be neglecting children in the regular education system. Imagine what will happen when one of the parents comes to school for such a child and the other children see what kind of parents this child has. They'll probably make fun of him and make fun of him through a nine-year primary school education. Who's gonna protect this kid? Will you be as loud as you are here today, and will you stand up to this child who will be able to have lasting consequences because today we have voted on such a stupid marriage? I have no objection to registering same-sex partnerships; I have no objection to defining the rights of these groups in any way. But I am very opposed to these groups being able to legally adopt a child. This has nothing to do with family law. Dear Minister, what you've been saying today has challenged the Chamber, if not the other, a mockery. You said there's nothing wrong with being with such a person and that studies prove it, and you rely on it. Where is the European Convention that we have mentioned that prohibits adoption of children? Why is no one talking about this European comparability? The President made it clear to you today that we should also be European comparable. We have been suspended three times and I would like, Mr Gantar, the honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, to return this time to us, to determine how many times Mr Yelinčič has intervened in this meeting and to be attributed to us this time, because my colleagues would also like to say something about it. But there's one more thing I'd like to do. I propose to this esteemed National Assembly if the coalition chooses to bear the costs itself. And Members of the National Assembly, who will vote in favour today, be at least fair enough to pay the costs of the referendum. That's what I suggest if you're so sure that's a good thing. And you're not going to say no, you're going to be waving at the nets with a stranger. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u49	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Dejan Levanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Family code brings a lot of good. It regulates the entire family law and strengthens the country's influence on relations within the family in the interests of the child. The main objective is to improve the situation of children in family relationships, to solve matters more quickly in the family field, which is particularly important when deciding on measures to protect the benefit of the child, as some long-term procedures may have negative, irreparable consequences for its further development. In addition, the law includes a chapter on same-sex partnerships and their families, of course, and it must be pointed out that this chapter is not at all about creating privileges for one group of people or just eliminating discrimination against same-sex partners, but is primarily about children's rights. And through the arguments already made by Mr Minister and by others, it is clear that this is true. All the rest are unfortunately unfounded arguments that encourage the spread of intolerance in our society and distract us from the real problem we are facing. What's this all about? Imagine a community of same-sex couples who are already raising a child. This is not an example because in reality such a community already exists. One of the biological parents of this child chose the same partner as his or her companion, which is his or her right after all. What is even more important is that we all acknowledge together that such a form of family is a family. And if we say it's not family, we throw sand in each other's eyes. It is even more important that these children living in these families, like all other children in our society, be granted social security rights. This means that we ensure that the patient can be used for the care of children, parental leave, working rights with shorter working hours, including the right to a child allowance, to enable children to inherit, family pension, maintenance rights, and health insurance, etc. And these are real problems in today's society, you want it or you don't want it. The government coalition wants to save them for the good of the child right now. And with all these rights arising from social security rights, it is clear that we guarantee basic rights to children living in these families and who do not have these rights today. So they're not equal to the other kids, and that's a fact. Justice must not be a privilege, but something that belongs to all of us. Among other things, the family code is evident to change the traditional definition of family. That's not true. The family code fully maintains an intact traditional marriage between a man and a woman with all rights and duties. The new Family Code does not in any way diminish the importance of traditional family forms and, by means of individual measures, especially through various removals of administrative barriers, makes it easier for young people who want to decide to join a partner community to do so. Thus, it is not true that some form of marriage is less attractive. In doing so, we must take into account the changed social circumstances in our society. And it is true that the family code puts a child in the core this time, for according to the law in force today even the single parent family is not a family. Well, let me know if that's right. Is it true that only a family made up of a father, a mother, and a child can be considered a family? No, because things have changed today and saying that a single - parent family is not a family is unfortunately very wrong, and neither of us has that right. Today, we also receive a strong hate speech in this Chamber. Homosexuals are compared to pedophiles, zoophilis, they are referred to as sick, mentally inappropriate, inadequate, etc. What's the next step? To lock them up in special camps to get them out of our society? I can understand that each of us has a different attitude. But what's too much is too much. How would you feel if someone without a basis accused you of being a pedophile, a zoophile, abusing your child, driving someone into a bath and doing what I know? How would you feel? Above all, I would not expect such words to come from representatives of this High Council. But apparently, the arguments are no longer important. If I go back to the code. For children, the most important thing that happens in the family is the quality of relationships. Many of you have spoken in various studies. In 1995, the American Psychological Association made it clear that there are no differences between children living in heterosexual families and children living in same - sex families. At the two conservative institutes, the German Justice Minister commissioned a study, the first transparent and representative study, which clearly shows that these children receive no less love to participate equally in society, perhaps some minor differences are mainly there, so that they can be more tolerant, more tolerant of their peers. And this is proved by research that is important. The German Justice Minister ordered this research. This study clearly shows what is happening to these children. So every fear of what is going to happen to these children is superfluous. Prejudging what horrors are supposed to be happening in these families is just one big stupid thing. No more important study of same - sex families suggests that these children would have more behavioral and personality problems. The sexual orientation of parents has been shown to have no effect on the sexual orientation of the child. It is unfair to punish children living in same - sex families today because of our ignorance or any prejudice. Let's just say here in the National Assembly, "look, the peers won't accept them, so that's not a good solution." All children in adolescence experience humiliation for various reasons: skin color, obesity, religion, and so on. It is a fact, however, that those children who have support in a stable family, regardless of what family they are, are more likely to face these experiences and things that happen to them as children, regardless of who they live with. Today, children who live with their grandparents, aunts, uncles, fathers, and mothers are in single - parent families, as well as in single - sex families. Regardless of the form of the family they live in, it is important to raise children and what will be offered to them in that family. And let us once and for all understand that not everyone has the happiness of having a mother and a father, but they lack nothing and are no worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u51	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that you have used coalition Members and Members in the past to usurp the commitment to dialogue and to take civil society into account. This has been discussed extensively in the past mandate, including in this mandate, how you will support dialogue with civil society. In fact, the civil initiative for family and children's rights has been stressing and warning since October that solutions in the family code are inadequate. In recent days, all Members and Members of the Union have sent us e-mails, where they oppose the impeachment of such a text as they are prepared to do. The code also contains many good ideas, experiences from the past and a desire for the future. This must honestly be said that some of the solutions in the code are good. Last but not least, it is the regulation of marriage contracts, the recognition of the child before his birth, the news in the field of counselling, protection measures, child welfare, custody, maintenance measures - all of this is included in this family code. However, one point, which, at least for me personally, is unacceptable. This is the equalization of same-sex partnerships with marriage and adoption of children of same-sex couples. Here's a point we'll never get together. Today's world is very hard to do anything. That it's possible to afford everything that's allowed. At all levels of social activity, however, moral decay is detected, so that the law will allow something that is already fundamentally in conflict with the laws of nature, and in my opinion is not worthy of human dignity. The basic cell of society is just a family that combines two generations, parents and children, and two genders, male and female. And that's a fact. I'm absolutely patient with other people. I'm patient. Individuals with the same sexual orientation certainly have the right to live the way they want. However, in the proposal of the Code there is a redefining of the concept of family. That's why it's unacceptable to me, as I said before. And once we finally realize that marriage and children are not justice, but they are a gift, then everything will be very clear and all very logical. As long as we just talk about everyone having the right to marry and that everyone has the right to have children, by then we'll just own everything. I've never been my own father and mother, I'm their gift, but whatever you take and whatever you look at these things. You've been talking a lot about children's rights today. What about the right to father and mother? I think the child has this right, but that's not what this proposal is. Slovenia is in a very strong moral and ethical crisis, which, in fact, adds value to this controversial law. Several tens of thousands of signatures are against family redefinition and the possibility of adoption of children in the same-sex community. All these people have so far not had the opportunity, in my opinion, to sufficiently present the facts of the misdirection of the Ministry. And I think it's right that we re-examine the key findings. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs argues that the Slovenian Government must legislate the right to marry and establish a family because this is enshrined in the European Union Charter of Fundamental Human Rights. That's not true. Article 9 states: "The right to enter into a marriage and the right to form a family shall be guaranteed in accordance with national laws governing the exercise of these rights." Nowhere is there a single word about the requirement in the Charter that the National Assembly should legitimize the equality of marriage and same-sex union and adoption of children in same-sex relationships. It has also been said that Slovenia must legislate the equality of the marriage and same-sex union and the adoption of children in a homosexual community, as such legislation has a number of, according to the government, advanced countries. There are 195 countries in the world. Of these, the marriage relationship with the same sex in a similar radical way, as the current proposal for a family code foresees, is only equivalent to seven. Since 195 only seven: Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Belgium, Canada, South Africa, etc. And these truths, the untruths have grown a lot. Since I am running out of time and I want my colleagues to say something else about this subject, I think it is right to say something else about the referendum, because you will obviously support this code and the referendum will take place. The government's claim that the rights of the so-called homosexual minority in the referendum should not be decided by a majority. That's absolutely not true. Homosexually oriented people don't have minority status. This is a political construct designed to mislead the public. Homosexuals and lesbians have the right to live their lives the way they want. I've said that before. They certainly do not have the right to change the importance of the marriage for at least 80% of Slovenian citizens and citizens who have spoken against such changes in surveys. How marriage and family will be defined in law must be decided by the majority rather than by the minority. And that's it. If the law leaves the equality of same-sex communities with marriage and the possibility of adopting children to same-sex couples, I regret that I cannot support this law, even though there are some good solutions in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u53	Does Mr. Marjan Krizman have a word? [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have absolutely nothing against the same-sex partner community myself, and I have nothing against the same-sex-oriented, and I do not want any opinion that is not 100% identical to the opinion of the proposer of this code to be defined as impatient. This is not a question of intolerance or tolerance, but of responsibility. I'll be brief in my debate. I agree with some of the solutions within the family code, especially those dealing with the issue of family mediation and the child support institution. I absolutely support these two solutions myself. But something else bothers me, especially the way the coalition intervened in this family code under the pretext of good solutions. It introduced provisions that equate the same sexual partnership with marriage and also allow adoption of children to be possible for the same-sex partners. I am sure that you are fully aware of yourself in the coalition, very well aware that, through a separate law on the same-sex partnership community, we could never, given the situation in society and how people are against these provisions, carry out this in a separate law. That's why it had to be done under the pretext of "stupid," misinterpretation. Under the solutions that are good and we all support them, I am sure that, including those sitting on the balcony today, you have introduced, by the way, this provision. And that's what's wrong, because it shows the symptomatic functioning of this coalition in other areas, not just that. Almost four years ago, in the National Assembly, under the then Janša government, we passed the Law on the same-sex partnership, which regulates the situation of same-sex spouses in the area of housing rights and common property. Then, according to the Constitutional Court, when the Constitutional Court was pronounced, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we also wanted to arrange this, as regards the succession of the same-sex partnership. And in the coalition, you two categorically rejected it. Now it's clear why. Because you wanted to find as many alibis as possible so that you could introduce this provision into the family code. I am sure that the government of Janez Janša took a very important step in this area four years ago, and this also touches on human rights issues. This is where the government took a big step forward. Eight years earlier, the governments of the left coalition had dealt with this issue - you never reached the end. Today, when we actually have this foundation in marriage, when we have the same-sex partnership law, you are introducing something else. And perhaps this is due to the pressure of certain lobbyes that you also have within the coalition, and I am talking mainly about one party that, in the elections, received extremely little, a few percent of the votes, just so much that it crossed the threshold. However, today it is this party that is shaping the entire policy of this space. And that's problematic. Why am I saying this? I've had quite a few talks with your government ministers, and they say they don't advocate this provision, and a number of your kind. Don't say it's an impatient opinion. It's not working. But these are certain facts that our country is also at this point in time. I am of the opinion that at this point we do not need this additional content to allow the adoption of children of same-sex partners. I am of the opinion that at this moment the social environment I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you can silence Members on the other hand because they are really disturbing. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u55	I'd agree with that. Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point, I am of the opinion that the social environment in which we are is not prepared for such an intervention, and this is not an impatient position, but a realistic view, not an impatient one. This calls for much discussion and careful consideration of the positive and negative effects of such decisions. I am confident that Slovenia, too, needs this company for such implementation for a certain period of time. In my opinion, this is not about any questions of liberality on this subject or the ability to raise children, it is said who would be better at raising children, but rather about the question of responsibility. At this point in time, I believe that society must be wise enough to assess what are the decisions that actually protect the child. And that's the only thesis and the only starting point we should all come from here together today. This isn't about any intolerance, I repeat. I have no objection to same-sex partnerships, not to same-sex relationships, absolutely nothing, but of course, some decisions should be carefully considered that we will not be going as in some European countries, for example, if I give the case to the Netherlands, which is already dealing with certain responsibilities and dilemmas, or if some decision has not happened too quickly with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u57	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Mr. Rozjej, I apologize for making this leap. I have a little too many corrections on this list.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u58	There was no offense, Mr President. Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I would like to say that I am pleased with the level and calm of the debates, at least the last two, and I hope that the following ones will also be, because I am confident that this is the way in which, as I have already mentioned in the presentation of the opinion of the Group, we will be able, in a rational way and without unnecessary prejudice, to discuss the topic that is on the agenda today. I am pleased that this opinion has been delivered by a younger Member and a younger Member, because we can look at the average age structure, because I am convinced that this family code is especially important to us and our learners, so it seems even more important that the representatives of our generation give an opinion on this code, because, above all, our lives, the lives of our children will be more important than any other. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the general level of debate was different and that, even in the public debate, stereotypes and even their deepening were the main predominants on this issue. The easiest is "riding on stereotypes" and the case of the national party and the presentation of the opinion was exactly that. At the moment when most of us mention same-sex communities and adoptions on their part, each of us, most of us draw a gay couple, preferably the children of men, and this is what Mr Jelinčič did picturesquely. Interestingly, we project mostly into our vision of these different, mainly our own fears. Why? These people differ from us in just one minor difference, that's sexual orientation, otherwise they're exactly the same people we are. A similar example could be followed decades and more ago, for example in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, inhabited by people of the same genetic, ethnic origin, with the same language, the only difference between them is how they worship God. And on this small difference, great nationalism was built, and three great nationalisms were built that resulted in what they resulted in. And I don't want this little difference in sexual orientation to build one big hatred between us that will result in something like this. I also know that, for example, colleague Jelinčič is a notorious heterosexual, and I know that he has two small daughters, I hope that he is gentle, fatherly to them and that he cares for them and that he is also digging them. But I don't think that's why he's a pedophile right now, even though he's heterosexual and he has a daughter who's digging them. These things need to be taken with backup and understanding. And I would like, as I have already said, that, as I mentioned, my colleague Jelinčič would also have taken at least 12 minutes a day for his children as much as I have heard at Saturday's midnight club or omiz can afford an average Slovenian father. So much so that we know what kind of families we talk about most of the time. In the case of same - sex families, most of us talk about such families, that is, lesbian families, families of two women, one of whom is usually a biological mother of a child. The magazine Narobe, which I'm showing you, is a magazine where everything is fine. Smart things can be read in here, even smart people write and smart people give interviews. One of the people who gave the interview for this magazine is also the son of our colleague Jelinčič, Dr. Klemen Jelinčič. And I would say that this fact I am pleased with, from it I conclude that through generations of views on this problem is changing and changing for the better. These two opinions make me think, not only that there is no God, but that God is and that he has a very good sense of humor. As has already been said in the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, the possibility of adoption is intended primarily for such families as I have shown you. Those who are and would like other partners in a community that is not a biological parent of a child to have the opportunity to adopt. This is most important right now. All other forms of same-sex groups with so-called clean adoptions will have to go a long way and a thorny way to actually act. Some have already been successful abroad, and some will probably be successful before the first Slovenian specialised family court decides and assigns the child to care - not for owning, to worry - of the same-sex community. How many of these families are still alive in our country, and I don't know if they hear or don't want to hear that the ministry will probably have a hard time providing reliable data if it's a matter that's not regulated by law at all. It can be a question of guesswork, and we can only know of those who expose themselves, those who have reached some judicial decisions and cannot have the Ministry review of things that are not regulated by law. A similar answer would probably be given if you asked how many cauldrons are in Slovenia. I suppose maybe even, I don't know, the Slovenian People's Party, or any of its parts, or the Farmer's Association has better data than the Ministry of Agriculture. None of this information is accurate. Who knows what kind of attic there's an old boiler behind the burner? A comparison that may not have been the most appropriate, nor was it an appropriate comparison between alcoholism and same-sexness compared to the impact that these two, what to say, have on society. Alcoholism is undoubtedly a social evil, and this has not yet led to some conclusions in this country that certain types of alcohol should be taxed more than just food, even though we are promoting and contributing to alcoholism. The same-sex orientation is nothing more than to weaken the power and creativity and creativity of this society. One of the more family activities, traditional family activities, if I say so, is Sunday TV viewing. What kind of show does the most people watch on Sunday night in their family circle?Oh, my God! You know what I mean? Make your own conclusions. We consider a lot of Slovenian films to be part of our identity. The film Vesna is certainly like this - its author was also same-sex. And we would also find such examples that we can conclude that we can be a creative part of this society in one way or another. Many of these claims have been supported by some scientific research that, of course, someone can believe them, someone doesn't. But the same was true of Copernicus' planetary system, long years, decades, if not centuries, but we do know that this is true. The same was true of Darwin’s theory of evolution, but it was true in the end. But there will always be people who won't believe this scientific discovery. Therefore, the issue that we are talking about today must be tackled in an inclusive manner, because no other solution, which has already been mentioned here, can guarantee legal certainty in all respects through the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships. It is also interesting that the current regulation of this problem in us shows a still outdated understanding of the same sexual orientation as the disease that can be cured. That's the kind of opinion we've heard here. We must be aware, however, that our legislation is also one which, of course, provides and encourages in some way. In our current law on marriage and family relations, nothing says that marriage should not be concluded by someone who is already in a registered same - sex community. Of course, the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Community states that someone who is already married cannot be registered in this community at the same time. This, of course, means that there is nothing wrong with bigamy and bisexuality, the state supports this if it is only the direction in which this form of sex ends, heterosexual; in short, marriage and so on. I don't think we can be exactly proud of that either, so of course it's good that we're saving these things in a uniform family code. At the end, I would also say that whatever we accept or will not accept, the fact is that different families will exist between us. What we can, of course, do at the time of the adoption of the law or at the time of its rejection, is that our society would be more tolerant of such different families and of such different children. The problems that a fellow friend mentioned that such children can have in primary school and kindergarten do not come from such or different orientations of their parents, but from how society accepts this difference. Here, for example, colleague Friend after my modest assessment still has a lot of work to do, and so do all of us, that in our discussions we will know how to be rational and that we will not encourage a different vision, in short, a dim sense of difference, which is now, unfortunately, somehow already becoming a sport, at least in some circles. I hope that the level of debate goes in the right direction. The Ministry has made a number of good and understandable arguments and, if not in the first, perhaps in the second or later reading, I hope that the agreement on the admissibility of this Code will be increased. But as we are taught, from other European countries that have already done so, and elsewhere in the world, that this change will eventually be reflected in the majority of the population as well, and that acceptability will be the same as today's acceptance of general electoral rights for women. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u59	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'll give my colleagues some time. First of all, let me also point out, even more so than before, in the opinion of the Group of Members, that in most of the work this code is of course good and I welcome it and we welcome it, which we are always talking about. Also, I would like to make an extra point, since it has recently been felt in today's debate, I very much welcome the emphasis on the importance of the multigenerational family. That seems particularly important to me. But given that Mr. Minister mentioned me earlier about non-compliance with two of my statements, we did not understand each other very well. I didn't say the family code didn't intend to protect the child. Yeah, I'm sure it's most of the work. In this part, which is controversial, but certainly not in this part. And the other thing about statistics. We asked the ministry, our colleague asked the ministry about some of the data, and today I was told that only information about these registrations of same-sex partnerships was possible. However, colleague Rojej, you are always referring to the number of children living in same-sex families. That's what you're saying, and that's why we asked you where you got the information. Or what Mr. Secretary said, are you "knocking" on a kid's sleeve on the street to get that information a hundred? We wanted to get it from the Ministry, so we can't get it. But I didn't compare the cauldrons to any kids. That way I don't have to read it. I never do that, and I never think that way. Just for a little while now, I'm not rejecting same-sex partnerships, I'm always saying this, and I'm also about to settle some property-law issues. Also for some of the other categories they send to me on the phone. One lady asks whether other forms have been taken care of, for example, the inheritance of brothers and sisters living in a common household. Last but not least, I will say that I am advocating positive discrimination against the family and more; for a fair and realistic display of the social situation. I have asked this question and stressed it already in the previous mandate that there will be no misunderstanding, and I stress in this mandate the correct, fair presentation of the social situation, which is also the basis for many times for the granting of social assistance. And with this, social work centres have a lot of problems. And I have to say something positive. I welcome the announcement made by the Minister or the Ministry in recent days that you are preparing appropriate legislation that will also try to resolve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u61	Ms State Secretary, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you for your word on my part. I must admit that the debate, as it is happening, is going in a better direction than it has begun, and that it seems to me that one of the important steps is that we are talking today in the National Assembly on this subject and that we are speaking in a dialogueal way to listen to the arguments of the other party, which means that we are opening up space and that we are also changing the perception of the whole society on this issue. And it seems to me a big step and a big plus that today the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is talking about this. Before I touch more important things, I cannot get past the initial discussion on the issue of homosexuality than disease. I do not think that this matter should be left open, even to the viewers who are accompanying this meeting today, in the direction that homosexuality as a disease has been removed from this list since 1973 by the American Psychiatric Association, and this has been a very big advance and a very big step forward in that period. And the adoption in 1991 of the most conservative institution, which is the World Health Organization, of this definition that homosexuality cannot absolutely be classified as a disease is evidence that today we should not talk about this in this assembly at the beginning of the debate. Homosexuality - when we think about it and say it's not something to talk about, because it's rude to even talk about it, then we're left with homosexuality as a sexual orientation. As sexually oriented, however, it is written in our Constitution and also in the European Conventions on Human Rights as a personal circumstance that cannot be the subject of a distinction. And here in this place is this fact and Slovenia is a legal and social state and fundamental social rights - because the right to a hospital compensation for someone who cares about a child and is not his biological parent is a social right. And in this place today, we decide on these rights to whom we will give them and why we keep talking about the child’s benefit because these children are living today. You saw an article in the Saturday Lens about the family that introduced herself. How uncomfortable it was to come to the public, but she did so to present her real problems. And this child today - we today must have such children before our eyes when we decide on these matters. And these children today unfortunately do not have fundamental social rights in our country, and this is unacceptable in terms of the social and legal state. But when we talk about the adoption field, which is actually the most publicizing of the opinions here. However, the question is that it is not and is clearly enshrined in the family code in several places, that the right to adopt is not a right of parents, but a right of children. And that the institutions in this country, which we will strengthen in all places in this work, I am talking about this, about the centres for social work that give their expert opinion on this, and on the basis of the family code, will finally be decided by the court. And there are so many different guards in here that please let the institutions do what it is, what they have to do to judge what is in the child's best interests. To give you a banal example, which can happen, because in life, a child who lives in the same-sex family does something to his parents. Would it not be acceptable for this child to have the greatest benefit in such a community? Here we are in the field of the great ideology of family. Throughout history, the family survived precisely because of its openness, precisely because of the fact that we came from a large extended patriarchal family today to a nuclear family because of the context in which we live. And it's not a matter of law that we value-and-morally determine which family is ideal and which one isn't. This is where we decide the rights that go to these children who live in different families. And we simply cannot determine the legal substance of these rights in a way that we say: we give you all the rights, because in fact we agree that children cannot be discriminated against, but the community in which you live is not a family. Let's put something else in the basics here. What does he live in pear?Oh, my God! What does he live in?Oh, my God! That means his parents aren't parents. How? What a show it's all been. They're parents. Mom can have him and he's a parent, and the other one who cares about him - what? What if, for example, a father/man comes into a community that is not the biological father of this child? Then it's not. It is simply a question of the rights of these children, the question of fundamental human rights and social rights. And when we talk about why we allowed this option in marriage and gave the guardian a choice in all places when it comes to adoptions, the benefit of the child. That is why we have done this because research, and now I will be very clear - scientific research in the last period, in the last 20s, in the 30s, when more is said and spoken in a different way from a human rights perspective, clearly show that for the development of a child, the father and mother are not essential as a figure, but above all how they relate to how their parental, or parental, or parental role they play in this family. And this is an essential concept of the quality of family relationships. And this is the subject of professional services and, at the final stage of the decision, also the courts. So here I assure you that the institutions will do their utmost to judge the child's benefit in case of adoption. Another story is that of children living in such families. All rights must be given to these children: the right of contact if his family in which he lives falls apart, the right to an inheritance, the right to a pension - all that protects the child's interest. And we can't even talk here just about the same-sex interest as there is an elite group that tells us what we're doing today, what the Ministry's proposal was. That's unacceptable! Here it goes, and we stand behind it, for the interest of the child's benefit. But all the kids! Not just those children who may live in such families that we like and who would be the only ones to honor me. And also, what is the point of this code? By taking measures to protect children in families, where everything is not right! And unfortunately, there are more and more families like this. Today, in the middle of the family code, we need to have articles on how to protect a child if parents fail to fulfill their parental concerns in a way that is in the interests of the child, it is sad, but we need to talk about it. And half the code of renewal of this is essential; how to protect children in families where everything is fine; the fact that it was not allowed to speak out about domestic violence five years ago in this country. Today, we are talking about this as statistics that are growing because we are monitoring them because we are paying attention to these things. Actually, it's just one of the taboo things to talk about. But I would only end with a question that was very provocative, and you would not believe it, even in the design of solutions in this law we asked about them - everyone probably in their own way. For me as a mother of two, the question is whether you want my child to be equally oriented is irrelevant. I wish for my children that they will be happy, good, honest citizens, but that they will have the opportunity to live in a society that their sexual orientation, which is not due to disease or anything else, does not take them in such a way as to prevent their normal integration into this society. They're citizens who pay taxes. And when we talk about the values of the family, about how this will affect our value system, I would like my children in primary school or anywhere in the public institution not to hear that family is only one right, but that even his colleagues in school, when they sit together, where there are more and more broken families, feel that their family is also a family. However, it is right - and in the law we are also trying to introduce the role of the state in helping the family to realize positive parenthood. Because if we find that the family is increasingly having problems, then the question is also on the ground how the country, through its actions, especially non-governmental organisations, civil society, helps the family to carry out its primary concern. It is not the legislator’s intention to punish families if they do not behave and carry out parental care as necessary, but it is particularly important that he provide them with assistance. And with the family code we go there, we go in this direction because we realize that families need this help because of the pressures we are living in today. The visual information is also that when we look at how much time we have to spend actively with our children, we show our mothers better, our fathers are getting worse, and it also shows that we need to think about these things, about the quality of our family relationships, not about the family structure itself, which is not crucial. And just one more thing has been mentioned on several occasions: that there are psychiatric associations and all professional associations in Slovenia against this code. That's just not true. The most frequently exposed representative of the psychoanalytical course is Mr Roman Vodeb, who has neither a doctorate nor an official representative of this school. If we ask for the same opinion from someone else in this area, he will give a different opinion. Here's to take the debate so everyone can find those they like and quote what they don't. We have studied various studies with full responsibility. Also by the Catholic Institute in Germany, which was quoted several times at the beginning and whose research dates back to the mid-1970s and 1980s. A simple way to deal with such issues has changed and society's view on these issues has changed in Europe. In the European Union, the eight countries that regulate this area, such as the proposal, and in particular the countries that have recently regulated this area, regulate it in this way. Because it is not possible to regulate a whole area by means of separate legislation without taking certain elements of discrimination forward and maintaining them. That is why it is also the decision to regulate things in the family code, because we cannot give a certain group of all rights, that is, especially those rights that we believe belong to them, and some do not. If we respect the rule of law, human rights on our basis, then these must be given without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u63	Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to give my opinion on this occasion. I will not talk about those parts, the provisions of the proposed law, which are actually positive, but I will focus more on the second part, that is to say on the marriage and the provision where the proposal for a code in the section on adoption expressly stipulates that spouses or extra-marital partners can adopt children together. Thus, the bill also allows homosexual partners the possibility of establishing a family by adoption. In this regard, the applicant assesses that the equivalence of the legal regime of homosexual and heterosexual living communities includes also an equation in relation to third parties - and here is the whole 'catch'. So, the proponent, the government or coalition, wants to show some higher degree of civil development than advanced thinking and the world view that some Members are not supposed to understand. Indeed, I cannot personally understand homosexual needs, but I certainly know that homosexuality, both gay and lesbian, is a biological, evolutionary deviation that would be more effective in treating it, either psychologically, therapeuticly or medically. These are things that are stable, that's all possible today if we really want to help them. But that's one thing. I would also like to draw attention to something else, even more worrying, which is the growing aggressiveness and power of the homosexual lobby, including in Slovenian society. Once, the gay domain was mainly "show business", fashion and so on. But this time they picked, obviously, another way - that's politics. Apparently, in Slovenian politics, they have come across a rather fruitful floor and today's vote will also be confirmed, although the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenians reject this, which you can also see with your own eyes today, with the presence of others and those who in some way protest against it. That in Slovenian society these days there have been deviant phenomena in this direction, let's just remember that when some slightly more aggressive Slovenian boys beat up a homosexual, there was such a circus that even special police officers intervened, I don't know, everyone suspects who was the one who was forcing such interventions, and I also understand that every government has to do something for themselves. But that she has set this as one of her priorities, so is the exercise of the rights of homosexuals, and I can't understand that. I'm sorry, I can't really understand; I'm raised in the atmosphere of a normal family, and again someone is going to say it's a normal family, but this is a hypocrisy. For it is a matter of foreign children, it is not a matter of children here present Members, probably because if you question your conscience, what would happen in the case of a purely hypothetical one, that you die in a car accident, that your little son remains alone, that no one else can take over it, and that under this law could take over two homosexuals, I do not know whether you would allow it as an exit to force, whether you would accept it posthumously, or whether you would turn it into a grave if it applied to something like that. It is therefore a warning of child abuse, which will be - and believe me, if the additional legislation does not provide for this and prevent such cases, we will run into worse cases in Slovenian society than we see every day, this is a risk of the spread of various deviantities, from sodomy, sadism, pederastia, incest, paedophilia, not to mention sexual violence. The Baricevic affair has shown that it has spread a great deal in our society. The masks are falling. What you're saying now, Madam Secretary, this is a delusion. It is not a question of adoption in a heterosexual community where children cannot have children or where certain circumstances have arisen. It is the danger of unnatural communities, that is, homosexual communities that can lead to, as I said before, such deviations, which today in this Slovenian society, unfortunately, have grown so far as we must be concerned. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u65	Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear guests. I'm mostly sad today, and not just today, I've been sad for a long time. When I was elected to this Parliament, I expected to meet people with broad-mindedness and broad-heartedness. And I find that we have witnessed so many times here such delicacies, so primitive that one simply cannot believe it anymore. Look, just now, my colleague, Mr Györek, who left the hall, said, "Look what happened. There were some more powerful guys beating up a homosexual." Tomorrow we're going to say, "Yeah, nothing, one of the stronger guys, and they were happy because they drank a little bit -- that's also the value in this society -- they beat up a southerner." They'll say someone who's just less valuable to this great Slovenian intelligence and consciousness. You know, it's extremely dangerous for this society. I would agree with colleagues who have warned today that there is a crisis of values in this Slovenia; is the crisis of values - just what? We remind ourselves of some fear that two homosexual partners would adopt a child. It is legitimate to have doubts about all things, but why?Oh, my God! We, both the Minister, both the Secretary of State and everyone who advocates that the same-minded people must be treated equally in this society, are fighting for this very thing: we are all the same in this society, this is what our constitution requires of us. And that's what we're fighting for, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to express my view of these fears about homosexuality in our country. All: psychologists, psychiatrists, sociologists warn that fear and non-acceptance is primarily a matter of fear of the unknown. I think if those people who are very big fighters against homosexual partners and adoptions of children knew some same-sex person, they might find it easier. Some of my colleagues have already listed some well-known foreigners and Slovenians who are sexually oriented. Mr President, if we could keep our voices down a little bit, I am very disturbed by this speech in the Chamber. Few people know that they were among homosexuals: Alexander the Great, Michelangelo, Caravaggio, Oscar Wilde, the film player Cary Grant, who was so adored by our moms, grandmas. Today we have a singer named Elton John, a number of other famous artists. Of course, there are many politicians. He also warned his colleague earlier, our famous leaders on Slovenian TV and so on, are among them. Let me tell you something else. In particular, from the type of opposition that so insistently demands a referendum for this area, I personally know a number of people who are also sexually oriented. I am sorry that among them there are those who have decided to marry and have children because of misunderstandings. And they hide their same-sex orientation from the whole society just because it's so homophobic. Let's move on! You say this is against European standards. That's not true! You've heard both the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Which countries have introduced such a regime - the most developed countries, the most democratic countries in this Europe. And we stick to some of the 16th and 17th centuries' catalogue standards and some Jesuit and inquisitor ways. What are we going to do with those same-sex women we hate so much? Are we gonna put them in the camps, put them on the bushes? Come on, come on! I mean, that doesn't make any sense. It pains me something else that in this society - and also these strong authors of electronic messages that were sent to us in an organized and networkly well prepared, I must say what was the main offense and the main requirement: father and mother. Let's see what research shows, what all things show. I too am for a child to grow up with a father and a mother, but with a father and a mother who are a good father and a mother. In Slovenia, however, we have a lot of alcoholics who beat up women who beat up children who are the worst possible example for these children. Then we have pedophilia. Listen, let's not close our eyes! All these phenomena that have occurred in Slovenia so far have not been in the same-sex communities. But no one is justified - I'm not saying that maybe some same-sex-oriented thing wouldn't do anything stupid. But that can't be the reason to stop these people from being equal to all of us. I think that because of those 30 cases of same-sex relationships that are recorded, registered in Slovenia, such behaviour, such raising of dust and such a great fear of God knows what, great, great deception and great disappointment for all advanced thinking people.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u67	Yes, Mr. Györek, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I have to, Madam colleague of classics. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u69	Excuse me, excuse me, you're out of time, you've spent all your time, including those two minutes that were promised at the time by Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u70	Yeah, so where do we get these two minutes, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u71	No, you got it. It's been accounted for.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u72	Is that in there already?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u73	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u74	We'll deal with this outside.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u75	You're out of time, Mr. Györek. Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The law, as it stands before us, I will support it. The law follows in the introduction to the announced objectives, which guarantee greater benefits and better position of children, quicker resolution of cases, more appropriate positions of social work centres and, of course, also resolves the issue of the Constitutional Court decision. The law means a systemic solution, because so far the rights of those affected have essentially been scattered by a number of laws and more or less insufficient and in terms of discrimination. The law has built-in mechanisms that fully protect the child. The law does not have a single solution that would harm anyone, and this is unreasonably evident because of the misunderstanding of matters under the law. At least it's true that for a child, the only safe point is the classic family. There are 200,000 chronic alcoholics in the country, most of whom are married and in those classical families where their parents and mothers have children, but they are not safe children and it would be much better not to live in such families anymore. It would be better to live with those who are not alcoholics, in peace and in significantly better conditions for growth, for development and for their relationship to alcoholism, for it is known that most children living in such families are later themselves chronic alcoholics. The fact that the law means grading a family is a fantasy that no one can prove by a single word in this marriage. Those who read this law of quality cite things that are not in marriage. Many of the e-mails we received have three main points of content: for the first time, they prove that those who have not read the law do not accept different ones and glorify a classical family, which is not a guarantee of a child’s good standing, for its growth and development, but for the child what is the relationship of one, two parents, such or other parents in any family. What is the attitude toward them, this is the foundation that is important to the child, and nothing else. The perceptions of how the same-sex adopts children are attracted to the hair, by the way, because the adoption is decided by the court after it finds that all the conditions in favour of the child are met so that they can grow and develop properly. I think it is right to stress this - it is not the adopters who decide whether or not they will have a child, but the court. In view of the state of the spirit in our country, the possibility of adopting a child by same-sex partners alone and only on paper is announced, which means, if you ask me, only the same possibility under the law, which will happen extremely rarely, if at all. Therefore, at this point, building a decision to discriminate against those living in the same-sex community as regards the right in principle does not seem right and I reject it. In short, the law follows the benefit of the child, the law follows the elimination of discrimination according to the form of the family. That's why he's worth my support. I've never had trouble accepting anything different. But I do know that, for example, in the first crematorium in Hitler's Germany, they were first burned in the same sex, mentally affected and hemophiliacs, in order to cleanse the race. This was something other than what we want, and that is why my marriage has my backing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u77	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Minister! If a fugitive observer or a listener of today's debate were to conclude on the basis of the content and the majority of the debates we are discussing today, he would think that we might be discussing the law on homosexuality and not the family code. I understand why homosexuality is such an interesting topic in one way and why it is such an interesting topic, because it was a topic that was interesting for centuries, not least if we look at it in Egypt and at the beginning of centuries and so on. The area of sex was an area that was always interesting for intimidation, and the area of sex was interesting for governance, for subordination and for control. Not so long ago, we know how and how different sexually oriented individuals and individuals were persecuted. That I do not renew all historical debates because my colleagues are here, and not lastly, mags. Genius, you've said a lot about it. Of course it's interesting. We listed the names. I would only, by the way, because we also translated a book, a very interesting study on Edgar Hoover and the FBI in the U.S., about the man who was the most oppressor and the most persecutor of homosexuals, but he was a homosexual himself. I don't know if that tells you anything, but in the transfer, think about how and why it was controlled, persecuted and ruled, and so on in this particular area, in the area of sex, in our constitution, in the area of sex, it is clearly stated that this area must not be an area of distinction, exclusion or any area of anything. This is said to be the area of sex in itself. And homosexuality is not a deviant phenomenon, homosexuality is a natural thing. And if we take it as soon as possible, it'll make life easier. Because speaking of children, this present - day code is a family code, and this code has actually done a great deal for the rights of children we have not talked about. For those who talk so much, what if your child and so on - not least, colleagues and colleagues think if your child is born a normal, healthy, happy, wonderful musician, but will be directed so. Think of it that way. Since we are talking about children's rights, I think that the quality of life in one community, whatever it is, is most important to these communities for co-existence and for the growth of individuals. I think that, for us citizens and citizens, it is most important for the child to grow up and stay in one quality environment, to feel love, regardless of whether it is the love of the grandmother, aunt, uncle, not least of all anyone - and whatever its orientation is. This codex was made up of 15 if not 20 years. A lot of studies, a lot of thinking, a lot of scientists have been involved - and not only in Slovenia, but also around the world have been looking for good practices, how and how to actually enable everyone to live a normal life, full of love and a pleasant environment. I think that this law is worthy of respect to support it because it has found so many good ways, how and in what way to enable a child to live a decent and normal life, which so far, from all the jurisprudence that has been, unfortunately, we have not been able to see. I would like to read perhaps one question from one such study, published in Dorian Kržana's book Starting New Forms of Relativehood. That is, the chapter Begins tells us how it began to end history. "In fact, it is surprising that new reproductive technologies in their simpler form are not even particularly new. The form of conception and birth with the help of both public and scientific discourse is certainly the most controversial, i.e. the method in which a woman gives birth to another woman. If we consider all the additional possibilities offered by technology, this is a kind of pre-arranged adoption, which in itself is nothing new. In the Old Testament, we can find the story of Sarah’s failure to bear a child. But she had an Egyptian girl named Hagar. Sara said to Abram, "Look, sir, I'm not allowed to have a baby. Go to my girl, maybe I'll have a baby after her." Abram listened to Sarah, after 10 years, Abraham’s wife Sarah took her Egyptian girlfriend Hagar and gave her husband to Abram as her wife. He went to Hagar and started. Hagar bore the son of Ishmael to Abraham, and later Sarah gave birth to another son of Isaac, who before God was Abraham’s only son. From today’s point of view, it is certainly interesting that Ishmael, though Abraham’s genetic son, also Isaac, is not in some way considered Abraham’s child, which is simply a quick consequence of his being born in adultery, but he did exist. In the Bible we also find clues to the possibility of a gifted seed, namely, the story of Onnan, when the firstborn of Judah died, Judah commanded Onnan, "go to your brother's wife and make the covenant a duty to her to raise up her brother's offspring." I think that the stringiness of these sentences for those who are so critical is this: actually a good family code, very clear. Thank you so much for listening to me and for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u79	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary and the Coalition! If this law had been written without this disputed provision on the possibility of adoption of children, it would probably have been adopted, if not unanimously, by a constitutional majority at least. I'm pretty sure of that. And I agree with myself that many of the solutions in this marriage are good, indeed in the interests of the child and the family. However, this cannot imply that it is now trying to enable the adoption of children by the same-sex partners through the side door. This is the abuse, something I think we should never afford in Slovenia. Earlier, a colleague had mentioned that since 195 countries, only seven of them allowed by this law, and earlier a coalition colleague had said that they were the most developed countries. I am asking all of you whether the Republic of South Africa is really one of the most developed countries. I don't think such comparisons are appropriate. This is where you refer, especially to those who apologize for such solutions, that this law pursues the rights of children. Again you abuse this truly well-intentioned, you might say, a gesture: the rights of children. But I'm asking you, did anyone ask the kid if he agreed to have two dads or two moms? No one! In fact, it is abused; it is imposed on a child, especially when he is small, and this is the most common. It means that he abuses a child, not that he is somehow guaranteed a right. Earlier, the State Secretary had explained, including some in the coalition, that institutions would be the ones to judge whether the child could have same-sex parents. That's the problem. I am very much concerned about the institution, especially in Slovenia. In the past, we have been able to ask ourselves many questions, and we have also been informed, informed in public, how many abuses there have been, the bad decisions of social work centres. How many fathers or mothers have been deprived of due to subjective, unprofessional decisions! How many wrong decisions have been made in the courts! And I fear that in the future it is also possible to expect a number of abuses by powerful people who are connected to such or other networks that have an impact. Who can ensure that this cannot happen to a child? And God forbid that happens, but I think that the Bulmastif case could also illustrate how our legal system works. And if only one child had been wronged on this basis, I think that the responsibility of all of us, especially in the coalition, is too great for you to allow. The child is for us, at least I hope we are all aware of this, the greatest wealth. And I believe that the greatest wealth is primarily for biological parents. Even those who wish to have children, especially heterosexual communities, who are not allowed by nature to have them, want and give everything to be able to have a child. Some speakers refer to how many alcoholic families we have in Slovenia, how much violence we have in families. I agree, we have too much of this. Let us find marriage solutions to solve such problems - to eliminate alcoholism in families, to eliminate violence or at least reduce it! But if you think that the solution to the problems of alcoholism and domestic violence is the possibility that same-sex couples can adopt children, you are very, very wrong. With what right do you want to legitimize the possibility that children can be adopted by those who are not allowed to do so? With what right do you now try to show that it is the right of each individual or of every same - sex community to have a child? That's not true! That's not true! Having a child cannot be a human right, for it is nature who says the final word here! But it is true that it is the right for anyone to decide if, of course, nature allows him to have a child or not. With what right do you want to attribute here and now the responsibility that a child who will have same - sex parents will be subject to contempt, ridicule in the most sensitive years, these are children’s years! Whoever says it's not true - it's definitely true. Even children who have alcoholic parents who have domestic violence and that this is known in society - many times it is known - are the subject of this. And here too, this seal will leave irreparable consequences for these children. There is no need for a child who, for example, would be in the same - sex community to take such a sexual stand. There's probably no way to say for sure. But surely, in his mental, emotional life, he will have irreparable consequences. And that is why, because of this provision, I cannot support it in any way, and I hope that you will, in the coalition as usual, confirm that a referendum will come to pass, and then let the people decide what this society wants and what this society needs; and above all what our society can provide for some development, as well as a perspective. The same-sex communities certainly are not a prospect for the development of any society, nor are the Slovenian communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, the well-respected remain present. The proposal also regulates the area of the community of two partners of the same sex, which are now regulated by the Law on Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community and by its content, falls within the area of family law. This has not yet been regulated by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. In view of the conclusion that there are two persons of the same sex living in today's society who help each other and, after a certain period of cohabitation, those persons did not have a legally regulated material and social relationship, the Act on the Registration of the same-sex community was adopted which allowed not only the registration of the same-sex partnership but also recognised certain rights and obligations for the partners of that community. These are mainly reflected in the area of property law, as it is necessary in the community to regulate issues such as participation in assets acquired during and after the duration of such a community, the obligation to survive as well as other rights and obligations. The Constitutional Court in its constitutional procedure Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Community, which regulates succession between partners of the same-sex partnership, found that Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership with the Constitution was inconsistent. At the same time, the Constitutional Court stated that the registered partnership is a relationship which, according to its content, is similar to that of the marriage or of the non-legislative community. For the community too, a stable relationship between two people close to each other, helping each other and supporting each other is essential. The ethical and emotional essence of the reacting partner community, as expressed in Article 8 of the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership, whereby partners or partners must respect each other, trust each other and assist each other, is similar to that of a woman and a man. The legal regime of this relationship is also similar to that of marriage. The law on the registration of the same-sex partner community also guarantees certain mutual rights and obligations, protects the weaker partner, regulates the legal situation towards third parties, the country, the social environment. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court finds that in view of all of these, in the essential same factual and legal bases of the living community, both a registered same-sex community and a community between a woman and a man, it shows that the distinction in the system of succession is based, not on some real, non-personal different circumstances, but on sexual orientation. However, sexual orientation, although not explicitly stated, is undoubtedly one of the personal circumstances referred to in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. It is a personal property that has a significant impact on an individual’s life, and it is accompanied by circumstances such as race, sex, birth, and whole life. The European Court of Human Rights, although it is not among the expressly mentioned circumstances of Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, also considers gender as a circumstance under which distinction is prohibited. The Constitutional Court thus found that the succession regime was different and further found that the challenge to the succession regime under the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Community was contrary to the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution. In view of the Constitutional Court's finding that it is essentially the same factual and legal basis of the community of life - the registered same-sex community and the community between women and men - and that the distinction in the legal regime of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, is based not on some real, non-personal and distinct circumstances, but on sexual orientation. The proposal for a code equates such a community in all its elements with a marriage which is, according to the new definition, a living community of two persons of the same or different sex. In addition, the proposal recognises the legal consequences of the life of two persons of the same sex who have not entered into a marriage, but there are no reasons why the marriage between them would be invalid. Such a legal arrangement is intended to fully follow the position of the Constitutional Court that two persons of the same sex are living in a community of the same rights and the actual basis of the community as is applicable to a marriage governed by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The marriage or extramarital union of two persons of the same sex therefore has the same legal consequences as the marriage or the extramarital community of two persons of different sexes, also in relation to children in the adoption process. The proposer sees no real reason not based on personal circumstances, a sexual orientation that should prevent these adoptions from being allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, colleagues! In this proposal, Article 3 is in fact disputed. Article 3 says. "The marriage is a two-person community." That's not true. This is not a living community of two, but it is a living community of husband and wife. And that's why, these two people, colleagues and colleagues, you talk so much about human rights or children's rights here today. That's not true. In this law, in fact, because of Article 3, you speak only of the rights of homosexuals, only about the rights of same-sex partners, and you talk here today that same-sex partners are not alcoholics, they're not drug addicts, they're not, I don't know, they're heterosexuals, and you're calling them mostly drunks, drug addicts, etc. In this law you actually criminalize a biological father and mother. [[Thank them for starting me, and also, probably, everyone else can thank their parents for that.]] However, if such a law were in force, perhaps many of you today would not be here. You're criminalizing your father and mother so that if the child "slaps" his ass or gives him an earring. It's now become a crime. However, you do not criminalize this or bring a child under certain rights, under human rights, under something that is - that is, a multiplicity of the rights of individual homosexuals. So they have the right to have a child and to raise it. That's what you do with this law. Today, who will ask who will ask the child at any time, whether they agree or disagree? He won't have a chance! Do not say that you are doing a law that will protect your child's rights, an elementary right of the child, because he cannot protect it in this way, because the child, an old month or two or two, of course knows nothing about it. But by law, you're going to put this child in some same-sex society. I'm the father of three children. So it doesn't matter what the inclination of the child is, but it is important, and so I ask you, how many of you would want to adopt your own child - also Mrs State Secretary, who has previously performed such a vehemently - to give her own child to the same-sex family, one or the other - a daughter to two same-sex men or a son to two same-sex women. So these are the real questions and, colleagues and colleagues, you just don't have the answer to that. The Slovenian public even plebiscitefully said no to this law. After all, I am deeply convinced in my soul that many people on the side of the SD do not feel that way. And I'm pretty sure the minister doesn't feel the way he does. And, if you want, this was even the case between us, fellow Members, that this is a project of two other smaller coalition parties that have failed with another project and obviously want to succeed with this project. So can values depend entirely on a certain authority? Colleagues and colleagues, whatever this authority is; no, values cannot depend solely on some authority! This raises the question of who this government represents, who adopts such legislation, who decides what these people think about it. In particular, let us not forget, colleagues and colleagues, who sometimes comes to Parliament, what these people are like and what interests they have. Do they have the interests of the state? Do they have the interests of society, of man, of family interests, or of any other interest? Unfortunately, after the new year, in fact, there are some entirely different interests, some spider nets, something completely different because, even if it does happen, such a law cannot bind all citizens and citizens, it cannot bind us, at least because of our conscience. Of course, it is natural that I myself will oppose such a law, even a law that is outside the basic value systems. If this law had been passed, then we would have destroyed the natural balance, but with such a vote we would have begun to dig the grave of the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. The minister still thinks what he's saying. And I hope I won't have to deviate from this principle. Since there have been some debates on this subject, I would still like to say: let's see where we agree. We agree that there is a right to father and mother. Only we say, to a good father, and above all to a good relationship in a community where there is an individual. The studies that we have cited show that sex in this combination is not as important as the relationship that people establish with each other in ensuring that a young creature can develop into a full and mature person. And this research proves that there is no problem in these communities. Regrettably, despite this right that you are stressing, this right to a father and mother is not feasible in all cases, so adoption is taking place because children who are unable, capable or unwilling to be adopted by their own parents are simply born. In this case, of course, adoption takes into account. Adoptions of those adult husbands and wives who decide whether they have their children or cannot have them, and here in this right there is no pre-opportunity, because there is no evidence that this would be problematic, it is necessary and possible to exclude non-sex-oriented ones. We agree that family is the foundation of society, but we look a little wider. Each family, each community, is important where these primary relationships are established among people where children are born, where children develop. Above all, as we say, it is important that this is a quality community, each. And if we agree to a traditional family, as we say, we cut off so much as half the society, we don't care, there's no constitutional part of this society that we live in. Can you explain this to all those who do not live in traditional families, that they are not equal, equal?Oh, my God! Can you explain that?Oh, my God! Can we take those rights away from them?Oh, my God! We can't! Once again, the question of how many equally oriented communities are. As it is said, every count is discriminatory, I probably can't at this moment answer, even unlawfully from this point of view, that people should not be discriminated against on this basis. It doesn't matter how many there are! It is important for us that everyone in this country enjoys the same rights as a citizen if they respect the laws if they are followed by the laws laid down by that country. And you can't say in advance that same-sex people don't live by these laws and don't respect them. Where do you have any evidence of this? They're gone. And that doesn't lead in the right direction, this logic of thinking. So by denying the same rights of same-sex couples we stigmatize them, and in this debate against the Code we feel in advance this message: they are not the same, they are different, we have to treat them differently, we have to put them in a different position. They are given the opportunity to abuse these institutes in advance. Where's the evidence that they're being abused? There's nothing on the table of empirical evidence for this, there's evidence that it's not happening, we don't have any reverses. And that logic seems very problematic to me. I'm going to go this way, as you yourself have pointed out, some of you have put an analogy with paedophilia here. And now, if we were to follow this logic forward and identify where this big thing is, we know what the reports from America, Ireland, Germany, and we've had a lot of these cases. By this logic, as a country, if we were to follow this logic of thinking, we should prohibit contact with young people with all the employees of the Church, so as not to expose them to this danger in order to avoid these deviations. And we're not going to do that because we think it's wrong to stigmatize someone in advance because of individual cases. And even in the case of homosexuality, we can't do that, and you're doing it. And one more thing. The same-sex orientation is a voluntary relationship between people, paedophilia is a violent relationship, and it is a crime that needs to be prosecuted. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, especially for your explanations, because it is possible to agree with them and therefore to shorten the debate. This code is important because it's child protection. It is very problematic, however, that some of you want to reduce these 303 articles to one or two - one that allows the adoption of children to same-sex partnerships. Here we hear estimates of which family is normal, natural, we can say what is a more appropriate term, traditional. And I agree with the estimates that it is not possible to raise either one, or the other, or the third type of family. There can be derogations everywhere, there can be abuses everywhere. Today, we can read about his father’s rape of a six - year - old daughter, but the mother recorded the act. This family is certainly not normal. And here we can use that term. And there's talk of pedophilia. I also detected zoophilia today. So we want to mix up everything that's criminal and what the minister said, which is on a voluntary basis. We want to throw everything in the same basket and thus reject the family code, but it's not that easy. When we talk about adoptions of children, there is a chapter in this law that speaks about adoption. And when we talk about the possibility of adoption, I stress the possibility of adopting same-sex partnerships, the fact is that it is possible for them, like all the other communities we recognise. By the time of adoption, however, many things must be done and many conditions must be met, which are also enshrined in this code. And if we count by the number that ten times more or more of those who want to adopt children than the possibility of adoption, of course, the probability and the path to adoption are very thorny. And when I said earlier that it is not possible to talk about automation and that some families are good, some are not, of course, important, as has already been said, that we evaluate the family according to relations within this partnership community, not by sex, because it is important in what relationship a child lives in. With regard to parenthood and who would give a child up for adoption, it is likely that the decision to adopt a child is not very simple, regardless of who that child would be assigned to adoption. And it is very inappropriate to ask whether one of us would be pleased if one of us put his child into adoption as a same-sex partner. The answer is like a hand: the parents we have decided for the children, of course, we raise these children and we want to raise good children, good citizens, and we have not even thought about adoption, which is why it is not possible to fill, of course. But they are children who do not have parents and who can only get them by adoption. There are some who don't admit it. There are others who can't admit it, and they have it - also because they can live as long as they can. So we have in the past come to realize that same-sex are an integral part of our society, and we said: well, we admit it. If they want to live together, it doesn't bother us - let them live together. But if they want to have children, no, not this time. Perhaps after a while the view will be different, even in history it has been quite different. But in doing so we ignore the actual situation today, which is and cannot be excluded from thinking even in the preparation of this code. After 100 children in Slovenia live, although I do not know what this is based on, but if the data is that we have 100 children today in Slovenia living this way, it is necessary to regulate it in the law in the protection of these children, so that these children will live safely in these communities even in the future, it is not possible to seal their eyes against what it really is. And when we talk about the appropriateness and inappropriateness of the family code, it is particularly important, although I agree with the Secretary of State that it is sad that half the law speaks about child protection. About them being more protected than they are being protected right now. And so, a little bit after finding that it's really not wrong for someone to slap their child a little bit, whether it be public or behind walls or walls of apartments or houses, that's different if you do it in public, they see you, and some have already had this bad luck here, in this House, that they've just noticed it. And now say it's allowed, of course it's not! And this code is very clear on that. It is true that the old saying: When you step on the cat's tail, that conundrum! And this time, I'd probably call back a few times.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Welcome to the Minister and Secretary of State. I must say that I am happy and proud of both of you, you have cooperated constructively in the good, modern European law, and these positions are also strongly defended, as is necessary. A responsible policy responds to the challenges of time and does what is right, not so that everyone will like it every moment. But I must say, of course, I was sure that the times of the witch hunt, the Inquisition and the Middle Ages had long passed. According to these words, which they had in common: hate speech, discrimination, insults, instigation of lies, deception and other things, I must say that I am not feeling well and I am ashamed. Of course, we do not attach these to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club. But we see in this law, which is a bouquet, a complex of many solutions that have one common denominator: they are good, they are for the child. And I am pleased now that those most zealous have taken the lead behind the advocates and gone after their work, that the debate is more calm, more substantial, more reasoned and that even from the opposition colleagues who spoke something else earlier after their official duty, we get recognition for this law, so that, of course, the law, which has 303 articles, is disputed in only two articles, was given all the support, but only if it did not. And that, of course, gives me the hope that we have drawn up a good law, such as, say, Spain, Sweden and other European countries, with which we want to compare ourselves every day in every field. However, for me, the pattern of human rights and some solutions to regulate relations in society are certainly not Poland. As a Member, as a European, as a citizen, as the father of two children, I want to compare myself with some other goals and ideals that other countries in Europe are preparing and have already tried. I grew up in a traditional family, and my children grow up in such a family. I am proud and happy to do so, but I am always concerned that in this society these opportunities and rights, unfortunately, are not all. I feel responsible for taking care of others so that they will be better and better in this world. There's a lot of talk about adoption of children who can adopt them, but let's put our hands on them, all those children who are even able to adopt belong to 99.9% of the so-called "normal heterosexual families", and these families didn't give them what they should; and that's what we have to worry about. I am also pleased that, in his speech, Mr Tsukati has made it clear that homosexuality is not a disease, that it is an interpretation of the past and that there is no criminal act, except in countries with Sharia law - but I do not want to compare myself with them. The law does not in any way promote the formation of same-sex families or make them a model or ideal, but merely regulates rights and duties in family communities. The fact is, whether we miss or not, that in this country, in this society we have different and many marriage communities, that children - and this is what we are dealing with in this code - let us settle their rights in a modern, modern way. I am pleased that those who oppose just two articles see this and notice it, and we will certainly go forward with this story and the law, as it is, for the sake of rights, for the protection of children, will receive my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u92	Mr. President-in-Office. First, I would ask this esteemed assembly or coalition the question: Were Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia elected to work in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Were we chosen to work in the interest of certain elites or individuals? I am confident that this question will be answered in the next State elections. I must emphasise and say, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and it is very clear to us that such a proposal as you put on the table, namely the proposal for a family code, is not acceptable and will never be accepted for two key reasons. Today many things have been said, and I must say once again very clearly to the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I, as Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, am in no way opposed to the fact that the same-sex partners can marry each other, that they can love to do anything, in no way, and I will never agree that they can adopt children or that the same-sex partnership could be equal to the heterosexual family, that is, the family of the father, the mother and the child. And the question that I raised in the beginning when I speak, whether the position of work in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I will try to explain. Dear colleagues and colleagues, look here I have over 300 e-mails received in the last two days from the whole country of the Republic of Slovenia. Among these documents there is not one single document written in favour of the adoption of the family code as proposed. And dear colleagues, I will make an effort to read some of the thoughts of these people who have sent us these documents. That is: "As representative of the Slovenian people in your Parliament, so in our Parliament, I ask you to make a decision in a responsible and majority opinion, which you have clearly observed, when adopting the family code. First of all, I ask you to put yourself in a place in the skin of a child who will not be willing to land in an abnormal environment. Neither does the relationship between two men or women compare with that of a woman and a man, because it is simply not the same community and it will never be. For the whole thing, I don't need to know any additional explanations, because the thing is so simple that if Parliament were composed of children under 6 years of age, we would certainly understand and heed the request before you. Once again, please don't compare things that will never be the same. Anja and Viktor." I quote: "I hope you remember how you grew up in your families and what your family meant to you. It was, it was, and it's going to be the base cell of society. If the family falls apart, society falls apart as a whole. And what kind of nation will we be? Ask yourself that! Family is a community where fathers, mothers and children are the most suitable environment for the healthy and quality growth of young people." This was written by the president of the Society, Angelica Likovic. Next. I quote: "The right of the child to normal development must be one of the primary rights of society if we want an unselfish society. In the light of all the studies presented by various kekki in public, I can assure you from knowing specific cases that they are either misinterpreted or simply wrong. The study must be designed for a specific cultural environment and must be made by learning the objective of the study: a child who does not have both characters, that is, a father and a mother, does not grow into a whole person. Any single mother will be able to confirm that if she can only be honest with herself and her child. Therefore, as a citizen, I demand that you think carefully about what this code means and not vote on the basis of the voting machine, but on your conscience. If you sincerely believe that there is nothing wrong with this law, support it, but have the courage to make it clear that the voters will know who voted for it and who should never be given the mandate again. Otherwise, I suspect you don't care and the dogs bark, the caravan goes on, Freider Prince." And I'm going to read another one: "I don't exclude people with same-sex tendencies, but the idea of adopting children to same-sex partners is preposterous unless it's criminal to children. The example that a child would receive in such a family would therefore be extremely wrong, and it is highly likely that such families would be sent to a world of increasing numbers of children or persons who would feel normal in a same - sex community, if not superior to men and women. And where does this long - term action lead to society? At all levels of social activity, moral decay is detected, but the law allows for something that is already fundamentally in conflict with the laws of nature and is a real disgrace to human dignity. Therefore, I urge you to think seriously about it when you decide to adopt a new family code, because your decision will have more profound consequences than you can imagine right now. With respect, Katja Berk Lahajner, Dr. medicine." And all these people who wrote this here are opposed to what the minister and the coalition are advocating. I think that's why my question I raised at the outset is very reasonable. The majority of the Slovenian public of this code, in the form it is prepared, does not support it, so I, as a member of the National Assembly and a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party and a Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, will never support it, because I am sure that these two articles do not belong in this family code either. These two articles are part of another law, the law on same-sex partnerships, and by no means the law, because there is no way that we can compare the same-sex partnership with a heterosexual family, i.e. with the family of the father, mother and child. I'm sure what he can give to his mother's children can never be given by a father. And what a father can give to a child can never give to a mother. Only what both of you can give to a child together is what is the optimist for the future development of a child. And that's what we're talking about here today - that we need to have a always and again placed child and his rights in the first place. And here, in this code are many times broken. Many times. Dear colleagues and friends, to the end. Some things seem important to me. I would like to tell you what you have accomplished in this mandate and what you have failed and then I will try to conclude. All of this is related to the family and the family code, either directly or indirectly. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In this mandate, you managed to burden the Slovenian country in the long term with compensation for the deleted, and you were able to change the law on the legal tariff - it is clear who was behind this law. You have managed to raise court salaries, but justice is still not working, this was now very clear from this garage affair. You've managed to reduce pension coordination by 50%. You've managed to reduce your student diet. You were able to vote on the capital law so that it would not have happened that Mr Jankovic would not have finished the promised stadium in Stožice before the local elections and that the debt to him would have been met because he helped you win the national elections. You've succeeded and you've managed to continue to set up agencies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u93	Mr. Pojbich. You have plenty of time and you can talk, but you probably know that's not the content of the family code.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u94	Mr. Vice President. In the introduction, I said why I would say this because I would end up with one thought and it is imperative that I say it. You have succeeded and continue to establish agencies where extra money is spent on taxpayers' money and new employment of the necessary political personnel. And I could count it, but I won't. However, you have failed, and I must stress this, to do absolutely nothing with regard to the rise in unemployment, which is increasing from day to day and already exceeds the limit of 100,000. There was nothing you could do to make the economy grow in the right direction, where new jobs would open up. You have not been able to accept anything in order to relax the credit crunch so that companies can start operating normally to get fresh capital and so on. Finally, for a treat: the purchase of a water cannon with which you want to provide prosperity to Slovenes and Slovenes. All those who know what the water cannon is used for are aware of the prosperity of Slovenia and Slovenia under this authority. Moreover, it is now even clearer why Mr Ertl has received a high state distinction from the President of the Republic. But you have done nothing to protect the fundamental value of every nation, that is family. And that's the key question. I am convinced that this is and must be the primary task of every authority, because it is the base cell of every society. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as in person such a bill as you proposed, with such content, we cannot possibly support it and believe that we will never support it. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to what I have read in one of the newspapers today: the opposition and the civil initiatives have said that, in the event that the code goes with such content, they will propose a referendum on this issue. But it has already been made clear, I think, by the Minister, Mr Svetlik, that they will give such a referendum decision to the Constitutional Court and try to prevent a referendum from taking place on this issue. This would, I think, exceed every measure not only of good taste, but every measure of attempt to evaluate democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. I hope to state and believe that in this direction the Government is not thinking at this time, because democracy in Slovenia is currently very, very oppressed. Every day we have new affairs and on this basis we can understand how things work in this country under this authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Without an agreement, the Presidents of the National Assembly were disciplined not to comment on any debate, unless it is not only over the Rules of Procedure, but if it is offensive and similar. But you yourself have pointed out that all the words you have said are so important that you will now be more without concern, and I allow you to do so. The next one made his statement to Mr Franz Bogovich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Magg has the word. Stefan Tessel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Family is the basic cell of society and also of the nation. A child needs a father or a mother to develop normally or to grow up in a community where both a woman and a man are. It is usually a matter of biological parents, and if understanding is satisfactory, conditions are created for a child to develop into a healthy person. However, not all children are so fortunate to grow up in an ideal family. Such children must be provided by the social state to ensure that appropriate laws and measures are as close to happy childhood as possible. There are many single - parent families, but some children do not have that kind of happiness and are left alone or abandoned or abandoned by their parents. On the other hand, there are quite a number of married couples who fail to reach their own child by becoming pregnant. In Slovenia there are about 300 such couples who want adoption. However, adoption is only possible every year for about 30 years. So they have to wait up to 10 years and more to adopt a child. Orphanages in Slovenia are not fortunate either, because proper care is appropriate. Thus, there is no need in Slovenia for children to be adopted by same-sex couples. In America, there are many abandoned children, children in orphanages, and if there is not enough demand for adoptions of heterosexual couples, it may be better for a child if he is in an orderly community, even if he is same-sex. There is no such need for happiness in Slovenia so far, and it is unnecessary for the law to be adopted in stock if this need arises. I am sure that most of us people in Slovenia do not want our children to be adopted in the event of an accident and so on in the same-sex partnership. The law emphasizes in particular the benefits for the child. We have been elected to Parliament as representatives of all people. We need to listen to them. We have received many e-mails where citizens express fear and doubt about such a legal solution or strongly oppose such a form of law. In the event that the coalition adopts such a law, the law will certainly fall at the referendum. Why would we charge each other? The same-sex communities are already dealt with in their law to be supplemented by the Constitutional Court and the family code to be intended for the benefit of the child and the family and thus the society and the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, minister, secretary of state! The proposal for a family code has brought a wealth of important innovations, especially innovations that protect the interests and benefits of the child in particular. The new family constitution, the new family code brings in a number of chapters a great deal of news and positive ones. Nevertheless, I feel that the preparation of the code has involved too many advocates of lesbian and gay communities and too few advocates of traditional families. It explains that we are adapting Slovenian legislation to the European legal order in this area, and we cannot talk about this. There are only eight countries in Europe, so I have also heard from the minister, who has saved the adoption of children of same-sex partners. In Slovenia, I think we are too hasty with this legal arrangement. Most Slovenians cannot accept the proposed definition of family. Slovenian society is only slowly adapting to such solutions, and in my opinion the burden will be borne by children, who are the most protected by the new family law. The proposer advocates the same-sex family as the right and the economic category. All rights are clearly recorded when carefully reading the draft Code, but the rights of the child to whom the law is intended are not. Let us see how a child should decide whether he wants to live in the same - sex community as a baby. There's only the right of adults here. And you'll probably answer me, because you can't even decide to live in the same-sex community or the same-sex community. The second problem of adoption is the economic invoice. What about the social environment? A third problem will be the child’s personality and character if he grows up to be only one. Most advocates equate gay and lesbian communities with the community of different genders of men and women. He advocates that the majority should not decide on a minority. Could it be that the minority exerts so much pressure on the majority to accept what they want? Respectable. I was elected to the National Assembly by voters, citizens. I was also elected mayor in one of the municipalities. I also want to represent the interests that have been shown to me in some way. As a member of the Dessus Group. Even the older generation in our country is very difficult to accept, and virtually to a large extent they are opposed. I propose that, in the National Assembly, we support the good solutions provided by the Codex, but that we resolve our doubts through the debate. If we fail to do so, let us resolve open questions later by supplementing the law or by means of a new law. At the moment, we do not have the majority support of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what I'm sure of without doing any analysis of the mood in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u100	Respectable. We are dealing with a law that can, I say, be at peace of mind in the direction of the gains that the democratic world has already adopted as those that build on certain standards that build on each other's standards, which build on relationships that govern relationships in society at a higher level. And just because my forerunner has stumbled into a minority, one of the fundamental issues in society is how the majority-minority relationship is regulated. The power of democracy is also measured by how it is treated equally by those whom you designate or who are referred to as "others"; let them be linguistic, ethical, sexual, sexual minorities and I do not know which. The concept of minority is applied sociologically, such as groups with less social power, which are either marginalised or even legally discriminated against in certain areas. You wonder why everything in this law should be regulated, and if there were only one or two articles, everything would be fine. No, these are not new thoughts in the Republic of Slovenia! 16 years old is the first idea and the bill was already there, but obviously there was no social consensus, at least at the level of the normal majority, to accept it. And this is about whether we belong to countries that have these standards at a higher level, more democratic, more friendly to all citizens and citizens of that country, or less. We want to support those solutions that will be tolerant, not xenophobic, not exclusive, and there are many arguments that have been said here. I must say that I was happy to listen to all the Minister's interventions, because I learned a lot from this, I expanded the horizon, but even though I had some sort of solutions in these benches 16 years ago that went in this direction, but unfortunately the situation was not appropriate, but it is true that some of the situations are once matured, others never, and I am always happy when we can take a step forward and in this sense also those solutions that are in this law. It bothers me to interpret the Convention on Human Rights when it comes to the fact that this Convention prohibits so-called adoption at the level of same-sex couples and so on. It's wrong, it's wrong, it's misleading or whatever, and it has to be said a hundred times and more. The Convention lays down the principle of children's rights as the principal leader, and I cannot accept and do not accept such interpretation of this Convention, even if they wish to prove to me that I am wrong. It seems to me that the principle of equality and equality, not only in this case, has essentially led us all together in the National Assembly, when we deal with any social issue, and this is one of the fundamentals if we say that the family is a fundamental cell in our country. And, of course, all exclusions are unacceptable to me. But the worst thing to me is this conviction of love, sexual relations, that the same-sex-oriented ones are driven by predispositions to crime, to criminal sexual acts, etc. Someone even said here that this also makes them more subjective and often subject to abuse than they would have been if they hadn't been so targeted. That's a claim I just can't understand. So he's been stigmatized by them anyway, and now all the more so because the unconscious, the criminals, whatever they put on top of him, pushed him even more. After all, I am glad that we are moving on to a time when these discussions will also be normal, and that Slovenia will join the countries that tolerate all these things and consider them normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u102	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll ask you first. All those who charged our phones in these days - who read these 280 pages? Which of the Members studied this? For today we are discussing two sides, everything else is irrelevant, but it is an extremely important document that regulates the problems in our society, which are more every day. I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, for this extraordinary work, with the team you have with you, and for today's two-time performance, because you have very clearly, very understandingly presented the views and problems we are talking about. At the beginning of this session there were quite a few lectures on what homosexuality is, what lesbianism is, etc., and these were also the words that said that it was possible to heal. I'm afraid of doctors who say it's possible to heal, but Mengele was also a doctor, I think. So let us be very careful where we are going and where we are going in this society. Someone's got an interest in everything being bad and shit, and he's giving us a lecture here, and he's doing a 360-degree, literally. However, allow me to present some of my views on the bill under consideration. First, the forms of violence experienced by a child. This is not just a physical punishment and too little can be said about those other forms of violence in this law. Nowhere is this opportunity to talk about how severe the pressures on a child are when we mention emotional pressures, psychosocial, spiritual, and others. This is what is worse, for the slapping, as a fellow Member who has experience in this, may not be the worst, but it is not necessary either. Furthermore, it is particularly inconsistent with the conclusion of the marriage of relatives at the level of the line, as it is said. This is not possible, the law prohibits it, but such two can only live in an extramarital relationship and have the same rights as other spouses. Such duties should be imposed on other obligations imposed on other marriages. In a chapter dealing with the responsibility and rights of parents and children, there is absolutely nothing written about the duty of children. As an old pedagogical worker, I would say that the duty of children should also be discussed. We have many times in mind children in kindergartens, up to the age of five and six. But there are young people here, there are students here, and they already have up to this society, up to the environment some duties that need to be prescribed, as this makes it easier for educational institutions to work. To end the problem of old parents. The law does not define the role of old parents anywhere, but I just think that if there is a situation where a child needs to be taken away or lost his parents, it is the first thing to offer that child to his or her parents or relatives, since the transition is the least painful for the child. And this should make this possible as a first step, if everything is, of course, normal and all right. Plus, social work centres have the opportunity, so it's their job to give professional advice to couples when they're divorced. In our environment, there are increasing numbers of counselors seeking help from these couples. Therefore, I think that it is also possible in this legislation to grant concessions to some qualified, educated, registered advisers who are in charge of the matter. Today, there have been countless times here, and on those pages most of the time, they all start out like, "I'm patient, I'm patient, but..." A colleague here on the other side, I counted how many times she said she was patient. When I walk down the street, I don't say I don't shoplift. Because I don't have to explain it. If we're patient, then let's show it with action, not to say I'm patient, but at the same time I say that these people need to be treated, that these people need to be taken to a psychiatrist. I think she was on the river recently, I read in the papers, some young woman being treated in a psych ward for lesbianism. Fortunately, she escaped and the whole of Europe rose up and leaned on her back because terrible things were happening. Don't make it in Slovenia! That's the purpose of this marriage. I'll be very happy to support him with some repairs myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Most of the debates of those who oppose the family code began today with the claim that a child needs a father and a mother. I ask you: is this really enough for a child? Is this the only thing he needs? [[....]] No! No! I am convinced that a child needs a caring, responsible, loving adult with himself or two or perhaps even more adults. And it all revolves around those who oppose it today, about the sex of this person, not the content of what these people give to the child. It's about how people live in the family. What connects them? Can they provide each other with what the family needs? This is primarily a sense of self-worth, a sense of security, a sense of acceptance, experience, love and the like. From this I could conclude that it is not the form of the family we are talking so much about today that it is the content that governs this family. And here is the hardness of the people, including those who here in Parliament today have the opportunity to speak and act as Members and Members, here this hardness of people, including blindness, including complexes, including prejudices, even rejection, including hatred. So we have different and diverse families, and these are also the result of love, and these have also been created as some form of a good search for the way of life that we all want. The shape of the family doesn't say anything about how good it is for people in this family. There is nothing to say about happiness in this family or about an accident in this family, about kindness, about welfare, and about danger. So the new family code opens up a new dimension in some way to confront homophobia. Even the one who rules within us. And to aim for everyone to contribute a piece to a tolerant inclusive society that will be right for all children, I stress to all children. Because the problem is not children, the problem is not different forms of families, but the problem is in our hypocrisy, how we are a hypocritical society. Because at the same time we demand on one side, and we talk about wanting to protect children, but at the same time loudly or less loudly, perhaps even slightly secretly, we protest and point to the pancreatics if I paraphrase from some strange, unnatural families. What worries me, and what we have heard today, which also raises concerns, doubts, and questions: Can children from same - sex families be subjected to psychological and physical violence? After today's debate, after what we're saying here in Parliament, I'm very afraid of that. I am very afraid that this is entirely possible in this society because of aggression, because we are very aggressive when we talk about different. What do we do here, even here in Parliament, to be accepted differently? Where's the tolerance? Where is the love of neighbor? Personally, I am deeply concerned by people, with such strong, unrelenting views as we have heard them today, who do not allow justice to others, even to a different family. Even to a different way. Tragically, many times the most intolerant, the most enormous, the most homophobic, those who should face this alone in their own nest, I will say, in their own family, and first find the strength to accept the difference in their loved ones, perhaps in their own children. That's what happened to us here today. And let me end by saying one interesting anecdotes, which Manca Kosher, who lived with two lesbians years ago and also had a son who was fertilized with biomedical help, of course it wasn't with us, because that's not possible with us, it was in England, and Manca asked this boy, "What do you say if you're being teased in kindergarten because you have two moms?" Well, this kid said, "Yeah, I don't have a father, so I have two moms, and not everybody." Well, this child may be what we should think about and face in our own way the problem or the fact that is before us. It was certainly made out of a relationship between two women, but we can peacefully say that out of a love relationship, out of desire for family, after warmth, after nesting, and we can say, as Manca Kosher wrote: "Only love is valid, so let us think of love as a criterion for judgment and not give in to our own prejudices and limitations that always lead us astray."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The former government has decided or committed itself to leading a targeted family policy to improve the possibility of harmonising work and family life in order to promote parenthood, to create an atmosphere that will favour families in order to facilitate their decision-making for the first and every future child. She arranged for the nutrition of high school students, the area of scholarships, housing relief, relief for large families and the like. After decades, the number of births has begun to increase, the involvement in kindergartens has increased, and important steps have been taken to prevent domestic violence. The number of divorces after 10 years of persistent increase was reduced by 13% last year and subsequently last year. Certainly also due to the discussions of some measures, people's thinking, what are the values, what is important in life, the offers of family and marriage therapists, and also because of the law adopted by the previous government, the law on the prevention of violence in the family, which offers the possibility of treatment for the abuser, counselling, assistance in families that are due to different circumstances, the dependency of all species that are not from anything but may arise due to many circumstances, the past, perhaps because someone has lost their job. And according to research, the family is first among the values in Slovenian society. Therefore, we would expect that in this substance and changes in this area, careful and analytical action will be taken to analyse the possible weakness of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, by analysing what happened when we established the possibility of registering an extra-marital relationship, with accurate data on single-parent families, with information on what was going on with children growing up in a single-parent family. Believe me, a mother who lives alone with children has no simple task. The child must be a mother and a father, but his father can't be, so a child who lives alone with his mother is looking for role models with his uncle, teacher, soccer coach, because he needs the ideal, he needs a role model. And the child who lives with his father is more attached to his grandmother, his father's sister, his teacher. Many single mothers or fathers want a family, work in this direction, and then, for various reasons, his or her family break up or break up. Proponents of the new family code like to say that the family is in crisis, that there is also violence in our classic families, alcohol, and children living in disorderly families. That's a lot of things, so we passed the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. And you're not solving these problems for the first time in your new marriage. Important steps have taken place before you, and it is not true that we have closed our eyes and that we should not have talked about this years ago. There was talk and action, so we did these things. You're saying there's alcohol in many families. Don't statistics show that children take samples? And many of the families where alcohol reigned also become alcoholics. Is it not then a question of whether the same - sex children will be more inclined or equally oriented or not? He's doing a pattern, like his parents, like the environment he lives in. And he may never be happy, satisfied as such, but that's what he knows. This will affect him, and perhaps he would live and think differently if he knew a man and a woman, a mother and a father, and would recognize it as a pattern and an ideal. That's how I want to live on my own, and I want to have a family like that myself. The government, or family code advocates, compare the relationship between a man and a woman and the relationship between an same - sex partner. The Constitutional Court, in its decision concerning the Article on the Functioning of the Law on the same-sex marriage, stated that it was not the same as the same community. The same can never be true, for the same-sex community will never be able to play a reproductive role. The relationship between a man and a woman is because one of its characteristics is the orientation towards the birth of a new life, it has special protection and the care of the state, not only with us, but also with us, and it comes from several articles of the Constitution, and in particular from Article 53, which states: "The State protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection." Many sociologists, including the contents of the curriculum, stress the irreplaceable importance of women and men during childhood. The results of the analyses that are not yet available to us, which have been done in America and other countries that you like to mention, show that people who express their same-sex orientation compared to other people have almost twice the amount of attempted murder, suicide, abuse-related problems, banned substances and psychological imbalances. I recently told only the statistics published on TV, which means that 95% of all new HIV patients last year are sexually oriented. We do not keep these records, and it is only right that we do not keep them, and only when a problem can arise when the disease spreads. And maybe there's something else about these same-sex relationships, and then I'll also tell you what I think or don't feel like that's why I'm intolerant of the same-sex relationship, and I voted for the Same-sex Partnerships Act myself. In 2005, we passed the law, he was quoted several times, and last June I asked the Minister what the data on same-sex relationships is. At that time, 24 same-sex partners were described, of which two ceased due to the death of the partner, and four by a decision of the administrative unit, meaning that they had broken up after less than four years of validity of the law, I suppose even after less than three or four years of such a relationship. Now my fellow Member asked the same question, and the ministry stated that 100 children live in such relationships, but also in the answer, of course, because this is written and officially written, they do not keep official records because there is no legal basis for keeping such records. It did, however, say that 30 same - sex partners were registered in January, but it did not tell us what happened to others, how many of them stopped and why. In the interest of the debate today, however, it would certainly be that we would have this data, which means that we will put the child in a family for which, according to the Slovenian statistics I just mentioned, we already know that six of them will stop in less than four years. Do you think this is a stable and orderly community in which you might be given children who have died in an accident and may face even worse problems after losing these surrogate parents, perhaps in a few years? I'm not saying that maybe the other 18 communities are settled and still last. I have no doubt that your partner or partner likes each other. I am also sure that many have no health problems, but I have listed only one Slovenian statistics, which you can read for yourself. The predecessors tell you who was all in the same sexual orientation, from well-known players, scientists, and that we are against the same-sex and therefore impatient, homophobic. You're asking us what we'd do if our children were in the same sexual orientation. That's not the problem at all. I have nothing against the same-sex people. Moreover, they wanted to make connections, register them, and so we adopted such a law, and I voted for it myself. Let each man live as he pleases until he restricts and endangers the other. But it's a shame we have to talk about inquisitions, witch hunts, piles and the like. We're not gonna put them on the piles. We haven't got any yet. They live between us and many of their rights are regulated in many laws, as are mine, because we are all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And even among my acquaintances there is someone who is equally sexual and is perfectly fine, we hang out, I have nothing against him, and we have no problems in our relationship. But the problem for us is in adoptions by same-sex partners. Why? Most of you have found that this is a sensitive area, but at the same time, we do not all allow ourselves to take so much time together to analyze what the law has brought and to make Slovenian statistics in this area. The family code is supposed to regulate children's rights. However, no one has the right to adopt a child, and at least the right of same-sex partners. Since adoption is a solution and assistance to a child who has lost his parents under different circumstances, the country is therefore looking for replacement parents. But every child has the right to life, to a father and to a mother. In many international documents and in our own, we have written down the rights of children and how we will protect these rights. With such a great deal of concern to proposers for adoption by same-sex partners, the proposaler does not solve many, more pressing issues - the problems of children living in different extended families, and children living with one of the parents and his or her marriage partner, children living in single-parent families, and children living with one of the relatives, aunts and old parents. Nothing will change for these children once the code is in force with regard to child care rights, kindergarten procedures, health insurance. And why can't old parents be the first in line to adopt a child - because experts then find that they're too old, but they're the first ones the child knows best. Why are the applicants not interested in the student family, which more than today are living children in the same-sex relationships that you refer to, while, as I have already said, admit that you do not have such data because you cannot and cannot keep such records. One of the predecessors said, let's move on with this story. It's a story for you, it's a lot more for us, so we're talking about this place. The ministry has silenced us with a lot of information that we would have the right to and could tell. For example, in 2006, France decided, after very thorough studies and a broad public debate, not to allow the adoption of children to same-sex partnerships because they found that this would not be in favour of children. And to regulate families in the family code and to regulate same - sex partnerships in other marriages. And for many other things, it would be right and relevant for the Ministry to write them down in an explanatory memorandum to the law, not just those that fit them. Any child, including your child’s or your child’s children, may be left without parents and may be in a position to need a foster family or adoptive family. The legislation now in force ensures that such a child will come into a regulated family based on marriage. The proposed code, however, offers the opportunity for our children to find themselves in different communities in which they may not want to be in them at all as parents. Whether we will now write in our wills, "if anything happens to me, I don't want my child to be adopted by two partners or two partners," and perhaps even if we wrote that, according to the code, this will would not be enforced. To the conclusion. The Slovenian demographic picture did not promise a bright future. This has changed in recent years, because our previous government, our former government, has sought to do so and has sought to ensure that our families are healthy, successful, that they will have genuine relations in it, that they will be respected among the members, that they will be able to reach out to the family where something is wrong and help them to settle matters. It was successful in doing so because it was for the benefit of the Slovenian family, for the benefit of the children who are the brightest promise for the future of Slovenia. That is why I think it is in the interest of all of us, especially you, to reconsider what you want to legislate and not vote that this law is suitable for further consideration. Too many of us are divided and too many citizens and citizens are opposed to convincing me that it is good for our common future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We fear nothing more than what we do not understand or know. Today's debate is about how much we understand and how much we know about love, which can be so diverse, that in fact none of us will ever fully understand it. Unfortunately, this lack can often mean rejection, especially if it is a different kind of love from the one we are experiencing ourselves. Therefore, I am not surprised, although there is no way that I can accept all this anger and fear of the proposal so that same-sex families can have the same rights as everyone else. It's not about hating them, it's about fear -- fear of misunderstanding something that's different. It is for this, for understanding, to accept the form of love that already exists and the only question that we are solving today is: How to make this love equal. What equality? In particular, it is the equality of children already living in same-sex families, but they do not have the right to be the same as all other children. They do not have the right to have two officially recognized parents, even though they do have them, because of the fear of love that we cannot understand and understand. I ask why this child who lives in the same - sex family should not have two officially recognized parents. Why is he the one who has to be different? It's not just a symbolic act. To this child, by giving him the opportunity to have two parents, we also provide him with greater security. Today, for example, if his officially recognized parent leaves or dies, he becomes an orphan who risks that instead of living with his other mother or other father, he will have to be a foster parent or someone who knows where. Is that right? No, it's not right! Unfortunately, we have heard quite a bit of hatred today, with which colleagues and colleagues express their fear. Of some, we even heard shameful hints that what would two gay parents do with a baby when they wash it in a bubble. Given that, as the human river says, only a pig thinks pig, I wonder if these colleagues speak and insult from their own experience and habits. My friend Jelinčič, who hangs this on a big bell, is supposed to like having girls, but he has two daughters. If we come from what he himself decides, what happens then in the house of Jelinčič when Dad and his daughters bathe. Most likely nothing special is happening, since our fellow Member, like all other fatherly love, has one. So why wouldn't this fatherly love be a gay or a lesbian? Today we have heard even more radical views. Even the saddest thought of the SDS is that homosexuality is supposed to be a disease. A sad and long-lived attitude that claims that same-sex people should be treated. For example, radical antigays, religious groups in the U.S. that claim that deviation needs to be settled. Same-sex is compared to a buckle, but they can't see it as a buckle, they can see it as a curved metal. But it's a buckle that can't be straightened out just like that, because it's fine, just like it is. And if we insist on straightening it out, this buckle breaks. Is that what we wanted? There is only one step missing from here to find that same-sex people cannot be healed and that they need to be eliminated. And that was, uh, colleagues and colleagues, the position, remember who? The very loud first scientist of the Nazi Reich of Joseph Mengele, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] different groups of people, including the same sexes, justified the need for treatment or, when not possible, destruction. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u109	Mr Luka Juri, yesterday, while leading a SDS Member, I warned him not to make some comparisons, which are theoretically possible, but which can also be misunderstood. Please do your best.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We also heard that God should not approve of same - sex relations. Regardless of the positive nature of homosexuality in many parts of the Bible. Anyone who doesn't believe in it should ask his priest. I'm only going to mention three stories from the Bible. The relationship between Ruth and Naomi, between David and Jonathan in Samuel’s book, or between Daniel and Ashkenaz in David’s book. Read them to yourself. They're teaching. But it may be better for children to live only in heterosexual families, since it is only the sexual orientation of parents, not the ability to love and to raise well. For example, in a story revealed in Germany by today’s newspapers when a heterosexual couple, a classic family that was supposed to be the best, raped its daughter from the age of six. The August 2008 story reads: "All three parents and six-year-old daughters, we were in the living room. My wife went into the kitchen to make snacks. I grabbed my daughter in the middle when my wife came back, and she kept on having oral sex. She recorded it. That night, he raped her so many times that he couldn't figure out how many times it was. Mother Jeanine never thought she'd report it to the police." Is this the ideal family that's the only right to raise a child? Are we today deciding whether Slovenia is ripe for an important step forward in social progress? In fact, we are deciding whether we are going to step in with those countries in the European Union that already recognise same-sex families and already recognise the same rights as everyone else. We can decide to join society with Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain, Norway and Sweden, where all families have equal rights. But we can also decide to stay in society of China, Iran, Afghanistan or Sudan, where this is not possible. The decision in which we belong is ours, colleagues and colleagues. Let's not be the one who's different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Potočnik? He won't discuss it. Mrs. Breda Bakan. Oh, I'm sorry. Minister Ivan Svetlik asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr Vice President. If I may, I would like to make some comments on those that have proved necessary during the course of the debate. More than once, the question has been asked: Who asks the child when he is assigned to adoption? The Family Code regulates this very precisely when it comes to a child who can think for himself is expressing his will, then he has a designated advocate of the rights of the child, who is also his mediator when it comes to decision-making, to be judged within the institutions set up for it, namely the Centre for Social Work and the Courts. Of course, there are many examples, common cases, when it comes to adoption of barely born children. And it is clear that they are not then asked about either solution. It is true, however, that a precise procedure and environmental assessment are envisaged, the situation in which such a child comes. It is a question of the stability of the marriage or family, of the economic situation, of the health situation, of the social situation and so on. A whole series of criteria that are already being followed today and will continue in the future. So this judgment, which is professional in this case, is also of the opinion of the court as the most authoritarian body in this case, and I think that the security of such decisions is fully ensured. The second issue raised is the ratio between the majority and the minority in deciding on these issues. Of course, the usual principle is that most people do not decide on a minority when it comes to recognised minorities; who they are, we find them in all international instruments, including the European Charter on Human Rights. When it comes to same-sex orientations, this group is also very explicitly mentioned. But it is also true, and I agree with this that a minority should not decide on the majority and on the majority opinion, because we know what order it would have been if it had happened. However, in the case of a family code, it is not a matter for most or traditional families to take anything away from them. This is not a question of anyone deciding on these rights, which, as was implicitly said, would be smaller. They're not smaller, they're bigger, given what the family code offers. Nor is it true that the question of the same sex would be brought into the family code through the side door. There was this question through the open door. We have made it very clear in all the introductions on our part that this is one of the issues that we are solving here, and there is no reason to hide them from anyone. I would also like to point out that when it comes to the situation of families, our ministry supports families, traditionals and others with a number of measures in order to facilitate their basic function. The issue of the abuses you have mentioned, because it is more worth living separately than getting married, is being addressed in laws that are now in public debate and will be very soon in Parliament. There is no reason not to listen to these criticisms because they are justified and will be regulated. We finance a number of family initiatives programmes run by civil society organisations and we think they are good, that they are needed, that they have an important function. I would like to mention here that our country, with its family policy, as previously said, is quite generous and well-supported by families and children, invests a lot in various transfers to the development of families and children, even more, I have to be critical here, often there is an argument, including by today's debaters, especially the opposition, that this support is too much, that people are not paid to work and then they point to another minority, say Roma, if you take all these transfers and then they do not work. Then you're very critical of transfers that go to families and children. I don't think it's fair to have the same vats for everyone. And how many of these same-sex relationships are registered. They have no particular motive to register. Clearly, this arrangement is far from encouraging. If it is stated that a quarter of them fell apart after four months, that is the average of the divorces of other laws. In fact, there is no derogation in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Today is actually about values. Politicians are always values, but few meetings are as long in this respect as they are today. I regret earlier the debate of a respected colleague from the SD, whom I have agreed with in the past many times, but today I regret not to be able to, because in his debate on why RTV Slovenia, if it wanted to respect the law, had to give the warning that the debate was no longer a suitable debate for minors, the most unwitting example of the fact that the sentence he himself mentioned was justified at the outset. I regret that this is the case, because today it comes first for children. For children who are our future and, in fact, our greatest fortune. It's not just a flossule. Children's rights and their benefits are what every society stands for and endures and is based on values. A child is, at least for me, a value. However, its benefits are a value in which, I firmly believe, under no circumstances is it permissible to interfere, even in the light of the Slovenian Constitution, which does not allow human rights restrictions. I would remind you of Article 15, in which any restriction of human rights, including an excuse to the Constitution itself, is unacceptable. And when we talk about children, it's about those who can't decide their own destiny, which is the most sensitive part of this society and also the most precious part of it. I am firmly convinced of this, and I am particularly convinced that it is extremely important for a child to exercise his or her fundamental right to have both a father and a mother. You can't take two dads away from your dad and mommy and you can't take two moms off your dad and mommy. I could see for myself how when my youngest daughter was born, and when I first went to work after taking advantage of the possibility of a shorter maternity leave, I also said goodbye to her, and I waved over her, a quarter of a meter high when she was lying in a basket, and I said, but now I have to go to work. You won't believe that such a child has collected so much energy that he jumped, grabbed me, pressed me, and began to be a cheerful beekeeper, so don't leave me. That's how much it means to a child, even if he's always clinging to his mother, having a father. And vice versa. It means the same thing to him or even more to have a mother. And here is the fundamental question of common human values, whether any country or any coalition has the legitimacy to take away the child's right to a mother and a father at institutional level by law, and to completely transform the fundamental concept of a family. For the family, this has been true all the time, even during the previous regime, which you know is that I cannot find a good word for myself, a family is a term that defines a father, a mother, and a child. So simple, so simple and so substantive and so valuable is this. Not only does no authority have legitimacy, even if it has been elected in democratic elections to take away this fundamental human right in advance. Moreover, those who have prepared this proposal and are defending it today have overlooked that it is also in obvious, insurmountable, permanent contradiction to the international acts which our country has ratified long ago, which are therefore bound by them and which can be used even directly by the stop itself. Certainly, however, it is already considered a priority of legal acts that they should also be invoked and taken into account in the drafting of laws. What exactly is this about? You're not gonna believe this. The General Declaration on Human Rights, adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948, which is considered to be an indisputable foundation of the entire system of human rights throughout the democratic world, also defines the concept of family, specifically in article 16: "Men and women of all ages without any restrictions on race, nationality or religion shall have the right to enter into a marriage and to establish a family." And then it goes on to point three: "The family is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to social state protection." If this declaration were the basis for what you are advocating today, then it would be either a full-year-old man or a woman's right to establish a family for all those who are familiar with the law. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is cumulative in law, even in international law, which binds Slovenia, so it is indisputable and clear that the bill proposed by you in the National Assembly is fundamentally and clearly contrary to the declaration of human rights of the United Nations. And ladies and gentlemen, after this basic declaration, the child has the right to live in the family and to be a community of men and women. This is family, ladies and gentlemen. This is not just a definition of faith, but Europe is established on Christian values. For all those who have forgotten, a united Europe has been built on Christian values. But that's what the basic declaration of human rights of the United Nations says. And today you have come before the National Assembly with a bill that is clearly in conflict with this declaration. Therefore, it is suggested that such a law is suitable for further consideration in ridicule of the fundamental declaration of human rights of the United Nations. And the only way to end this tragedy, through the reversal and destruction of values that constitute the foundation of any society, is to reject this law today and to prepare a different law that will be appropriate and which will be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and international acts, and to add as essential, with the fundamental human values that we are all bound by.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Good day to everyone who's still on the balcony. I would like to say that, as I listen to the debate today, I must say that I am, above all, very sad. It is sad because I no longer feel that I am in the country, that I live in the country, that I am a citizen of a country in which we do not despise or humiliate people who are different from us, but who live in our own way. The Family Code has as many as 303 articles governing extremely important areas of marriage, the non-marital community, the parent-child relationship, the assistance of the State to the problems of partner and family life, and the survival, adoption, foster care and care of children and other persons in need of special protection. Today, we are listening to the debates of those - and we have been receiving e-mails for a number of days, which have reduced the code only and only to the legalisation of the marriage of same-sex partners and their possibilities for adoption of children. The fact that the code prohibits the corporal punishment of a child is a novelty that we should really devote to it all our attention. In the previous term, for example, we heard a statement by a high-ranking official in the National Assembly that it's okay if you bring a child "a child with a upbringing". Today, let's say we listened to a Member who, years ago in public, beat his almost grown-up daughter, how wrong it is, because through this code, we supposedly criminalize a father and a mother if the children are to "slap" their ass or give him an earring. That's how he became a criminal now. In his opinion and in his view, the largest opposition party, whose position was presented by the former President of the National Assembly, is more important than protecting children from physical and other domestic violence to protect them from the possibility of living in a family with two fathers or two mothers. All day long we have been listening to a very horrifying, middle-aged claim about the disease nature of same-sex orientation, the need for treatment, psychiatric - I stress - the treatment of same-sex-oriented, the claims of deviant inclined partners in same-sex partnerships that have no serious basis. Lies about research carried out over the decades, both in the United States, Germany, Sweden and more. For example, one of the most receptive metries in the area of same - sex families, a study by American sociologists Judith Stacey and Timothy J. Biblaz in 21 studies conducted between 1981 and 1998. They found that most researchers in their studies pointed out that children from same-sex families are not psychological, not behavioural, not sexual, not heterogeneous. Research shows no statistically significant differences in the identification of sexual identity. So the same-sex families don't reproduce any more gays and lesbians than the straight family. On the basis of a meta-analysis of 21 studies, in 2010, it was published this year, concluded that gender is a trivial, indecisive factor that does not affect the quality of the parental role. In general, researchers say that two parents are better than one parent, regardless of gender, but this does not mean that one parent cannot provide what he needs to grow up and develop. This means that neither sex nor the number of parents is a determining factor, but the quality of parenting. Biblaz and Stacey round their analysis with the conclusion that ideal parenting can occur in different forms and genders. The "Children of Lesbian and Gay Parents" survey by Norman Andersen and co-workers showed that children of gays and lesbians from children of heterosexuals do not differ in the emotional and cognitive functioning of sexual preferences, sexual roles, identity acquisition and so on. However, authors warn, like Stacey and Biblaz, that nine studies dealing with stigmatization have shown that children from same-sex families in general are not stigmatized, but there is a tendency to be more exposed to exclusion, such as ridicule, than children from heterosexual parents. So the problem is not on the side of children and single - sex families, but on the side of homophobic society. On the side of a homophobic society! I regret to note that Slovenians and Slovenes appear to be part of a group of homophobic societies. Looking at how we have recently been Members and Members under pressure from homophobic messages. If true, if this society is truly honest that it is the best interests of its children, then it will start working on itself and eliminating its homophobia. If we know to read a message of such research, we can understand that all citizens of Slovenia tell us that when we adopt the Family Code, we are given the opportunity to finally cross a line between respect for different sexual orientations and to join countries that do not accept homophobia as values, but consider it to be a rejection of conduct and feelings. And one last message. I have agreed with my colleague Luke Yuri that we will translate and send him to the Council of Europe and to the European Parliament, where at both ends a series of resolutions, conventions and all the like have been adopted, which denies the claims we have heard today, let us say that the Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention prohibits the adoption of children by same-sex spouses. This is not true and such claims in this National Assembly, in such a high body of this country, but with the very repeated belief that it is forbidden to lie, it is particularly forbidden to lie here, so I think it is right that we should renounce lying when we speak here. It is not true that the European Union Convention prohibits adoption of children. Because the European Union has not so far taken this right and probably never will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Today's topic or debate is actually a debate on what the values of the current authorities are. And what lobby controls it in the creation of values? For to speak of the fact that the provisions of these two contentious articles are primarily for the benefit of children, is not true. That's not true. Do we have to ask ourselves, or do we have to ask you, coalition, are the goal of happy children, or are the goal satisfied and satisfied by homosexual communities? We agreed, we introduced the rights of homosexual communities, even our government did it, your government was not capable, but here we have to ask ourselves how such children will get accidental decomposition when they grow up in school. Today, there have been many debates about children’s feelings, even without parental experience. Even with parental experience it is extremely difficult to tell how children feel, what affects them, but I assure you that such a child will feel stigmatized at some point and will affect his feelings and his later actions. I wonder what lobbying has put pressure on the government and on the coalition when this law was written, such solutions. The fact is that this government, which everyone guarantees, also on your part some homosexual lobby has a remarkable influence that it is the most powerful in this country with the current government. That's a fact. And I wonder if they wrote it back from the background of some associations, "yes" and so on. And I'll tell you, we have to say yes to these solutions. "net." "No," that's not a good solution. In doing so, you must respect that the majority of people’s thinking is in favor of the existence of the nation and all that. You cannot offer here the Bible’s sayings to those who have never seen churches within or for a long time. Today, you operate on old - fashioned and Bible - based sayings, and not well - meaningly, there is a lot of hypocrisy. These are such serious questions that we should take them seriously. Do not succumb to today when we witness some decadent practices for which no one in this country wants to assume political responsibility to insist in such a serious situation on what cannot be acceptable to the majority of the Slovenian population. But there's no intolerance here. We're all for homosexuals, too. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u120	Respected and respected! What is it that guarantees the healthy development of our children? In the first place, we must cultivate them in a loving environment that will make individuals and individuals courageous, honest, and righteous citizens. In doing so, I agree with the fact that the family around the community is the fundamental unit that must ensure such development of our people. As many debaters have demonstrated before me, it is essential that this family is as loving as it is that this community views children as no doubt our greatest wealth as a whole and that it sets its example, its knowledge, and, above all, its love on the way to life. We have also heard many cases today about what can happen in so-called so-called families, and I point out the indications of "normal" families, heterosexual families. What happens in such families, unfortunately in many of them, when we talk about violence, alcoholism, alienation and terrorism. Is this the healthy environment we want to guarantee our youngest? Almost not. And in this respect, I think that the core of this debate is actually the question of how narrow or broad we understand normality, because in many of the letters we have received from Members and Members in recent days, the reference to this sacred normality is a key element, and I do not wish to deny any of the writers or those letters the legitimacy of their democratic will, and it is true that they have given it to us as elected representatives of the people. However, it is important to note that I see this normality differently, because in this society, this wave of hatred that eats Slovenia and generated by the biggest opposition party is not normal and we can apply it to practically all the social, political and social phenomena that we are witnessing in Slovenia today and have only a political goal. You say there's a difference in the values on which we build in this government coalition. Above all, and in this I firmly believe, it is necessary to enable everyone to live their lives full and happy. In my opinion, the guarantee of this happiness is freedom and the possibility of co-existence in an orderly, patient and compassionate community that will build on the potentials of an individual and can promote and at the same time provide assistance when a person is in distress. Surely this is one of those questions where we will never come together and where a decision has to be made. This decision is courageous and does not mean that in any of our aspects either of us thinks that the arguments of the opposite side hold up. I think it is necessary to have the courage to take this decision, which will place Slovenia among the open and democratic peoples of Europe and the world. Also because some writers have discovered that a dangerous liberal wave is coming to us. I wish that this would be one new wind that would give this community, which is difficult to accept differently, is difficult to accept what is unknown and foreign as some new value that can strengthen our common coexistence, give it one new dynamic, a new dimension, to live in a better community, in a community that will not be so marked by hostility, but to a greater extent by love and mutual understanding. That is why I do not have a hint of bad news that I am participating in this courageous decision today, and in this decision, we do not in any way endanger the traditional Slovenian family, but we also place a democratic institution on its side, and in this regard also a traditional Slovenian family; on which you refer where we all grew up; we strengthen and give new meaning to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Laszlo Gönch has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate, as well as the events of the past days, shows that the family code that meets the challenges of the 21st century is not easy to accept, but it is undoubtedly a need that must also be met in the Republic of Slovenia. In opening, I would like to point out that the proposed text of the law for me in many ways constitutes an extremely good basis for the adoption of this law, so in many ways this law has undoubtedly exceeded its level of quality. Of course, there are also certain dilemmas that undoubtedly remain, and this raises a fundamental question, what can be the criteria of fairness in deciding on the most important issues, including within the proposed law. I guess it can't just be that political, in saying, "dialogue" that has evolved on some ideological or other basis, but it should be some more valuable professional basis. But, of course, it's hard, I know. We will probably never get a clear position in this area, just subjective opinions from both the professional and lay public and political factors. In this case, there is a discrepancy between one of the basic issues, namely the equalization of the same-sex partners with the traditional family and the adoption of children in that community or in those forms. And this is undoubtedly a problem that raises some great doubts about the appropriateness of solving this issue in the way envisaged in this legal text. But, as I said before, there is no doubt that positive things need to be pointed out. The star angle, which puts the child’s interests at the forefront and the interest of any child to live in any kind of family formation, is in itself easy, not easy, but in its own way an extremely important aspect, which, in many ways, holds back criticism probably also of different thinking. At least this raises the issue in my mind mainly from the perspective of the creation of a future value system, with this issue from the perspective of the family undoubtedly important, since the family, I hope, will be an important factor in the creation of the society's value system in the future. Well, that's my dilemma, and I've pointed that out a lot. In the context of this, however, it is also worth noting that there is an important segment, a positive segment, where the child's right or the child's benefit is placed at the forefront and I have not seen any major differences. It is also acceptable that a biologically conditioned difference cannot constitute any legal or other discrimination. In short, I would like to make it clear that it is not disputed to me that the provision of all rights or rights, including adoption of children, must be guaranteed in the case of same-sex partners as in all other cases. In particular, as a representative of another minority community, i.e. on the basis of other criteria for the treatment of the minority community, I agree even more with the claim that the high level of the provision of rights to minorities or specific social groups cannot in any way endanger anyone but at least the majority community. The legal equality of all rights or substantive rights of same-sex groups, including adoption of a child, is therefore not disputed for me. To conclude, however, as I have already pointed out, the question is, above all, what will be the consequences of formal alignment and the creation of a value system, the future value system from the point of view of the family institute. And I have not yet received a convincing answer to this question. I would therefore expect further efforts to seek a more appropriate or more acceptable legal solution to the definition of the institution of same-sex sex, in particular in the context of the formal alignment of same-sex partners with traditional families. And for the third time, I stress that this is not in terms of reducing or restricting rights. I therefore believe that this issue is very important and perhaps there are still some reserves left in the context of the drafting of this code. This kind of thinking is shared with me by many, perhaps not all, or undoubtedly not all, and is not ideologically oriented, nor is it politically oriented thinking and thinking. I therefore hope that the drafter of the law will show a certain thought and understanding in this direction as well, in order to correct the text of the law in particular from the point of view that I have mentioned. As a result of this dilemma, I must point out in the end that I am most likely to abstain in today's vote, which in no way constitutes a complete opposition to the bill's proposal, merely a dilemma in relation to the issue that I have raised. In my opinion, there are still plenty of spare options for finding solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have made it clear in the presentation that we are particularly opposed to Article 3 which allows the adoption of children by the same-sex partners. Today it was also said that today the maturity of the state of Slovenia will be demonstrated. Of course, I understood this in the direction that this law would be adopted. But I would leave the matter open. Maturity can also be shown if it is not accepted. I certainly do not have a problem with the fact that this partnership community cannot live in a completely normal form, like all others. In this article alone, I have great concerns. I am proud of the state of Slovenia from this point of view, because if we remember the old times, even the former Yugoslavia, we have certainly been the most advanced in this respect. And during that time, a great development took place, and much has changed for the better since then. Why are we so insistent today that the law goes with this article? I expect and know that we would be able to carry out all things as necessary without this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. A representative of the Government also took the floor, but I would like to give the floor first to Dr. Andrei Črnak Meglič and then to the Government. Do we agree with that? The Minister and the Secretary of State agree. Here you go, Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Hello again! Allow me to begin with a statement by the Presidency of the Slovenian Sociology Society, which I also belong to and has been defined under the Family Code. Given that the Slovenian Sociological Society counts more than 200 members, like opponents of the proposed Family Code, they could replicate this statement and throw away your e-mails, but they did not. So let me tell you what is the basic message of the Sociological Society, which is committed to its profession, science, which is committed to interpreting the professional, scientific results correctly, not misleading, torn out of context, on small samples, misleading and shameful for science: "In the Slovenian Sociology Society, with a statement, we reiterate that the proposal for a new Family Code introduces a broader inclusive definition of family, which itself has been regulating the existing practice of everyday life for a long time. This type of inclusive definition is accepted by the sociological profession, since there is a basic premise of the family, the parental relationship between the child and the adult caring for the child. Studies show that it does not matter whether the parental relationship with the child is biological or social, but it is an important caring relationship. That sex and the number of parents do not play a key role in ensuring the child’s well-being, however, it is particularly important that children from same-sex families are not both psychologically and sexually or in any other important sense different from children growing up with heterosexual parents. That same - sex parents are also successful in raising children as heterosexuals and that more than gender and sexual orientation of parents influence the content or quality of family relationships. The Slovenian Sociological Society believes that the proposal for a new Family Code introduces innovations that are in line with the expertise of the sociological profession and will continue to strive for an appropriate level of expertise and a dominant power of argument in the public debate on this topic." As I started my introductory debate, I would also like to point out this time that I am pleased that today we have faced so many arguments and arguments. Unfortunately, however, I have to conclude once again that the power of counter-arguments did not restate on professional arguments, but was based on opinions, beliefs, beliefs and prejudices. As they taught me during my studies, it's the most difficult thing to change prejudices. The existing family code is based on three key starting points. First of all, on the consistent implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that children benefit from the Convention. It literally translates all 303 articles of this spirit of the Convention, and I am proud that Slovenia has so successfully incorporated this message into the basic law or code governing family relations and ultimately also regulates the welfare of children. The second stage is related to the recognition of life practices. As has already been seen from the opening contribution, in fact in Slovenia the families you are most talking about and the representatives of whom you are speaking, I am also a representative of such a family, represent only half of the Slovenian families. In Slovenia there are other forms of families with this family, which are also extended families, which are also reorganised families, which are also foster families, which are also foster families, and which are also families of same-sex partners. This family code merely and simply includes and acknowledges this fact that has brought us life. The third starting point is to take account of the Constitution, Article 14, of the Constitution, which expressly and expressly provides that no distinction shall be made on the basis of any personal circumstances. If I end up with what's best about ghosts. Let's try to demystify what we're worried about. We're talking about adoptions. To the greatest extent, we would talk about the adoption of children who already exist in same-sex families. How'd you get the information? This information has been communicated to us by the same-sex partners' associations, because no one in this homophobic society is meant to "run out" and kick in the chest, and I am such a family. The fact is, children in these families have five rights and their social parents have eight rights. I already asked you in the introduction, on behalf of someone or something, and that even opponents of this solution have problems, it was from statements or encounters with some of their representatives, say Mr Primec. Yeah, well, we don't deny these rights, but this has to be arranged differently. I'm asking you nicely, where, in any other document?Oh, my God! In itself, it means discrimination and recognition of unequal treatment of all types of families. I'm asking you again why and on behalf of someone. These children and their social parents, because they are cared for as well as we care for our children, do not recognize these rights. The second story is, of course, related to the possibility of adopting a foreign child. Let us see what this right actually means. This right means just a ticket to line up with 375 waiting couples waiting for 30 children. Just like that. The assessment of who the child will be allocated depends on the professional judgement, on the very difficult process of verifying the conditions under which the child will live, on the obligation of all professional services to protect the maximum benefit of the child. First the Social Work Center, then the Court. And please, in this homophobic society, what do you say, how many of these fun parties are going to be put in a row of 375 waiting couples? Who's gonna go through all the bullying and assaults we're hearing today? This is a right that we are also regulating for the future. In the past, our children who were born into extramarital communities or single mothers were considered pancreatic. The company rejected them. In my own family, I have a story where my family dumped their daughter, a pregnant daughter, in high pregnancy and dumped her in the middle of winter on the road. In my family, she was shown mercy and became part of the family and allowed her and her child to develop normally. Her parents and her relatives were looking away. But life has gone beyond that and the homophobic feelings we face today will also be overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Secretary of State, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Then I'll leave the Minister's word to the end. Thank you for your word, again. Before the conclusion of the debate, I would like to move the discussion a little bit from the discussion on the three articles of this family code and point it to what this family code brings, which has also been mentioned and also supported by the majority of the National Assembly. This matter, which we are discussing today and which you will only decide whether it is suitable for further discussion, has actually presented the family constitution, if we say so, and all family relations and family rights are governed in one place, which is the first time in our country. There are several reasons why this proposal has been made. The first is practice in the courts themselves, practice at social work centres. In the last 30 years, whether we like it or not has a lot going on, so legislation must also fit and respond to this different position and different developments within the family. Court decisions are also important and, above all, in the final stage of the Constitutional Court's decision, which, whether we are talking about similarity, equality or not at different points of explanation, is a very important point for us, and this is a point in which there is no doubt that sexual orientation is one of the personal circumstances under which discrimination is not possible. And on the basis of respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is the highest legislative and legal body in this country, we are also trying to implement their decision in this law. No matter what was the key reason for this proposal of the law, this is, in particular, a changed social reality. If we are also talking here about the Convention on Human Rights, it was mentioned earlier, adopted in 1948, and also others, and in particular the Council of Europe has adopted a number of instruments in this area, conventions setting out human cultural, social rights, which have also been revised later on in terms of the development of human rights. Even today, the House has repeatedly stressed that the concept of human rights is not static, changing over time. And this bill represents a development of the view on human rights, and we are of the view that the rights of someone, because they are sexually oriented, are not discriminated against in the majority of our society or in general in the world. In addition to these same - sex families that we are talking about today, it is also right to say about other families that we deny by law the right to that title. Today, we are talking about this provision of the law very much, and the provision itself does not bring about any right. The definition of a family is merely a principled definition. And when we talk about principle, it's probably hard to say, and it's hard to put ourselves in the position that not all families and all children, no matter what family they live in, are in the same position. And here legislation cannot define ideal situations, but it must follow social development. We can, with other legislation, take measures, what we are doing and continue what you started in the previous term. And not only the story of the previous mandate, but also of the previous governments, that we are trying to encourage through family policy measures that as many children as possible be born in our country to ensure optimal development for them. But this is the second field, and here we are talking about the recognition of the fundamental human rights of all, especially children, because the key guide of the family code is the child. More than once today, it has been pointed out that today children living in these families, if they avoid numbers, live in these families and do not have fundamental social rights: the right to inheritance, the right to a pension, the right to contact are fundamental social rights and it is in the interests of children, not of the same sex, in the rights of those children whose interests we must protect. There's no question here, like it used to be, whether we like it or not. These kids are here. The decision on the adoption case in America is here today, the Supreme Court has rejected it as unfounded, so entry is allowed and a foreign decision is recognised. What are we gonna do with this kid today? The Supreme Court has decided that the recognition of this foreign decision is in accordance with the current order of the Republic of Slovenia and, in particular, in accordance with the European acquis, where the practice is towards the recognition of fundamental human rights and not exclusion in all the most open democratic societies. The definition family puts the child at the forefront. And these children live in different relationships. It's ideal that you live in a family where your father and mother are. But not the father and mother of the feather, but the good father and mother, who devote a lot of care to those who know and can take care of this child. It's not just that we're mothers or that we're fathers. We need to make sure that we are good mothers and fathers, then we fulfill our parental care. Therefore, in the family code there is also a change from a parental right to parental care. It is because we have not given birth to our children so that they are our property, and we do not have parental authority over them, but above all we have parental care. In the elements where parents are unable, unable or unwilling to do so in the way that they are in favour of the child, then this family code defines a number of measures, both temporary and permanent, on how professional institutions must decide in these cases. And here is another very important contribution to this family code. It clearly identifies what a person decides and who makes the final decision. And here we have reached a fundamental shift in agreement with the Ministry of Justice. The fact that we have agreed on the transfer of the fundamental rights of the worst interventions to the family to be decided by the courts, not more centres for social work, and at the same time the Family Code has drawn up a proposal for procedural law that will allow for family disputes and where children actually suffer the most in these proceedings to be decided quickly for the benefit of the child. The benefit of the child is a complex concept, and in fact we cannot simply put this benefit as a letter on paper that it has the right to the father and the mother. And it is the professional institutions that have to judge what is in the best interest of the child in procedures, adoptions. And that's what they do. And also in this code there is a very special article where we wanted to make this clear that the issue of adoption of children must always be decided for the benefit of the child. There is no doubt here, only perhaps in the heads of someone, that it is the interest of elite individual societies and that they led us in this. I can ensure this from this table that the drafting of this law is simply about ensuring equal rights for all citizens and protecting the interests of the child in general. Practices, such as the Spanish Prime Minister, where the Catholic environment, where values are often highlighted, opened similar debates in 2005 when their family code was adopted, as is the case today in the National Assembly and even earlier in the proposal itself, and it will. The law in Spain has been adopted, reports from Spain today show that nothing has changed significantly. And that's the part where we talk about values in families to whom we take something. I believe that my family will remain the same family and my values will be unchanged if I can recognize this right to the same-sex family where the children live. My family won't be any less, I won't be single and I won't change my mind and register or marry another woman. Because we've already made this clear in the beginning that these are things that are biologically given and not a matter of social context. All these concerns are superfluous and this is just a threat, a notion of the threat of a majority society that is not justified in anything. Even today, regardless of this definition of the previous or still valid law on marriage and family relations, even though the definition is very clear, many things have happened to us. So this very point in the article in the marriage is not going to make any difference in what is going to happen to us in society. Here we are just trying to accept what is happening in society and regulate from the point of view of the rights that all citizens have the same rights, whether they are children or adults. And that is the key purpose of this family code. As for the family as such, the constitutional element is always and always will be. We all agree on that. The question is, how do we see this family? I see a personal family where there is a loving relationship, caring, security, and where children can develop. For me, it's not just that they're dads and moms. And I imagine that a divorce can happen and maybe I'll stay single anyway, and it can happen to my husband or me, and we'll still be the same family with my kids, no matter what this article of the law is, what we'll say, what we think about it, and what we'll accept. There is another question if we are in the field of questions directly. Right here we wouldn't open because we're far from being able to talk about what's natural and what's not natural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u129	I'm asking for peace and order in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u130	Above all, it is not in the country to set these standards and, above all, to deviant things, because it is unacceptable that at any point we compare homosexuality, same sexual orientation, with any deviant and even our legislation criminal acts. And paedophilia is not to be forgotten, the crime committed by an adult over a minor, with a very clear definition and with nothing and must never be linked to it, because these acts can be committed by different people with different sexual orientations, is not exclusively. It is really important here that we set up and agree on the fact that family is a value, but that we recognize the possibility of different types of family appearing in society at different social times, but that we give them the same rights and not discriminate against them at some ideal that was once or maybe is present and would even want it, but it is only possible to ideal. It can even stay ideal, it's no problem, but we can't close our eyes in front of other families and say they don't exist. We cannot tell these children that they should go and report citizenship to somewhere else. Today they are here and at the National Assembly it is to provide them with all the rights they belong to them, regardless of the type of family they live in.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. He also asked Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I would like only two more comments, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, it was said which lobby is behind this bill. Maybe it's today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u133	Please peace in the hall Please, Mr Jerovšek, peace [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u134	It's hard to imagine anyone showing up with a proposal in the National Assembly without the lobbying behind it. [[...]] Our only lobby here is the profession that we belong to and refer to. We have presented many references on the basis of which these judgements have taken place. Of course, all the rest of the lobby can think in their own way. However, I must say that there were no direct influences, perhaps indirect ones that we have not seen, but this is a matter of autonomous judgment and discussion that we have led to many when we formulated this proposal. What I would like to say for the end is that today's debate on this code was very symbolic, and it ran more on a symbolic level than on a concrete one. There has been a lot of talk about the values that we live and that we can also make in part with legislation. Values such as family, freedom, security were mentioned. And if you go to look at empirical research, you'll find that really these values are always set high, sometimes a little change in order, add some others, but these are key, you're right. But if you read a family code, such as it is in its entirety, you will see that it also exposes the family as a value, but a family in all its present forms, not just one form - a family in the forms in which Slovenians live today. In doing so, the decision for such a solution, for such families, can be made and must be taken at the second value - freedom. With the freedom of individual decision to choose a form of life. If we shut down this possibility, then freedom is gone. Then we took half of this population, as was said today. And third, we're talking about the child's safety and benefit. The entire family code places this in the heart, in the center of attention, and all the institutions envisaged here are designed to do so. And that's the answer to the third value we call security. I believe that by adopting and adopting this code we will test our openness, the openness of this society. You used to tell her, a few years ago, relaxation or something. But in fact, we are open to differentness and that we know how to accept this and live tolerantly, together, despite the differences that we owe to the citizens of this country in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate - I think it is 12 minutes - has not yet expired, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. We have 12 minutes and 21 debaters at our disposal. I find that these 12 minutes per 21 debaters cannot actually be divided if we want to have a meaningful time. [[The ad in the hall.]] Excuse me? It's possible to share, but my respectable colleague Anderlich, for everyone, it would be less than a minute. So it's pointless and unnecessary. That is why I suggest you, if you agree, that this concludes the debate. Do we agree? I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda or at the latest at 23.35. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On behalf of the President of the Republic for violations of the Constitution and serious violations of the law. The motion for an indictment was submitted by a group of 33 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this item on the agenda, Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, submitted additional material today in the afternoon. This is a material which, by its content, represents additional evidence in the proceedings of the President of the Republic's indictment. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 180 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic shall have at least 30 days for an oral or written reply to the meeting of the National Assembly. It is therefore the President's right or to provide the time it takes to prepare a response to the charge. However, since this material is not entirely, but partly, a new evidence proposal in the indictment procedure, for which the President of the Republic has not been given the opportunity to respond within the time limit of business, I inform you that this material cannot be considered as an additional material to the agenda item under consideration, nor can it be subject to consideration under this item on the agenda. You will not receive this material from the Members and Members of the Chamber, but will be distributed in your offices like any other material. I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Janez Janša, for further explanation of the motion for an indictment. Please, Mr. Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! On 30 November last year, the Slovenian Press Agency was informed that the President of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk, had decorated the former Head of Udba or the National Security Service, Tomaž Ertla, with a silver order for the merits. On 27 November 2009, the order granting a medal to Mr Ertl was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No 96-2009. That wasn't the first such recognition for Ertle. From the Presidency of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, in order to play a role in the repression of democratic and independent aspirations in Slovenia, he already received from the hands of Dr. Janez Stanovnik the high republical medal of the Red Republic with a silver wreath on 10 May 1989. Today, a similar medal is called the Red Republic with a silver order, and this medal was awarded to Mr Ertle by Dr. Türk in last November. According to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Municipality was officially appointed State Security Service, a criminal association. In Judgement No. 187/98 of 23. 5. 2002, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia wrote: "Today it is known that this service has dealt not only with intelligence tasks, but also organised various criminal activities itself, challenged them deliberately and constructed the existence and responsibility of crimes. To this end, it has also falsified, fabricated or suppressed burdensome evidence. Victims of such activities, usually political opponents or otherwise-thinking, did not generally have the opportunity to disclose the structures of the Resurrection and Rehabilitation during the period of the regime." End of quote. It is well known from many documents that the Uda followed, listened to and spied on its own citizens on behalf of ideological legitimacy and ovated, imprisoned, tortured and also killed them. However, it was also a well-organised economic criminal association associated with international criminal associations that smuggled cigarettes, alcohol and drugs, established bank washes, trained foreign terrorists of all colours and beliefs for money. She was an organization that hid international criminals from Interpol. This is evident from books, memories and published documents and, as such, has also been recorded in the memory of European humanist history, which has been highlighted in a joint statement by a number of distinguished academics and constitutional law experts. On taking office in this Chamber, the President of the State, Dr. Danilo Türk, took the oath laid down in Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and reads: "I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia." An integral part of the constitutional order has been laid down in a broader sense by the Constitution and constitutional laws, as well as by the content of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The basis of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia is consistent respect for human rights. This comes from the Basic Constitutional Charter and the preamble and introductory part of the Constitution of Slovenia. The area of protection of human rights and freedoms is regulated in Chapter 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not accidental, since the founder wanted to establish a consistent respect for human rights as the starting point and foundation of the entire constitutional order and constitutional order. This was particularly stressed by the inclusion of Article 15 of the Constitution, which does not allow any restriction of fundamental human rights and freedoms outside the constitutional framework, nor by reserving to the Constitution itself. The consistent respect for the protection of human rights and freedoms at constitutional level requires unconditional, pre-eminent and value-added rejection of everything that constitutes a violation of human rights and freedoms, both at a concrete and symbolic level. And it is precisely in establishing confidence in the institution of the State and constitutional order that the symbolic level is often at least as important as concrete. However, despite the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, with high state design, awarded the former Chief of Police Tomaž Ertl. The winner is a person who is proven to be responsible for international terrorist activities that have endangered innocent human lives, responsible for the mass violations of human rights and fundamental political freedoms that are protected today by the second chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for treason, because it has not provided the competent authorities with the information obtained on the disarmament of territorial defence, which is responsible for the destruction of a large part of the Slovenian cultural and national heritage in the form of archival records, and thus, by making it difficult or impossible to correct thousands of individuals who have been persecuted and violated their rights. The award was awarded to the person responsible for jeopardising the processes of democratisation and independence, by imposing repressive measures against its carriers and by calling on representatives of the Yugoslav repressive authorities to take action to suppress the emerging democratic processes. The President of the Republic directly violated Article 34 of the Constitution by honoring the head of the criminal association, and indirectly most of the articles of the second chapter on the protection of human rights and fundamental political freedoms. Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: "Everyone has the right to personal dignity and security." The President of the Republic directly violated the constitutional right to personal dignity of all victims of this repressive institution, both alive and dead, by conferring on the chief of the former political police. The right to personal dignity and security is guaranteed to everyone. Speciality in the protection of human dignity is that it concerns both the dignity of the living and the dignity of the already deceased. According to the 1998 Constitutional Court’s position, the provisions protecting human dignity, personal rights, privacy and security have a special place between human rights and fundamental freedoms and prohibit all, as well as individuals, from interfering with those rights. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia today there are thousands of our fellow citizens, who have been severely violated by the Uda. Many are still fighting for the recognition of the status of the victim of repression, many of whom are having major difficulties in proving violations because, during the reign of Mr Ertl, this same Austenance destroyed their personal files. In 2009, Dr Danilo Türk awarded a state award to the head of this organisation, who is directly responsible for these acts. The act of the President of the Republic directly violated their constitutional right to personal dignity as provided by Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To date, more than tens of thousands of our relatives and fellow citizens have died in Slovenia, who have been harassed and violated their human rights without having any satisfaction or at least an attempt to redress their injustices. Instead, the actions of the President of the Republic, who decorated the head of the organization, who is directly responsible for their suffering and for the suffering of the dead, have been experienced by tens of thousands of their relatives. The President of the Republic directly violated their constitutional right to personal dignity, as provided by Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by conferring on the head of their teachers. He also violated the constitutional right to the personal dignity of the dead, which is also protected by this same article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is not an indirect matter, but a direct violation of the Constitution. This infringement was, in particular, caused by the mere granting of a disputed continuation. A more detailed indication of the judgments of the Constitutional Court on this subject is provided in the material. We also see this violation of the right to personal dignity of yesterday's boycott of members of the government coalition who did not attend the Commission's meeting on petitions, where some of the victims of the Judgment spoke about their personal experiences and experiences of their neighbors, and which was shocking. Ignorance is near this violation of the constitutional right to personal dignity. Of course, the President of the Republic has indirectly violated several other articles of the Constitution because the award or award of a person who is subjectively and objectively directly responsible or responsible for systematic human rights violations undermines trust in the rule of law and equality before the law. Slovenia has ratified the Declaration on Human Rights and many other international human rights instruments, as well as the Treaty of Lisbon. The deprivation of citizenship to the disgruntled part of the population, which was practiced by the Uda has violated Article 15 of the General Declaration on Human Rights. The award of a medal to the former head of the secret police is clearly contrary to ratified international human rights instruments, which are directly applicable in Slovenia under the Constitution. The award is also clearly contrary to the resolutions of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, the condemnation and dismantling of the totalitarian communist regime and its institutions, among which the most controversial was the secret political police. The Slovenian Constitution says that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms and that we are all equal before the law. The operation of the Resurrection has placed people in an unequal position before the law. Because of political or religious beliefs, people were persecuted, imprisoned, tortured, and threatened their health and their lives, both at home and abroad. The award of honor to her former boss means the legitimacy and even the symbolic reward of these crimes. The Constitution says that human life is untouchable. There is no death penalty in Slovenia. The mob killed people at home and abroad. She planned and carried out terrorist attacks abroad, planted bombs in public places, like museums, and endangered innocent lives. It was also a repressive tool of the regime, which protected its totalitarian nature and authority by means of a threatened death penalty against political competition. The Constitution states that no one should be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading punishment or conduct. The rebellion tortured and severely humiliated people and purposefully trampled on their human dignity. By blackmail, she recruited co-workers, locked the trustees in psychiatric institutions, and forced treatment. Many examples of such behavior are described in the book The Dark Side of the Month, published by the New magazine in Ljubljana in 1998. The Constitution says everyone has the right to personal freedom. The rebellion kept people locked up, supervised, held them illegally, and restrained them, bugged them, and followed them. She handed over the arrested citizens to the JLA military courts, where they were tried in secret trials in a foreign language, without the possibility of free choice of counsel. In addition to the quadruple process in 1988, worse cases of human rights abuses are known. In 1984, the Ljubljana Military Court sentenced eight Slovenian citizens - civilians to a secret trial on long-term prison terms. The military court was handed over to the civilians by Ert's Uba. Most of the convicts returned from prison as disabled persons, two of whom died shortly after being released from prison. Families have been destroyed, some of the victims are still engaged in unfinished rehabilitation procedures, while those responsible for their suffering are receiving high pensions, and even the most responsible are state decorations. Members of the government coalition have humbly boycotted the confession of a wife and daughter of one of the victims of this criminal process at the Commission's petitions meeting yesterday and for human rights and equal opportunities. The Constitution states that anyone who has been convicted of a crime or who has been unjustifiably deprived of his liberty has the right to rehabilitation, to reparation and other rights under the law. Prior to the first free elections in 1990, the Republic Secretariat for Internal Affairs, which was led by President Tomaž Ertl, systematically destroyed thousands of personal files of victims of the secret political police and many other documents, making it difficult for many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to collect the evidence necessary for the rehabilitation and correction of the injustices. Cases of the destruction of archives in the seals of prisons in Dob, August 1987, and in the offices of Vevce Paper and in the area of Kočevska River and Borovac in the spring of 1990 were recorded, partly after the first round of the first free elections. Since a person directly responsible for the violation of human rights and also for the destruction of evidence of such violations has received a high state award, all these victims of the totalitarian regime have been further humiliated by this act of the President of the Republic. The Constitution says the apartment is untouchable. No one shall enter a foreign residence or other foreign premises without a court decision against the will of the occupant, nor shall they be investigated. The uprising entered apartments and foreign business premises without any supervision and abused the privacy of the apartment for wiretaps and all-round surveillance of people. Despite the difficulty of detecting such a covert violation of human rights, direct cases were discovered in the undergraduate treatment of Edward Kocbek, Viktor Blažič, Stanek Kavčič, in the premises of the Ljubljana archdiocese, in Mikroada and many other cases of action by the Revenge against the opponents of the regime. The Constitution states that secrecy is guaranteed in letters and other publications. Without judicial decisions, the formation systematically controlled the letters and other shipments. There was a special space in the premises of Post Slovenia until the fall of the single party regime in 1990, where they systematically monitored every written correspondence of a large number of Slovenian citizens. The Constitution states that the protection of personal data is guaranteed; it prohibits the use of personal data contrary to the purpose of their collection. The audience systematically collected personal data from people, modified them and abused them for their personal discreditment in principle first the discreditation, then the liquidation, if necessary, and physical. The use of this method was addressed directly by Ertl's classmate at the secret meeting of the leadership of the Udba and other repressive authorities with the President of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, Milan Kučan, in April 1988 in Tacno, as shown in annex 6 of this material. The Constitution states that freedom of expression, speech and public appearance, the press and other forms of public information and expression are guaranteed. Everyone can freely gather, receive, and spread their consciences and opinions. Under the leadership of Tomaž Ertla, the uprising carried out grave attacks on freedom of speech and the press, which led to the seizure of individual newspapers through the prosecution or to harsh pressure on editors. A specific case is described in the book The Dark Side of the Month and numerous interviews of the affected. Mr Ertl spoke directly about the use of this method by mentioning individual cases at this already mentioned secret meeting in Tacno in April 1988. Disguising a person directly responsible for preventing freedom of expression is an act of exorcism of totalitarianism. The Constitution states that confession of faith and other definitions in private and public life is free. The rebellion systematically monitored and recorded every form of confession of the faith of people and shared them on this basis. Parents have been hindered and, in many cases, even a harshly reduced right to raise children in accordance with their values. The audience has recorded their religious definition in some decades and thus prevented individuals from taking responsible positions in the economy and public institutions. A number of concrete evidences of these mass violations are collected in a publication published by historian Milko Mikola, Religion, Church and School in the documents of the municipal committees of ZKS, the historical archive of Celje. The Constitution states that the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies is guaranteed. The mob has pointed to the prevention of all forms of peaceful organised protests. The Ertl medallion uses the term "street democracy" in documents with obvious ridicule for peaceful democratic protests. The fact that its political advocates, including members of the current government, still use this expression in the same distasteful context today, despite the fact that it is one of the fundamental human rights enshrined in Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, reinforces the President of the Republic's statement that the award of a medal to the former Head of the Udba was in fact a deliberate and ideological act. There are also some equally worrying indications that similar patterns in those who almost unanimously support the award of a medal to the former head of the secret political police are still being maintained today. In June 1984, Ertl, a medalist, prescribed a secret manual for the work of militia in the field of protection of constitutional regulations. It's in your attachment. The contents of the manual present a frightening attempt to complete the transformation of militia, by definition of the Public Order and Peace Maintenance Authority, into a tool of the secret political police. Following the findings of the former director of the Slovenian police, Pavlet Celik, this Ertlov manual was more ideologically loaded than the previous similar manual from 1970. Under Ertl's leadership, the State Security Service was the sole permit of the party to fight the political opposition's catches in the single party regime. Even in 1988, the winner at the meeting of the Presidency of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia said that the internal affairs authorities, in particular the State Security Service, paid full attention to certain phenomena within alternative movements and that even thoughts of the formation of the political opposition were emerging among the organisers of those movements. In addition, Ertl's medallion before politics was pleased with the repressive measures against the political opponents. A week after the secret meeting of the Slovenian Summit of Repression with the President of the Central Committee in Tacno, the Council of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia held the 6th meeting of the Council of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Constitutional Regulations, held on 22 April 1988, with the same smugness. He praised that there have been more complaints in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia recently than in other republics and provinces against the emerging opposition. In this respect, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in its decision No 301/96, adopted a position which reads: "For the sake of the harsh historical experience of Slovenian society from the period of the former communist totalitarian system, its fundamental objective has also been built into the historical mission of the Slovenian Constitution to prevent any attempt to re-establish the totalitarian system. The right to freedom of association falls within the framework of those fundamental constitutional values that must be respected and consistently ensured their effective application. This is so much more important because the communist regime, after the takeover of power since 1945 at the constitutional level and also through legal regulation, has visibly ensured freedom of association, including the establishment and functioning of political parties, and in real life, the then communist authorities have completely suppressed the activities of opposition political parties in every way possible by repressive measures and have effectively eliminated them from political life. The impeachment and repression of the opposition was not only inconsistent with the current constitution, but also explicitly illegal and constituted a permanent serious violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms." For this violation, I cited the Slovenian Constitutional Court, a permanent serious violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the Ertl medallion received two national medals, one in 1989 and one in 20 years later, with almost the same name. The Constitution states that freedom of scientific and artistic creation is guaranteed. At universities and other institutions in the field of science and education, the formation carried out clearances based on wiretap data, based on instigation and other grave violations of human rights and freedoms. It prevented the free entry of scientific literature into the country and bullied literary and other artists who were at least a little critical of the one-party regime. The public also systematically prevented certain opponents from accessing them in cases of employment and membership in housing organisations. Many specific cases are already described in the book The Dark Side of the Month. The Constitution states that all non-constitutional incentives to national, racial, religious and other inequalities and the spread of national, racial, religious or other hatred and intolerance are contrary. On the basis of the doctrine of class combat, rebellion, innuendo, and hatred among peoples and nations were deliberately promoted, and the latter tried to stage and strengthen even by acts of terrorism. At the time of direct management of the Udba in 1979, his superior secretary for internal affairs was then Janez Zemlarič, on the basis of political orientations, organized and led an international terrorist action to set up a bomb in the Veliovac museum in neighbouring Austria, which, following the discovery and early explosion of the bomb, turned into a major interstate and international scandal. This terrorist act greatly harmed the Slovenian minority in the Czech Republic. This bomb was set up by two formal employees or servants of the Slovenian Udba. He was later replaced and handed over to Yugoslavia, was later re-employed in the Slovenian Udba and worked in the Udba until his independence on the so-called internal enemies. In connection with this latter, Ertl’s medallion also responded and marked it as some sort of delusion and instigation, saying that none of it was true and that there was no role for him here. For this reason, in the last weeks in the Republic of Slovenia Archive, we have sought out everything that relates to this case during the public works. There's something else that's happened in spite of cleaning up. We wanted to share this additional material with Members and Members today, but the President of the National Assembly interpreted the rules unusually restrictively so that you did not get this material. This material proves that this international terrorist action was organised by the Slovenian Udba, that it was carried out by Slovenian Udba officials, that the highest political authorities in Slovenia discussed this and also proves that it was not the only international terrorist action organised at the time in the responsibility of Ertla. We've discovered at least three more similar in the archive that were described in the material that you shouldn't have received. We are also particularly concerned by the fact that former organisers of international terrorist actions, who have never been responsible for their actions, have made progress. After this action, Interior Minister Zemlaric became President of the Executive Council and Head of the Udba became Secretary of Home Affairs. They have never responded, but today they are magnified, decorated and appointed as role models and even mentors to individuals who perform responsible tasks in the executive branch of the Republic of Slovenia. In an interview with the president, Ertl told Mladina that he knew exactly what was going on in Slovenia and had resources in Belgrade. It is clear from this statement, as well as from other facts, that he was aware of the plans of the Yugoslav Army to disarm Slovenia and its Territorial Defence from 15 to 18 May 1990, after the first free elections, but did not transmit this information to either the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia or to the new Head of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or its successor to the post of Republic Secretary for Internal Affairs. In fact, Ertl's award-winning business after the first free elections avoided being asked for information on the disarmament of Slovenian territorial defence. The retention of such crucial information as information on the disarmament of the defence forces of Slovenia and the suspension of official duty presupposes business in situations where Slovenia was deliberately disarmed in order to be better occupied by the military force, clearly constitutes a crime service of treason by sabotage and, at the same time, a crime of assault on the independence of the state. Any excuse in the sense that the independent Republic of Slovenia has not been formally declared at the time and that the acts committed therefore do not constitute a crime against Slovenia becomes irrelevant due to the very legal basis for granting the President's medal. In the third paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Determining of the Republic of Slovenia, it is expressly stipulated that the Silver Order for Merit shall be awarded for exceptional work and for credits for the safety, defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia. These credits were to be earned by Ertl's medallion, which took place on 1 December 1989, more than six months before the disarmament of Slovenian territorial defence. The President of the Republic has apparently rightly put himself in the position that Slovenia, as a country, existed in some essential elements before May 1990, as the silver order confers on its security and defence in December 1989. Thus, in a clear time and legal context, he also laid down the act of treachery of his medallion, which he committed in May 1990. And it is inconceivable that the President of the Republic for exceptional work and credit in the security, defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia awarded the former political officer and chief of the secret political police, who did not notify the competent authorities of the planned disarmament of the Slovenian territorial defence, thereby in fact directly endangering the security, defence and protection of this Republic of Slovenia. As a result of this act and as a consequence of the insufficient weapons of Slovenian territorial defence at the start of the aggression against Slovenia, in June 1991, they were threatened and unfortunately also lost precious human life. The motives for this big issue are also indicated in Ertla's statements at the meetings of the Republic's Secretaries for Home Affairs, which were attended in Belgrade until April 1990. He sometimes called on the heads of the repressive authorities of other republics of the former country to work together with the opposition. Thus, at the meeting on 17 January 1989, he stated: "I think that one period of our development has ended, new forces are emerging, new relations are emerging. The unions of communists, as well as other socialist forces and our jobs, I think they're confused in this confusion. You don't know what to do or how to do it. With the people who have been in processing until yesterday and are still in processing today, we need to talk today as if it were not a process," he meant the process against the Quartet, "he went along with the army, neither me nor many in this secretariat would be any more". The Yugoslav army, which later carried out aggression against Slovenia, saw a strong ally in Ertl, as well as statements by his contemporaries in addition to official documentation. Former President of the SFRJ Presidency Raif Dizdarevic wrote in his book From the death of Titus to the death of Yugoslavia on Ertl: "Kadijevic told me that cooperation between the JLA Command in Ljubljana and Slovenian State Security is excellent." He especially praised the engagement of Minister Tomaž Ertl. At the earlier meeting in Belgrade, Ertl also said: "If we do not now within the individual groups, committees, liaisons, what will it be? Then, comrades, there's no way for us here. I don't think they'll just retire us. They'll lock us up and kill us." Directly urges comrades from other repressive authorities in the then Yugoslavia to do so. This did not happen, nor did it happen to Mr Ertl, who was afraid of what happened. No one locked him up. Fewer killed him. They've gone to retirement, and they're still getting heavy pensions. Last year, the whole state-run thing fell apart. That's too much. Since the violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms have been made public many times, the subject of numerous public debates and scientific debates and, therefore, have no doubt been well known to Dr Daniel Türk, it is clear that the one who awarded the medal is not a real bride or a ignorant person and was aware of the responsibilities arising from this. This is also explicitly confirmed by the statement, the very statement made by the President of the Republic that the award was awarded in due consideration, as well as by the fact that, despite some other statements in public, the competent administrative committee of the North Police Veterinary Organisation has never accepted the proposal to grant Ertla a medal. Neither did the competent recognition commission in this organisation discuss this. So it was a matter that grew up in the Office of the President of the Republic or was imported from elsewhere. It is not necessary to stress that the award of the award to the former head of the secret police caused much damage both in Slovenia and outside, especially since this award was awarded at the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and democratic changes in central and eastern Europe. Some international institutions and, of course, part of the European and global public have also responded. On the basis of all that we have attached to the constitutional indictment in the annexes, it is clear that the award of a medal to Mr Tomaž Ertl, the former head of the secret political police, a grave violation of the constitutional order and a direct violation of Article 34, and a direct violation of most of Articles 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia, as well as a serious breach of those laws. Political and material damage was also caused by negative symbolism, due to the time in which the medal was awarded. Undisputable is the objective causal link between the function of the act and the consequences, i.e. damage caused at home and abroad, and there is also obvious personal responsibility. Therefore, all formal constitutional conditions for the adoption of a motion for an indictment by the President of the State before the Constitutional Court and his discharge from the office of President are met. Finally, let me say that I am sorry that we have to deal with this today, at a time when Slovenia has many other problems, when we are plagued by the economic crisis and also by our own incompetence or by the government's inability to deal with it. At that time, however, the President of the Republic did not award a medal to a successful economist who is opening up new jobs, nor to a humanitarian worker who is relieved of the social consequences of this economic crisis, but to the former head of the secret political police. Today, the President of the Republic had another option to define himself; unfortunately, he is not among us. I could tell you what he actually meant by this decoration. For it is not possible to accept any simple explanation that the Resurrection was a criminal organization, as the Supreme Court says, and that they were criminal servants of this Udba, while their boss was someone who deserved a national medal. It's also unfair for employees of an organization that probably didn't all commit crimes. But now they're branded as such, and their boss won the state medal. Because of the separation of spirits resulting from the granting of this distinction, and also because of the symbolic weight of such practices, the National Assembly, and in particular the government majority in the National Assembly, today has quite a heavy responsibility. This responsibility is symbolic, it will have a long-term impact on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and public space in Slovenia, and we strongly hope that the government majority will not fall on this exam today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u137	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am informed that the President of the Republic of Slovenia will join us. Can I have a moment, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u138	In the National Assembly, I welcome the President of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk, and give him the floor to present the opinion. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members and Members, distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Today I have come to the National Assembly to present my position on the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure submitted to the National Assembly on 28 January this year. I have come to the National Assembly for the sake of respect for you, honourable Members and Members, and indeed respect for the institution of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would also like to make my position very clear at the outset on the proposal that is today in the debate. The proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure by the President of the Republic is legally unfounded, morally unacceptable and politically harmful. That's why I'm proposing to his authors that he be removed today. However, if they are not prepared to do so, I propose to the National Assembly that it reject it vigorously, decisively and clearly. I would like to clarify this position a little bit more precisely. To begin with, I would like to highlight some fundamental facts. On 24 November 2009, I gave orders to Dr. Tomaž Time, Tomaž Ertlu and Leopold Jessenka to grant medals of silver for the merits. I have awarded medals, as stated in the order, and quote, "for outstanding work and merit in the security, defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the action of the North". I would like to point out, during the North Action. That was in 1989. Not before and not later. And by no means for their full operation in the performance of their duties before the democratic transformation of Slovenia. The silver order of credit shall be awarded for the security, defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia. The third paragraph of Article 7 of the Valuation Act provides for this award as a specialty in the field of security and defence, not for work of life or other merit. The proposal for a medal was submitted by the North Police Association on 9 November 2009, with an official letter from its President, Mr. Miran Horvat. This was a credible proposal, which was also confirmed by later discussions within the Northern Union of Police Veterans. A letter containing a proposal and a justification is attached to the written version of my position, which you will receive on the parliamentary bench in these minutes. In assessing the proposals received, I took into account the historical significance of the North action, which protected Slovenia and the human rights of its people from one of the greatest threats in our recent history. With this action, the Slovenian militia prevented the so-called rally of truth, which was announced in Ljubljana. It ensured security and political stability and gave people confidence and confidence in the ability of the Slovenian authorities to protect the human rights of all and to protect democratic processes in Slovenia. The time during which this act took place was a time of disintegration of Yugoslavia, which had already passed into its final, violent period. This was a time of extremely strong pressure on Slovenia, which was exposed to the perception that the main factor in the collapse of the common country and the time when the introduction of the state of emergency and the intervention of the Yugoslav Army were a completely realistic possibility. In those circumstances, the so-called truth rally was already tested by the technique of Milosevic's violent policy, which in the present Yugoslavia, changed the legally elected leadership of individual autonomous provinces and the Republic of Montenegro and tried to introduce a centralist dictatorship. She was prepared to use all the means, from the media campaign to the exploitation of national feelings in Slovenia and to make full use of the threat by force. All of this was recalculated as an attempt to stop the democratic transformation that had already become irreversible in Slovenia in 1989. Following the mobilisation of civil society movements over the years before, a constitutional framework for democratic transformation and for the final national independence was also established in 1989. In September 1989, constitutional amendments were adopted, including a constitutional provision prohibiting the use of any exceptional measures on Slovenian soil that would have been taken without the consent of the Slovenian Assembly. In this way, Slovenia has provided itself with a constitutional basis in order to ensure protection through the Constitution of a particular position and the rights of the Republic in the event that the authorities of the Federation intervene with their decisions. A decisive step has therefore been taken at the level of constitutional regulation on the road to full state sovereignty. However, this arrangement has not yet been tested in the conflict situations of the former Yugoslavia. Outside Slovenia there were many in the current Yugoslav country who would like to stop the transformation violently. And for this they also had real power and power. One of their funds was hired by thugs who, at so-called rallys, spread and deepened fear, imposed falsehoods and used threats of all kinds. By doing so, they proved that the authorities of the Yugoslav Federation were indistinguishable, without the will and power to prevent such acts, or that the federal authorities themselves had already adopted the logic of violence. The danger of joining the Yugoslav army in this manifestation was completely real at that time. The rally of truth, which was scheduled for December 1, 1989, was planned as a culmination of pressure on Slovenia and a means of breaking and subjugating it. The Federal authorities were not prepared to prevent this experiment. In these circumstances, the competent authorities of Slovenia, the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and, on his proposals, the Ljubljana City Secretariat for Home Affairs, the Republic Assembly and the Executive Council have adopted the necessary decisions to prohibit the rally and to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and their property. However, the conclusions could not in themselves have been sufficient, a decisive, well-prepared action was needed, and above all a convincing ability to implement these conclusions - including by using force to ensure their success if necessary. That was essential. The credibility of self-defence was crucial to the successful prevention of violence. Tomaž Ertl, then Republic Secretary for Home Affairs, assured in the Republic Assembly that the plan was, I quote, "which the internal affairs authorities have in relation to the rally made for the entire territory of Slovenia and especially for the capital city of Ljubljana," ended the quote. At the end of the speech, he stressed, quote again: "People should not be afraid, they have their soap, who will do everything to keep them safe." I believe that there are still many people in Slovenia today who remember these words. They also remember that these words were not empty; they were followed by an excellently organised, trained and firmly guided force of 6,472 militias and other workers of internal affairs bodies, which ensured their conviction. Even in Yugoslavia, they knew that Tomaž Ertla’s words must be taken seriously. And this conviction was an essential element of the determination of the Slovenian militia and of the Slovenian people to resist the threat of democratic processes in Slovenia. This was something completely new in the current Yugoslav situation. The determination and strength of Slovenia have been demonstrated in the confrontation of will. The rally was cancelled, Slovenia won an important victory. And we need to appreciate the importance of this great victory today. In the face of a political conflict and the threat of violence, it was extremely important that victory was achieved without the actual use of force. Preventing violence is a much better outcome than physical accounting with violence. The achievements of this type are extremely rare in international comparisons to prevent violent conflicts. Experiences with a well-thought-out strategy and tactics gained through the North operation were also extremely important in the later stages of Slovenia's independence. That is also why confidence in the Slovenian police and its effectiveness during the summer of 1991, was so strong and its joint contribution to the independence of Slovenia. Dear Members, Members, Citizens and Citizens! In my statements about the decorations of the leaders of the North, Dr. Thomas Time, Tomaž Ertl and Leopold Jessenka, I have repeatedly mentioned that I have decided on these decorations after thorough consideration. This is based on a fundamental understanding of the importance of security both for human rights and for the introduction of democracy. In political theory, it has long been known to mention only the thoughts of modern American democracy theorist Robert Doll, who has repeatedly explained in his works that in the process of democratic transformation all human rights are important, but not all are equally relevant from the very beginning. Democratic transformation must be guaranteed very early the right of the person to his personal security and physical integrity. This is essential in order to ensure conditions in which the right to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of association and lastly the right to free and fair elections can be fully realized. Threatened and frightened people, especially victims of violence, must overcome more problems and spend more time building a democratic society. All of this is well known in the theory and practice of democracy. All of this has also been confirmed in the tragic experiences of most Member States, the successor countries of the former Yugoslavia. In Slovenia, however, thanks to our ability to protect our security in a critical and early stage of democratic transformation, we experienced a direct schooling of the whole process: from the mobilisation of civil society, through successful negotiation between the political factors of that time and the provision of basic security conditions, to the establishment of free elections in the spring of 1990, less than half a year after the successful completion of the North Action. So much for a summary of the relevant facts. I have repeatedly pointed out these facts in my public performances and here I summarize them in the essential actions, the annexes to my position, in addition to the already mentioned proposals by the North Association of Veteran Police Associations, I am also adding orders for the award of medals to Dr. Tomaž Time, Tomaž Ertlu and Leopold Jessenka, along with explanations. So much for the facts. I now wish to give my view of the essential true aspects of the document, which is called the Proposal for the Establishment of a Constitutional Complaint Procedure of 28 January 2010. This proposal does not contain the minimum content prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court Act, which is a legal act containing rules on the constitutional charge. Under these provisions, the proposal to introduce a constitutional indictment procedure should contain a description of a reported violation of the Constitution or of a serious violation of the law to be committed by the President of the Republic himself, an indication of the provisions of the Constitution or of the laws to be infringed, and a definition of the causal link between the acts of the President of the Republic and an apparent violation. The authors of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure should take into account Article 67 of the Constitutional Court Act, which provides that the proceedings of a constitutional charge are governed by the principles of criminal procedure, the principles laid down in the Constitution and the law. This requirement is a logical consequence of the rule of law, which must also apply in the case of a constitutional charge. Where serious infringements of laws or constitutions are reported to a person, the strict legal criteria for assessing the legal basis of the charges must apply. It is not enough to say which constitutional provision is supposed to be breached. It is necessary to state which order or prohibition has been specifically violated, how, by which act, this is to be done. Furthermore, what the prohibited consequences have been and what is the causal link between actions and consequences. Finally, and particularly important, what is supposed to be the intent to create an unlawful consequence? None of this can be found in the Proposal for the Establishment of a Constitutional Prosecution Procedure. The subject matter of a constitutional charge may be a legal act or a material act by the President of the Republic, not an act committed by or by any other person. A constitutional charge shall establish the subjective responsibility for specific actions. The constitutional charge is not an instrument of political assessment, or of political debate, or of exchange of valuable judgements, but a remedy for determining individual responsibility for specific and proven infringements. If these are not available, then the proposal to initiate a constitutional indictment procedure must be rejected for its legal non-justification. The reading of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure, which was lodged on 28 January this year, shows that there is no justification whatsoever. A number of articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Articles 2, 5, 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 49, 51, 58, 59, 61., 63. and 104. All of these use a structure which, in addition to the reference to Article of the Constitution and its protected human rights, describes the alleged practice of the former State Security Administration or the State Security Service, which is generally referred to in this document as the Constitution, and the position that the distinction I have granted to Tomaž Ertlu, I quote: "obviously contrary to or manifest violation of that Article of the Constitution". And there is no argument at all, the structure used reflects a valuable judgement on the past and cannot be legally relevant to the content of the constitutional charge. More. There are 34 violations of the Constitution in the proposal to initiate a constitutional indictment procedure. The simplest logic, however, tells us that it is simply not possible to do so with one single act, because it is such a substantively diverse provision that they cannot be violated by one act. The following is particularly interesting: none of the above-mentioned structures reveal a specific offence to the President of the Republic. If the obvious acts were once committed, they were committed by other people, for whom the current President is not and cannot be held responsible. The attempt to impose on the President of the Republic the responsibility for such acts is not only politically but primarily legally incoherent and is contrary to the very essence of the law. The law, including constitutional arrangements, shall apply in the time and space for which it has been adopted. The law cannot be a means of assessing the past. Such use would not only violate the principle of non-retroactivity, but would be contrary to the function of law as a system of principles and rules for regulating relations in society here and now. The law is not a means of political accounting for history, but a means of regulating relations in today’s society. Moreover, there is no causal link between the acts being the subject of these charges and the actual conduct of the President of the Republic. On the contrary, the structures mentioned show a double absence of causal link. The responsibility for the offence has not been proven to the medallion, but only to the President of the Republic who awarded the award. At this point, it is necessary to ask whether the award of the award of the award is possible to break the law or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In our legal order, the President of the Republic is the only one competent to grant the state medals of the highest grade. The selection proposal may be made by the state authorities, local authorities, organisations and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the President may also award awards by his own decision. The President of the Republic shall carry out the necessary assessments of the merits of the award and shall express his decision in the order for the award of the award. Its competence to award medals does not know the limitations of political character. The attempt to subjugate the President of the Republic in the exercise of his right and the competence to grant medals would be contrary to Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law on the emoluments of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic must also respect the principle of legality in the award of decorations. Article 15 of the Act on the emoluments of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the President of the Republic may withdraw the award if the awardor is sentenced to imprisonment for a crime against human rights and freedoms, against the security of the Republic of Slovenia, its constitutional order or against humanity and international law. The Court must inform the President of the Republic of the final judgment by which the finer is convicted. This is provided for in Article 15. Article 16 of the Act provides that a person who is sentenced by a judicial judgment of a court to imprisonment shall not bear the distinction between the sentence being suspended. These provisions of the law are relevant to today's debate and should be mentioned. They clearly state in which cases the withdrawal of the medal and thus the indirect timing of the award of the medal may be inappropriate. Only in the case of a legal judgment for offences provided for by law for certain offences provided for by law. And something has to be clear, and this is also essential: in the rule of law, only courts decide to blame crimes. No media reports, no value judgment, no evaluation of political figures, including the assessments of Members, can replace the judgment of the Court. The expression of opinions is certainly legitimate, but only the court decides in which case the medallioner is unworthy of distinction and, of course, the President of the Republic is obliged to follow the decision of the court. Everything I have said should be highlighted in particular from the point of view of the fact that the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure lodged on 28 January this year also contains claims that the medallor Tomaž Ertl has violated several articles of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, namely Articles 348, 350 and 357 of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the safety of the Republic of Slovenia, and that the President of the Republic has somehow become responsible for these acts by granting a medal. Serious and completely absurd charges have been made. Crimes of treason are thus reported to the President of the Republic [[Article 348 of the Penal Code]] , attacks on the independence of the State [[Article 350 of the Penal Code]] and sabotage [[Article 357 of the Penal Code]] . These crimes can only be committed in person and directly as a perpetrator, co-conspirator or participant, and only by acts which by nature correspond to these serious crimes, at a time when these crimes are to be committed. There is no way in which these acts can be done back by granting a medal. In the explanations of these grave accusations, we do not find even the slightest clue, let alone proof that the President of the Republic could have committed these acts. Indicators and evidence have been compensated by authors with strong claims about the apparent nature of the infringements and with various imaginative structures. These absurd features of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment would not be worth mentioning if it did not so clearly refer to the practice of indictments in the previously installed processes of the former totalitarian countries, in particular the Soviet Union and its satellites. Even during the totalitarian period of the former Yugoslavia, in the years immediately after World War II, such structures were used as the basis for the indictments. The authors of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure, which was lodged in the National Assembly on 28 January this year, used totalitarian time receipts with their writings, wishes or omissions. Let me stress, I condemn the totalitarian past, as well as the totalitarian grips that we can see from time to time today. But let's go back to the evidence of Tomaž Ertl's criminal responsibility. The courts shall decide on the offences. If Tomaž Ertl had ever been convicted of any of the alleged crimes, he would certainly not have been able to be decorated later. If the authors of the proposal for the establishment of a constitutional indictment procedure have any evidence of guiltyness for the alleged offences, they shall lodge an appeal. Of course, they must take into account that the charge is a crime itself. The President of the Republic is obliged to take into account legal norms and legal procedures and to take into account political accusations and structures that attempt to appear as legally established facts and to reject decisively. And that's why I'm here today. In the state of law, only courts decide on the guilt. The accusations that are often available to party politicians do not, however, seem to have any legal weight. This is an extremely political delicacy afforded by the authors of the proposal to institute a constitutional indictment procedure. And this ingenuity has two other specific characteristics that are particularly relevant. The authors carried out, inter alia, an interesting drafting of the 2002 Supreme Court judgment, which described, inter alia, in its explanation in the context of that judgment, the illegal activities of the former State Security Administration and the State Security Service. However, and this is particularly interesting, the quoted decision, which can be found as annex 2 to the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure, this decision does not use terms either in a statement or in an explanatory statement, I quote 'crime organisation'. The concept of criminal organization is legally known and follows from Article 9 of the Statute of the International Military Court, which in 1946 and 1947 was the case of German war criminals. However, the proposal to introduce a constitutional indictment procedure of 28 January this year systematically uses the term, quote, "criminal organisation" and, in so doing, I believe that in order to create the appearance of the finality of this designation, falsely refers to the conviction of the Supreme Court. Such falsification or manufacturing should be vigorously rejected. In addition, it should be recalled that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia made it clear in 1994 that the incrimination of the status itself was contrary to the Constitution and should not be applied in Slovenia. Criminal responsibility must always be demonstrated individually. Criminal responsibility is simply not permissible and cannot be exercised from a status such as membership in an organisation or membership of an institution or service. However, another manipulation requiring explicit rejection is expressed in the charge that the President of the Republic, by granting the medal to Tomaž Ertlu, should act in clear contradiction with the constitutional commitment that the State is obliged to respect the right of everyone to personal dignity and security. Such a legal effect, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be created by granting a medal. The authors of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure have here afforded to manipulate the concept of human dignity, which is one of the highest ethical concepts, for conceivable political purposes. The right to personal dignity is the source of human rights and the direction of the entire Constitution. The entire legal system and all its institutions are designed to protect human dignity. On a concrete basis, this is already on a legal level, but the Constitution already specifies this general legal value and defines it as a secured legal property containing explicit, specific commands and prohibitions. Human dignity is given its legal content by such standards as the principle of equality before the law, the prohibition of torture, inhumane treatment of people, the prohibition of unlawful deprivation of liberty, procedural guarantees in criminal and other legal proceedings, the right to legal remedies and other rights and legal institutions. If a State authority violates any of these rights or legal institutions, it has also violated the right to human dignity, which is always based on legally binding rights, prohibitions and obligations. The award of the award was not and could not be breached any of the legal goods, none of the rights, none of them to command which are the concrete content of the abstract concept of human dignity. Of course, I have to say this, it is possible to have different opinions on any decoration. The principle of freedom of expression guarantees the right to critical judgment. In the political debate, it is possible to express sharp and critical views as well as bizarre judgments of value. All of this is, of course, perfectly legitimate in a democratic society. The use of legal institutions, such as the proposal to institute a legal charge procedure, is manipulation, for political reasons, which requires strong rejection. And such manipulation is always ethically unacceptable. The very manipulation of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation by the President of the Republic for the purposes of political controversy is not only legal but, as I said, ethically unacceptable. In addition, there are some specific, ethically unacceptable content in the text and in the communication of the proposal to introduce a constitutional indictment. First of all, duality. The proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment is full of extremely serious accusations, the real demanization of one of the medals, Tomaž Ertla. In some of the public appearances of prominent politicians and authors of the proposal to introduce a constitutional indictment procedure, which had not otherwise been found in the text itself, but which were made public, even comparisons with Adolf Hitler were heard. At the same time, the authors of the proposal knew that Tomaž Ertl had recently received, in February 2008, the recognition of the honorary citizen of the municipality of Jesenice, by a decision of the municipal council of Jesenic, in which the parties whose Members were Members on 28 January this year submitted a proposal for a constitutional indictment procedure less than two years later. The decision on the award of the title of honorary citizen, which was adopted in Jesenice by twenty-five votes in favour and without one vote against, specifically highlights the action of the North and Tomaž Ertl described as, quote, "modest, honest and consistent Jessenian". End of quote. It's hard to imagine a more obvious contradiction between two grades of the same person. And that's not all. If the authors of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment accompany the media, they can also know that some of the key writers in the new magazine, leading thinkers of Slovenian democratic transformation and independence, have recently warned on the basis of archival documents that at the end of the 1980s the then Republic Secretary for Internal Affairs Tomaž Ertl and then Republic Attorney Paule Car, through a series of interventions, protected the writings of key texts of the Slovenian spring from the arrests and other acts of the then Federal Yugoslav authorities. Of course, it is absolutely impossible to overlook the cynical duality which led the authors of the proposal to initiate the constitutional indictment procedure and their unwillingness to accept the realistic, repeated positive actions of the awardors. This is the first of these ethical-problem content, duality. Second, the repetition of the untruths. The authors of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure again, without any causal link to the subject matter of the proposal, reiterated the falseness of my statement made at the beginning of March in relation to the victims at the Hudi Cave near Laska last year. So once again, history has left us with a hard memory. Any such memory must be respected. However, it is necessary to avoid the use of pain from the past to collect political points and to create daily political effects. Such a political start is a second-rate, unacceptable policy. The false fact that I, by my statements or actions, should in any way underestimate the victims of the massacres committed during or after World War II remains an untruth. A persistent repetition will not turn it into the truth. And if this untruth has to be rejected, I will reject it as many times as it will be necessary. Thirdly, among the ethically unacceptable content of the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure, merit should also be mentioned. Thus, on the 17th page of the proposal to introduce a claim procedure on, as the proponents say, the legally relevant decision of the President of the Republic against the signing of an order to appoint ambassadors, among which people have been proven, I quote, "which have greatly contributed to the independence of Slovenia and have met all the conditions for ambassadorial cities". Why this decision should be legally relevant in relation to the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment, the authors do not state. There is no causal link between the appointment of ambassadors and the appointment of dignitaries and which has been used as a pretext for a proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure. The President of the Republic has the power under the Constitution and the law on external matters to appoint ambassadors on the basis of a proposal from the Government. In 2008, I decided, and I stress that, after careful reflection and with firm legal and diplomatic reasons, that I would not put some of the proposed ambassadors on the table. One of them, the Foreign Minister until now, has lost confidence in incorrect information, misleading the President of the Republic during the process of appointing ambassadors and with subsequent statements that were totally inappropriate for the ambassadorial candidate. So after careful consideration, I decided not to put him in the post of Ambassador. One of the essential, even if unwritten, rules for the appointment of ambassadors is trust. And that trust was not justified by the said candidate's conduct. The question that is worth asking today is: What do these statements by constitutional applicants say about the fact that people with undisputed merits do not receive ambassadorial posts? That's an interesting question. In particular because of the reference to cases which are not in any causal relationship with the articles of the Constitution which the President of the Republic is supposed to violate. However, they point to some harmful mentality and political expectations, which are unfortunately still an important feature of the political situation in Slovenia. According to this mentality, the people who have, I quote, "a great help in the independence of Slovenia" have a kind of special position that enables, inter alia, the acquisition of ambassadorial cities, irrespective of any other problematic behaviour. The division of people into those who have contributed greatly to the independence of Slovenia and the rest is ethically unsustainable. Even if we consider the question of who and by what criteria determines the chosen ones. For it expresses its desire to absoluteize the past merits of the electorate and monopolisation of self-reliance. It expresses its unwillingness to learn all aspects and all the various contributions to Slovenia's independence. It shows the view that some people have the right to self-sustainment capital and its interest and that people who do not belong in this circle or have been excluded or even removed from it may become subject to cynical treatment and possibly even demonisation. Such phenomena point to a lack of maturity and truthfulness in our political community. Let me repeat, no one can have a monopoly on the independence of Slovenia, which was an act of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Two decades after their independence, they should be able to objectively assess the real course of democratisation of Slovenian society and the importance of all the various contributions to the process of independence. We should also take into account that those who have the greatest credit have long received the highest medals and have enjoyed and still enjoy deserved respect. But let's not rule out others! Let us adopt a more mature, more inclusive view of independence. Let us note and acknowledge any other contributions to the independence of Slovenia. Let us acknowledge that the success of this act was ensured only as a joint act. Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens of Slovenia! Today's position on the Proposal for a Constitutional Accusation Procedure is made at a time which, we know, is politically overheated and full of accusations. The proposal for the introduction of a constitutional indictment procedure, which is being examined today by the National Assembly, is one of the highlights of the current prosecution practice. And we have to think about it. What kind of society do we become, and where do all these graves, very common and sometimes completely empty and absurd accusations take us? Accusations, which become the dominant method of political debate and political struggle, are dangerously lowering the already particularly high level of political culture in our country. The dialogue that is needed by the condition of democracy is getting smaller and the charges are increasing. There's more and more smooching and hysteria. The search for populism effects on the collection of political points is a practice that ruthlessly and cynically exploits the sensitivity of the public. It is becoming less and less basic civilised restraint and a sense of measure, and the appearance of some sort of tabloid valley of Shentflorian is getting stronger. All of this distances us from the civil standards of an orderly community, and all of this is seen in Europe, and all of this is not in our benefit. More. There was an illusion that the accusation itself provided some kind of moral supremacy. It's a dangerous illusion. There is no moral strength coming from the constant accusation. The authors of this work should know that universal accusation is a reliable way of destroying moral values and social cohesion. Perhaps, but perhaps it is time for all those who really respect the rule of law and moral values to say clearly: we have enough! Public debate should be based on facts and arguments, we have in our country bodies and institutions from which we expect them to act in accordance with the legal order and in all their practice ensure the enforcement of law for all and equality of all citizens before the law. In the political debate and in the media, let us begin to show at least a little restraint and a sense of measure. Are we mature enough as a society to actually ensure all of this? From what actions in our immediate past should we draw moral strength and political maturity in order to achieve the necessary social cohesion? First, more than usual, we must trust ourselves and trust each other. In the past, we have already made morally important decisions. Let us just remember the agreement of all political parties at the end of 1989 that no party will take advantage of the achievements of the self-sustaining plebiscite for its client needs. Let us remember the communication of the Horn of Conciliation in early July 1990, which showed that all the most important social and political groups in Slovenia are capable of dealing with the most tragic period of our history and the common manifestation of the reconciliation will. Let us recall the self-sustaining efforts in 1991 and the many contributions from all segments of our society in ensuring the necessary moral strength and political cohesion. This helped to ensure a successful military action that was necessary for the success of independence, successful economic efforts that ensured a relatively smooth transition to the market economy, and all diplomatic activities that gave us recognition and respect for the situation in the international community. And what was the common denominator of all these achievements? Mutual trust and ability to act together on critical issues of our future. Mutual trust does not mean unity of opinion or political or ideological views. Mutual trust implies genuine opinion and political pralarism, but also implies a sense of responsibility for the community and, above all, an understanding that we will respond to the great challenges of time together and all. Political pralarism is undoubtedly much better than any single-party system. But let us not forget, political pralarism is a prerequisite for a sense of community. And we need more of that. We need to strengthen the key skills we need for our time: mutual trust and joint performance. We must reject renewed calls for divisions as we know from the past and should lead back to the Shentflorian Valley. It is necessary to overcome the current hypersensitivity to who has the credit for our statehood and to be prepared to recognise various contributions to the success of Slovenian independence. We must strengthen our common readiness for reconciliation. We are aware that the daily conduct of the vast majority of people in our country clearly shows that reconciliation in the hearts of people is largely here. Let us be sound in mind and not tolerate old grudges against young people, be able to distinguish the good deeds of an individual from his or her controversial actions, which must always be proved individually as personal acts. Let us also be free in this sense to be able to criticize an individual’s contentious actions and to be able to give recognition to good deeds and good work. A willingness to acknowledge any important contribution to another, including to those on the other bank in the past, is a necessary step towards normal coexistence in society. Reconciliation remains a great value and a great longing for our society, even though it sometimes seems that we are moving away from this ideal, but let us not overlook progress. A few months ago, the National Assembly adopted war laws that will contribute to the consolidation of the reconciliation process. Today, from this city, I thank all Members who have worked hard for these laws. Let such true contributions be made even more. We also refer to the 1997 Law on the Remedies, which in recent years has seen an important realization. Let us ensure that all the injustices that we can correct will be fully realized and actually corrected. At the same time, let us not forget the fundamental truths about things that have been known to mankind for thousands of years. Ever since Aishil Oreste, we know that forgiveness is an essential condition of reconciliation. The call for forgiveness has already given us the wisdom of the Greek antiquity. Christian ethics teaches that forgiveness, which is an important teaching, is of great value, both for Christians and for others, must be forgiven and asked for forgiveness. The enlightened secular ideal of reconciliation, as it has succeeded in the previous two decades in South Africa, was based on the principle of forgiveness. So why not use this historically indisputable and often tested principle to help us too? We're in Slovenia, too. Let us consider this, and let each one for himself find the way to forgiveness and reconciliation. We may be able to build an ethical policy, a more ethical policy, a better public debate and faster progress on this basis. Slovenia is facing major challenges today, and we have many problems to solve. Economic problems, unemployment, social distribution and many others. Some are the result of our own weaknesses, past and present; others are the result of the international situation. The world is becoming more and more difficult and we need to get our home home in order as soon as possible. The sooner we do so, the sooner and the better we will be prepared for the real transformation of our society. We need to become a knowledge society, because this alone will in the long term provide us with the ability to perform with products of high added value. We must prevent corruption that is flowing into our social fabric and therefore all cases in which our national authorities are exposed to corrupt practices need to be clarified. We need to become a culture society, because the post-industrial society requires a higher level of cultivation than we can overcome today. Finally, we must become a fully sovereign state, capable of owning and weighing opinions and good decisions for the future. And we will need all of this if we are to gain the place in the world that we need and want. We're not guaranteed anything. We are not making progress in this time, while in our environment many things are changing for the better, and even where progress has not been observed before. Europe and the world will not be waiting for us. Once there was a delay in the fate of the Slovenian people. Since we have our own country, it can't be, and it can't be. And that is why we need to be particularly careful in our time with the country. The State is a valuable tool to be used by the people who, by our constitution in the state of power, and by their responsible representatives, must act with skill and honesty. This is true for the decisions of the Government, for the work of the President of the Republic and also for the decision-making of the National Assembly and all the authorities of the State. I believe that in today's debate and in its decisions, the National Assembly will show wisdom and responsibility. Respectable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Today I have come to the National Assembly in order to reject legally unwarranted and morally unacceptable accusations. You noticed that I didn't come here to defend myself, but to tell you the truth. You can believe that I do not do this with a light heart or without thinking about all the dimensions of this experience. In our country, we now have a fourth attempt to initiate a constitutional indictment procedure. Three were directed against former Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovšk. And today's day is the first one against the President of the Republic. Four constitutional charges in 20 years, that's a huge number. In the United States, in the original home country of such procedures, only three times have occurred in more than 200 years. Slovenia is becoming more comfortable with the application of the constitutional charge to the world. The constitutional charge is an extremely serious and legal remedy used in extremely serious cases. The use based on political calculations should be rejected. It is also about respect for our country, respect for the institution of the President of the Republic and respect for ourselves. If we do not respect ourselves, if we do not respect our own institutions, we will not be able to expect respect from others. And that's my final thought. Dear Members and Members! You heard my point. The written text was distributed at the time of my performance. Now the National Assembly has all the elements to discuss. The National Assembly itself has its sovereign right and responsibility to discuss the proposal for the introduction of a constitutional action procedure on its own and to take its own decision. I'm sure you'll discuss it with weight and seriousness and you'll end up making a wise decision. I thank you for your attention and I count on your political wisdom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u140	I thank Mr President of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk, for his presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I had hoped that the President of the State, Dr. Danilo Türk, would be so brave that he would not only waste a series of teachings on us, but would also listen to what we think about him and his actions. I'm sorry, it's not like that. We just have the president we have. President Danilo Türk, as we know, gave the silver order for Tomaž Ertlu's credit for his extraordinary work and credit for the security, defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia during the North campaign. The granting of the highest national distinction for one single act, which was part of a regular work obligation, to a man who has caused many Slovenes and Slovenes a great deal of suffering for many years is an unserious and unworthy president of the country, at least as we imagine. It is as if the student who responded positively to one question, while the ninety-nine others were negatively awarded the Prešeren Prize. First, who or what did Mr. Ertl do at the time? He was the longtime head of the Slovenian secret police under the name Udba, for which the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia said in 2002 that the service itself organised various criminal activities, so to speak, was a criminal association and deliberately challenged them and designed the existence and responsibility of crimes. To this end, it has also falsified, fabricated or suppressed burdensome evidence. Such a Supreme Court. Once again, the Supreme Court said that the organization itself organised various criminal activities, so it is a criminal association. As the faithful guardian of the communist regime was Mr Ertl, he already says his secret manual on the work of the militia in the field of protection of the 1985 constitutional regime. In this handbook, it commands the militia to pursue and prosecute the so-called internal enemies very intensively, particularly those who, after Ertl, deny the leadership role of the Union of Communists and advocate a multilateral system and democratic parliamentaryism of the Western type. And especially at the time of the formation of the Slovenian democratic spring, Mr Ertl was concerned about the maintenance of a system in which, as we have stated in the preamble to the Basic Constitutional Charter, human rights were severely violated. The former president of the SFRJ Presidency, Raif Dizdarevic, wrote in his book From the Death of Titus to the Death of Yugoslavia on Ertl: "Kadijevic told me that cooperation between the JLA Command in Ljubljana and Slovenian State Security is excellent, he particularly commended the engagement of Minister Tomaž Ertl." At the time of the emergence of democratic tendencies, in defense of winning the Ertl revolution, he even sharpened the repression measures, as he said at the meeting of the then summit of the Slovenian repressive authorities in Tacn on 15 April 1988, [[Quote]] : "We will gradually also have to with more repression than we have had before, although I claim that in Slovenia there has been more of it recently than anywhere in Yugoslavia. I think our State Security Service has enough possibilities of working methods to put some things in order, if this is not the case, then finally with those extreme measures." So Mr Ertl was born at the time of the Slovenian spring. And to this gentleman, our President, Dr. Danilo Türk, has awarded a high state medal! The permanent and systematic violation of human rights by Slovenian secret police, led by Mr Ertl, is certainly known to a legally educated intellectual, such as Dr Danilo Türk. Nor can it be excused for not knowing Mr Ertl's work, since he has available advisers who are good friends of the Udba, its methods and structures and a systematic violation of human rights in the previous totalitarian regime. Finally, the President himself acknowledged his personal responsibility for this act, as he publicly assured him that he had given the medal in due consideration. The President obviously does not mind Mr Ertl's life opus or see anything at stake in the functioning of the Judgment. The suffering of the victims pursued, persecuted, prevented employment, imprisonment, torture and murder, our president obviously does not mind giving the longtime head of this organization a high state distinction. And here we are essentially why the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot remain silent when doing so. Can the President of the State grant the highest national medals to anyone? "Yes," you'll say. And we say, "No." It is true that the President's decision to award the medal is sovereign, fully responsible, and so does the judge's judgment in a sovereign, fully responsible manner. But in doing so, respect for the laws and constitutional principles of justice, equality and respect for personal dignity must be respected. The President must also be aware that he shares not his own, but his national medals. He's just an official who, on behalf of the state, decides and executes the award, an official for a few years, and then again what he was. The independence of Slovenia was not only about getting out of Yugoslavia, but also about getting rid of the previous system in which, as stated in the preamble to our Basic Constitutional Charter, human rights were severely violated. The granting of a high state distinction, which is legally granted for exceptional work and merit in defence of the present Republic of Slovenia, i.e. that state creation which has liberated the former non-democratic system, is more than cynicism to the man who has protected this system until the end. He's an abuse of the presidency. This division is also immoral because it is offensive to all those victims that Ert’s Udba pursued, persecuted, imprisoned, tortured, or even murdered. The same ignorant attitude towards the victims of the totalitarian regime is also felt by the President when he does not have time to think carefully about the reverberation of his words and the unexpected journalistic question about the grave pit, spontaneously answering that it is a second-class topic. Such spontaneous and uncontrolled answers usually reveal what a person is carrying in his heart. A similar attitude towards the victims was also shown by the President in granting a diplomatic aggression to the new Russian ambassador in Slovenia, Mr Zawayev, whom the entire world public is aware of as a covert event in the Republic of Chechnya, which was also discussed four years ago by the European Parliament's resolution on Chechnya, when it drew attention to serious human rights violations in the form of hostage-taking, enforced disappearances, torture and murder. Last year's Sakharov Prize winner, former Russian challenger and prominent human rights fighter Oleg Orlov, also warned that the appointment of Zavga is a disgrace to Slovenia. This attitude towards the victims of totalitarian regimes is not to the extent of the European political culture expressed in many resolutions on the condemnation of totalitarian systems and the rehabilitation of their victims. This culture of totally simple human compassion for victims is also embedded in the core of last year's European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which, among other things, states: "Because it is necessary to preserve the memory of Europe's tragic past in order to honor the victims, condemn the perpetrators and lay the groundwork for reconciliation based on truth and memory, because in terms of the victims, it does not matter which regime deprived them of freedom, torture or murder for any reason. It expresses, "in fact, the European Parliament", respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe, and worshiped all those who fought against tyranny and oppression." So this is the European resolution. This is the resolution the Slovenian Democratic Party wanted last fall to be supported by the Slovenian Parliament, and this has failed. After a few months of being blocked by DeSUS, LDS, SNS, Res and SD and the Christian Socialists on this resolution, they finally decided that we did not actually have totalitarianism and that democracy was established by means of the communist regime. Even in the debate on the Zauga case, government policy did not allow ordinary human compassion for Chechen victims to have any effect on political decision. And if we step out of Parliament, we see a similar political culture or non-culture. Those who continued to renew the powerful inscription "Our Tito" on the Sabbath did not think that the victims of Tito's crimes or their children were still alive and that each time they saw Tito's magnification on the threshold of their home. Even in Ljubljana, the most powerful statues of the greatest criminals in the history of the Slovenian people still stand on elite sites. Shortly after the Huda Cave was discovered and the president of the Union of Fighters publicly announced that Tito had given the command for these terrible seas, the city's leadership named one of Ljubljana's streets after Tito. I ask you what is similar to that of the victims and their other living relatives. Certainly not a pitiful compassion and respect for personal dignity, which is among the fundamental constitutional principles, but rather a similar relationship to a joyful victory over the victims. Why do I mention a series of similar cases from our current political reality when proposing a constitutional indictment? Because the latest action by President Türk concerning Ertl cannot be understood without a broader context. The President is delegating the highest position in the country. All his actions and words have great, even symbolic significance for the country and political culture in it. And instead of critically acting as the guardian of political culture and Article 34 of the Constitution, the President is acting in the same way in all such political non-cultural excesses as the guardian of political culture and Article 34 of the Constitution, thereby legitimizing a morally distorted policy in which there is no place for compassion for victims and respect for the personal dignity of those who are not or do not belong to the heirs of the Communist revolution. With such a perverse policy, the rule of law is turned into a perverse state. That is true of many cases, including the recent affair with the tragic death of dog owners. Everything seems to have been in line with the rules and was covered, from experts and commissions to the judiciary and policy. But while the dogs were immediately returned to the owner’s will, one of the victims of these killer dogs has been waiting for a fair compensation for four years. While a farmer on the coast has been asking for permission for 20 years to have his son build a modest home for his own family in his garden, under the same regulations and administration, a political man several hundred metres away from a settlement on a protected farm gets permission to build a mighty castle overnight. While a small craftsman can't even get 10,000 Euros of credit to prevent bankruptcy of his trade, the director of an enterprise gets 100 million Euros of credit, without adequate insurance, to take over the company. All these drasticly different solutions take place under the same laws, the same rules, the same administrations, the same bankers, the same judges and the same politicians. Whether laws are so ideal, the rule of law is turned upside down if law is used or abused by morally depraved people. Without justice, solidarity and, of course, compassion, there is no rule of law. If this added value is not available, then we will pay an increasing tax on the depravity of the rule of law, first those who are not close to the ruling policy and influential networks, sooner or later others. Your Honor! If ever, Slovenia needs a president today who will not only follow the letter of the law but also the spirit of the constitution; therefore, he has followed those values on which the rule of law stands and falls and cannot be fully captured. However, since the actions of the current President prove that it does not follow the spirit of the Constitution and thereby violates its basic provisions, we propose that its conduct be decided by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u143	Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Slovenian public! Following a series of requests for extraordinary meetings of Parliament and its committees and commissions, which attempt to deliberately create the impression that there are emergencies in the country and that the economic and economic crisis must also be turned into a political crisis at all costs, and after three interventions in a year, members of the opposition SDS and SLS filed a 22-page indictment against the President of the Republic for violations of the Constitution and serious violations of the law, as recorded by the Constitutional Court. Following largely unfounded attacks on virtually all state institutions from the judiciary, the Kosovo Commission, the Court of Auditors, the Information Commissioners, the Ombudsman, and so on, for the first time in the history of the Slovenian State, we have experienced that a party has used this, the Constitution only provides for the possibility of political exclusion in the general elections of the elected President before his term of office ends. It has been said that the SDS has misused this constitutional option for its political needs by filing a constitutional indictment and has opened another new front in line with its permanent offensive strategy on all sides. By bringing a constitutional charge against the President of the State, he first attempts to patch up political damage for force after recent disclosures, when it turns out that their accusations against certain political rivals from the centre of the country were unfounded and served solely as manoeuvres to defile individuals. Another reason could be to divert the public's attention away from their people's involvement in corruption-suspecting transactions with Finnish armoured personnel. The fact is, Janez Janša is a champion in a wide range of suspected corruption cooperation in this military business. Moreover, almost every day in the media there are new and new burdensome documents indicating the involvement of the SDS in the distribution of commissions that could be called bribery. The signatures of the Members of the SLS under this charge should be viewed from a second point of view. We understand their need for opposition, but it is more or less obvious that they have provided the necessary signatures on this charge alone. From here, there is also some kind of lukewarm support for this constitutional charge. They probably also have a bad conscience, because they like to stress that there is a need and that policy should address, above all, the problems posed by the economic crisis. This time it is not among the nationalists, Jelinčič's nationalists, as it is obvious that to accuse the President of the State of the violation of the law of the award of a silver medal, even though this constitution gives him this right to award medals and honors, that it is actually too much for Mr Jelinčič. Why too much? When the Constitutional Commission, chaired by Professor France Bučar, discussed the draft constitution, opinions differed mainly in the article on the responsibility of the President of the Republic in which Parliament may accuse the President of the Republic of the violation of the Constitution before the Constitutional Court. At the time, the majority felt that the constitutional charge of the President of the State should be limited only to cases where the President was knowingly worse in violation of the Constitution and the law or that the charge should be an exception to the worst cases of violation of the Constitution. For example, Professor Tone Jerovšek also agreed that a constitutional charge should be limited when it comes to the abuse of the Constitution. If we did not restrict it, in his opinion at that time, I would quote: "in the Council of State, we would constantly decide whether to accuse the President or not." End of quote. We do not deny that many of us do not agree that President Danilo Türk, among other police officers, also distinguished someone who, in the early 1980s, directly led the then State Security Service and later served as Internal Minister until 1990. We also share opinions and views on the role of the former Interior Minister in the previous regime in the Group. Above all, we are convinced that a broader consensus on the bearers and their actions should always be sought in cases of awarding decorations. Otherwise, giving a medal can lead to strong politicization of opinions as to whether a medallioner or his action deserves such honor at all. This, however, can cause harm to both the medallion and the medallion institute. Nevertheless, we are convinced that, by granting this award, the President of the State has not violated any law, but at least forty-four articles of the Constitution. Although we have ten opinions, ten opinions, we are united and the only ones who respect the Constitution this time that this constitutional accusation by the President of the Republic of Danil Türk does not hold up such a kind and resilient professional and legal criticism. Therefore, if the charge is not legally substantiated, it could be said that it is merely a matter of political accounting. If we read it, the main player is not the president of the country, as we would expect from a legally correct accusation, but someone who has retired before the constitution that is supposed to violate it has been adopted. So if we carry out the sentence consistently, the mental acrobatic of the SDS is the following: the current president of the country violated the constitution because he decorated someone who was supposed to violate a constitution that was not or was then in force by another constitution. Therefore, even if this, nicely said, strange, political, political fraud by any political miracle in this House has reached the Constitutional Court, there is no way that the President of the Republic is really being dismissed. Ironically, he expressed himself very similarly and appreciated this constitutional accusation by Judge Cyril Ribičič, who said that a freshman at any law school in this country would not receive a positive assessment of the seminar's task with such content. The charge does not build on the possible personal responsibility of the President of the Republic, but its responsibility is justified by the functioning of the State Security Service at the time when other constitutions were in force. The far largest part of the indictment against the current president dates back to 45 years of the previous communist regime, or more precisely, to the functioning of the State Security Service at that time. According to today’s view of human rights violations, the then State Security Service did not have a clear deadline. But why have her crimes in the SDS been overlooked in some way in these numerous accusations? Why is the SDS now accusing the President of the country? Why, as in the state of law, did Ertla and the entire State Security Service not have been brought before them at the time of their independence and later, when Mr. Janez Janša was also part of the authority and Mrs. Barbara Brezigar was the prosecutor during the time of Attorney General Anton Drobnič? Or at a time when Mr. Janez Janša was also Prime Minister and Mrs. Barbara Brezigar became Attorney General if they are or if you have evidence of these charges? Then let the police, the D.A. and the judges and the lawyers do their job. But if there's no prosecutor, there's no judge. However, it is not obvious that all of this is the case, since some SDS individuals would likely have had less - liked details on a daily basis. Several of the party's leading and prominent officials were in the previous regime members of the Communist Party and participants in party nepotism, as you like to say. For example, SDS President Janez Janša was a member of the ZSMS and the Union of Communists, a member of various federal and republican authorities, if I only mention him, and perhaps also Mr Miho Brejc. In the SDS, you know very well that sending the President of the State to the sad bench at the Constitutional Court was not really your goal. The only political benefits you are promising are that you turn Parliament into a political and judicial tribunal. The contents of the indictment reveal, inter alia, that you are attempting to account through the President of the Republic for some of the personal insults of the leader of the largest opposition party, Mr Janez Janša, from past years of fighting for power. In doing so, those who feel that they have not been sufficiently celebrated and rewarded for their services forget that the independence of Slovenia was also the result of the efforts of many others. In their constant desire to attribute more credit to themselves than they deserve, they do not always become ridiculous. It is more dangerous to bring needless discord among people and to prevent their mature and reasonable participation by all in creating our present and future. When we have fought independence and our own country, we are now, thanks to such political moves as this constitutional accusation, engaged in constant revelations, resentments and sometimes genuine hatred for back, and time is running from the present to the future. Let me quote Mr Tonet Pavčk, poet and important actor of Slovenian independence who wrote in one of his thoughts, quote: "We have lost our minds, but it will take a long time to get rid of stupidity." Formally, the SDS, by accusing the cannon of its greatest calibre, has committed itself to the President of the Republic, who does not belong in its ideological-party framework, and in fact these are cannons with bullets of political and personal selfishness. Thus, in the indictment, SDS writers next to Ertle mention Mr Milan Kučan and their responsibility for the arrest of Janez Janša, relying on the memories of Yugoslav party February Rajf Disadrević and infamous General JLA Veljk Kadijević. More towards the end of the indictment, where confusion is growing, is the name of the current Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal. Her constitutional sin was supposed to be that supposedly the same as Ertl called a peaceful meeting more than 20 years ago, and I quote, "a street democracy." In addition to Ertl, Kučana and Kresalova, constitutional guilt was also at the heart of the President of the country because the ambassadors were not confirmed, among other things, by Mr Dimitri Ruple and some proposed by the government at the end of the term of office. Although Mr Dimitrij Rupel said he was rude in 1995 about Janša, I quote: "a free demagog who does not choose the means". The sin of President Danil Türk was that he did not also mark the former ambassador in the Vatican. In this regard, it is interesting that internal Minister Kresalov and Dimitrij Rupel are also arguments from Janšev's last political-ideological record of God, all is permitted. This writing is apparently complementary to today's attempt to ideologically account with political opponents when they try to fight for power to overcome everything that has happened in the last [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u145	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u146	That the President of the State, by granting the silver medal to Tomaž Ertle, threatened the constitutional foundations, is clearly an exaggeration that limits already to the loss of common sense. In the SDS and in the SLS, we should ask ourselves whether the Slovenian states themselves and their reputation are not in greater danger than these premeditated violations of the Constitution with regard to the sale of arms, and finally with Patria, where distributions of the funds for the payment of bribes appear in the daily press. In doing so, it was unknown where large sums of money had gone, but within the country everything had been swept under the carpet years ago. These are written books, spoken and confirmed statements, but the main actors of the arms story with eternal denial and misrepresentation remain on the political scene and continue to poison the political atmosphere in our country. Finally, let me present the position of the Zares Group with the following illustration. Even if God is not, sin would be involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already informed Mr Tomaž Ertl that we condemn and regret this decision by the President of the Republic, because it is a mockery to all who have sincerely acted for the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, we make it clear that we will support the constitutional accusation made by the President of the Republic of Danil Turk, because for us this distinction is fundamentally contrary to the fundamental values of Slovenian democratic society and the historic greatest achievement of this country, namely independence, and constitutes a serious violation of the Constitution of named human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Slovenian People's Party cannot understand that the President of the State is a man who was the head of the organisation of the former State Security Service. Services that have systematically violated all fundamental human rights, including crime and terrorism, as a key tool of the current repressive authorities. The President's explanation of distinction, which in our view is an attempt to change historical facts, is also disputed, because, through this award, someone who has objectively cooperated against the democratisation of Slovenia wants to be made one of the symbols of independence and democratisation. Nor are we to privatize self-determination by anyone - this is certainly the success of the entire nation - but we are against that of someone who has undeniably been against independence. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not dispute whether Tomaž Ertl led an action to prevent the so-called truth rally in 1989. His participation in attempts to suppress democratisation and his attitude towards democratically elected authorities and the independence of Slovenia is known and recognised as such. That decorating such people for SLS is not only controversial but totally unacceptable. Unfortunately, Mr Tomaž Ertl's medal also means a step back and a fortification of divisions in the Slovenian nation. Democracy and independence of Slovenia are the biggest symbolic historical moments that have fully connected the Slovenian people, regardless of political, religious and other differences more than any event before or after. However, Mr Tomaž Ertl's distinction does not link up, but parts of the Slovenian nation and reports that fundamental rights and human freedoms are written on paper in Slovenia today. Well, it's constitutional paper, so apparently the President of the Republic doesn't care much. We want to be perfectly clear here. The move of the President of the Republic was inappropriate and irresponsible. So much more because, especially today, it is in a complex and crisis situation in which not only Slovenian politics has entered in the last year, but the whole Slovenian society and nation, we literally need the authority, the political personality that all people will trust. Unfortunately, the President of the Republic, with this irresponsible move, has taken away the role of an interlocutor in Slovenian society from his presidency, right here and now, when this holding would be crucial and irreplaceable. Sam has discredited the role of president, who, by direct election, gives it to him on his own. It is a matter of continuing to discredit the role of the President, which has already begun with a completely inappropriate statement by the President that the Huda Cave and its events are a second-class topic. Today, the President of the Republic should be a catalyst for cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. In the motion for an accusation by the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court, there is much evidence of the actions of Mr Tomaž Ertl, who were undoubtedly directly directed against democratic events in the Republic of Slovenia and against the independence of Slovenia. In this place, I should only point out the judgment of the Supreme Court, which has already been mentioned and whose opinion is that the Resurrection was a criminal association. In its judgment of 23 May 2002, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia wrote down, and today this has already been said several times, and I will repeat it, quote: "Today it is known that this association has not only dealt with intelligence tasks, but also organised various criminal activities itself, deliberately challenged them, and constructed the existence and responsibility of criminal offences. To this end, it has also falsified, fabricated or suppressed burdensome evidence. Victims of such activities, usually political opponents or otherwise-thinking, did not generally have the opportunity to disclose the structures of the Resurrection and Rehabilitation during the period of the regime." End of quote. Clearly, then, the Uprising has killed, tortured, and cruelly humiliated people and has purposely beaten their human dignity. She used blackmail to recruit coworkers and trustees to lock them up in psychiatric institutions, lock people up, monitor and eavesdrop on them. The rebellion extorted confessions by using methods of the worst physical and mental torture. Above all, the Republic Secretariat for Internal Affairs, which was led by the distinguished President, Mr Ertl, systematically destroyed thousands of victims of the secret political police before the first free elections in 1990, making it difficult for many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to collect the evidence necessary for the rehabilitation and correction of the injustices. The personal role of Mr Ertle in totalitarian and non-democratic procedures is, in our view, clear and sad that all the people who were victims of this organization, who were gravely violated by fundamental human rights at the time, and all their properties, who will be the pain of the injustices committed with the undemocratic methods of the secret police, have carried in them all their lives, this time at the time of the independent Slovenia experienced a once-great humiliating blow and a new pain, as this distinction denies the existence of the victims of the secret police and the repressive methods of the totalitarian regime. With this award, the President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk, denies the injustice and the pain of all those affected. If today the President of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk, here in the Parliamentary Chamber, had to look into the eyes of the victim of the former secret police - what would you say to her? That the awarding of the Ertle is the most noble thing the President of the Republic could have done? Would you wave your hand and say that, despite all the injustices that the organization has committed under the leadership of Tomaž Ertla, Mr. Ertl still deserves a medal? In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, this distinction is therefore understood as a deliberate degradation of a particular work of citizens and citizens. Clearing the memory, distorting the facts and sweeping the truth under the carpet. I'd like to ask, Mr. President, I'm constantly disturbed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u149	Excuse me! Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u150	As the President of the Republic has said, as regards the assessment of the current issue, we can agree. Unfortunately, however, the President of the Republic became part of the problem because of his actions, not part of the solution. The call for reconciliation issued by the President of the Republic is commendable, but reconciliation will not be achieved through the award of recognition to Mr Tomaž Ertl, but through the conviction of the totalitarian regime, which Mr Ertl has made. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u151	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u152	Finally, let me just mention that in the Slovenian People's Party, immediately after the disputed award of the State medal to Tomaž Ertl by the President of the Republic, we have proposed that Mr Ertl himself return the national medal. Because if I could get the wisdom to return this medal myself, I could partially correct the president's mistake. Also, this expression of his awareness, although his negative actions from the past cannot be changed, could mean that he himself is personally aware of the responsibility for his past controversial action against democratisation in Slovenia and the responsibility for the implementation of the instructions of the Yugoslav authorities, which were not inclined to the idea that the Slovenian nation will finally live alone within its own country. We will, of course, support the Slovenian People's Party's Group's proposal to accuse the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, because we believe that, among other things, the award of this award has caused tremendous harm to the country of Slovenia and its citizens. After all, Mr Ertl was awarded a medal at a time when the entire democratic world celebrated the 20th anniversary of the end of totalitarianism in Europe and the fall of the Berlin Wall. On the other hand, the President of the Republic should act as President of all citizens and citizens, and not just as President of one part of the citizen. Above all, it is unacceptable that the values of patriotism and the works of many who co-created the state of Slovenia and were direct victims of control and activities of the former secret political police are politically denied by their actions. The President of the Republic invited us to dialogue and listen to each other. It would be wise for the president to listen to us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Joško Godec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, my colleague. I will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on the motion for an indictment by the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court on the violation of the Constitution and on the serious violations of the law. Today, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, we are witnessing a motion for an indictment by the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court for violations of the Constitution and serious violations of the law. This debate in Parliament is supposed to start on a procedural basis today. It is income without precedent both in formal and substantive terms, which clearly sets new guidelines for the opposition's operation and political climate in general or not. And with what did the President of the Republic of Slovenia earn such a terrible charge? By acting in accordance with his powers conferred on him by the Constitution given to him by the laws of law, he acted in the award of decorations and honorary titles. We have before us a proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, but is this proposal tabled for violations of the Constitution of Slovenia or possibly for serious violations of the law? We answer that we do not share such an opinion with the general public, with experts in this area, even those who do not object to the recognition granted. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will not embark on whether the recipients of the silver order for credits to the North, Mr Tomaž Ertl, are fit for medal or not. Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia respect and fully trust the decisions taken by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic of Slovenia is not just an institution defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which could be attacked if one political option was to be loved. It is a blue and by citizens, citizens of Slovenia trust a valuable and valued person who represents the unity of the country both inside and outside, and has such an important integration role in the country. Have you asked yourself what the consequences of this absurdly worthless proposal will be, both in a formal sense and in a substantive sense, to the President of the Republic of Slovenia as a person and to the President of the Republic of Slovenia as the Head of State not only in us but in other countries and in international organisations? I don't think you've even thought about such a question, let alone answered it. We do not mind so much the fact that the complainant of this constitutional charge has questioned the merits of this award, but we are disturbed by the fact that the President's proposal has fully politicised to the point that, in this particular case, it not only impresses but actually constitutes an abuse of constitutional mechanisms to address its own unresolved ideological traumas. While this is a fully legitimate constitutional instrument, which is very rarely used in parliamentary democracy and only as an extreme asset of established responsibilities, it can only be used in infringements of the Constitution and the law in the management of the function, and not as a means of determining whether the President of the State is appropriate or appropriate. And it follows from the text of the proposal for a constitutional indictment: the applicant misuses the institution of constitutional accusation as a means of ensuring the appropriateness and appropriateness of the conduct of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, and not as a just and reasonable institution, as a means of determining his responsibility in violations of the Constitution and in serious breaches of laws. Therefore, such a concrete proposal for an indictment, which is a fully legitimate, constitutional instrument, is assessed by the Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners as having a marked political connotation because it is an example of a pure abuse of democracy. The President of the Republic has already explained several times the reasons for the award of a medal for carrying out the North action, which protected Slovenia from the aggressive nationalism of Slobodan Milosevic. The distinction granted for a concrete action is a recognition of the specific merits of security and defence and simply cannot be interpreted as a violation of human rights. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we estimate that the charge in terms of contempt of human rights is unrealistic; even more! We think she's insulting to the Institute of the President of the Republic. Also, the fact that the proponents cited in their explanation a violation of as many as forty articles of the Constitution, which the President was supposed to violate, shows that the applicant was not convinced of the key breach and that he was even aware of the complete incomprehensibility of the proposed indictment. It is very unlikely that a person with a single public act would violate such a large number of constitutional provisions. During the reading of the proposal and its proposals, the argument was put forward in one way that it is possible to understand that the constitution was violated by Mr Tomaž Ertl, but not by Mr Danilo Türk, third president of Slovenia. More! The proposal itself pleads guilty to the Udbi, not to allege concrete violations of the Constitution by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the proposal for an indictment for a political game is being made, especially for one reason, that it is clear to the applicants as old political cats in advance that the constitutional charge cannot succeed because it does not have a majority in Parliament. The fact is that this legal institution is intended only for the most pressing cases if, for example, the President of the Republic owns power or uses the army and the police to prosecute citizens or if he himself directly violates human rights. This proposal also lacks the basic characteristics of legal instruments: clarity, specificity, attachment to a specific person. Members of the DeSUS Group believe that the procedure of the drafters of the text as well as the drafter of this act is to the State and that its citizens are extremely irresponsible, immoral, inappropriate and double-minded. The quasi-explanatory arguments for the proposed charge are baseless, as has already been said, extremely offensive. We therefore appeal to the applicants to end this political circus and to withdraw their proposal from these hysterical ideological attacks on the President of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as on other institutions in the country. However, if this does not happen, I am proud to say that the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired People's Party of the Republic of Slovenia has unitedly and firmly supported the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danil Türk, and that we will vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I must say that the sadder and sadder night is tonight, because the constitutional charge is not of interest to those who have filed it, because they do not have time to listen, let alone participate in the matter. We will not support the motion of the President of the Republic's indictment before the Constitutional Court in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. There is no valid reason for this exceptional measure. For it is unfounded, unacceptable and unacceptable to Slovenia, both in the internal and foreign policy areas. The first constitutional indictment in the history of Slovenia alone is accompanied by a re-emergency of one of the political poles, which in this way generates and sustains new and renewed potentials of discord. It is more about recognition of the self-sustaining effort and merit, in which the noble acquaintances of the spring changes on the one hand and their disfavored, of maintaining the status quo directed by the darkeners of old metal and the regime on the other. The first certainly marks truthfulness, transparency, human rights and rule of law, while others are more agreeable to plots, dark corridors, and democratic talk with hidden figs in their pocket. We are not in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia for such divisions and will never land. This time, the president of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk, who, with his medal in Tomaž Ertl for his sole role in the North action, was in violation of almost the entire second chapter of the Constitution, was to deny the entire catalogue of human rights. Opinions on the appropriateness of granting recognition can, of course, be different and, in modern democratic society, it is undoubtedly difficult to find a more appropriate forum for their pluralism and freedom of opinion and speech at all, such as Parliament. However, in the relentless bombing of various, media-like wingeds and the service of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation, it is hardly a hidden tendency to place an equation between the sins and crimes of the former State Security Service and the democratically elected President of the country, who, on top of everything with his past activities in various roles, certainly contributed greatly to the protection of human rights in that country. The collateral damage to this political accounting and discrediting will ultimately not only be the loss of the reputation of the institution of the President of the country, but also an extremely important institution of the constitutional charge, and not least through it the Parliament and its supervisory role. A responsible and prudent policy, which is truly committed to fundamental democratic principles, would never go beyond that. According to all the hard words, burning oblivion and calls for spring in the streets, there simply had to be a constitutional accusation. Otherwise, its investors would act very unconvincingly and inconsistently in the public eye, so they simply are no longer incapable of stopping this train and are probably not ready to stop. With all the other actions and words, it may also be necessary to ask if the driver is still on the train. Everyone has the right to have an opinion on the actions of the President of the Republic. Each individual has the right to share these views with the wider, all-Slovenian public. Finally, this is one of those rights that we thought was so important that because of it we were all together, citizens and citizens of this Slovenia were prepared to form our own country. The State, whose foundation and guarantee is the Slovenian Constitution; the Constitution, which informs us in the context of this hearing: The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia grants the President of the Republic the power to grant medals. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not provide for the President of the Republic to whom it assigns and to whom it does not. The President of the Republic is sovereign in these decisions - this sovereignty draws from the will of the people, expressed by the people in free and democratic elections, where he was given a mandate to perform this extremely important and respected function. Whether Mr Ertl deserves a medal or not, it can be a matter of each individual's judgment, and it can certainly be a matter of debate. Whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is not a matter of judgement of each individual, it is primarily a matter of the Constitution, it is a matter of the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia and it is a matter of jurisdiction which this Constitution and this order confer on the President. The decision of the President of the Republic to grant recognition is therefore a matter of his personal judgment, not of general legal judgment. Just like it's a matter of his personal judgment of a decision whose convict will pardon. In both cases, decisions are not limited to legal rules; they are sovereign, only personal rights. The decision of the President of the Republic in these cases is therefore not assessed in accordance with legal rules and the judgment on the merits of the award of the award cannot be pronounced by the Constitutional Court and the National Assembly - but it can certainly be expressed by the people in direct elections. The motion for an accusation by the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court, according to the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, is an abuse of the Constitution, an abuse of the prosecution procedure before the Constitutional Court and is an abuse of the Institute itself of the President of the Republic. In the material prepared by our opposition colleagues on the motion for an indictment before the Constitutional Court, there is not one single argument that would suggest that the President of the Republic violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in any article. That is not surprising, for it cannot be, for the Constitution gives the President of the Republic the right to award medals without imposing any restrictions on him; therefore, the Constitution cannot violate those restrictions. And it is because of all this mentioned and listed in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that we will not support the Proposal for an indictment by the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, including the Group of Social Democrats, of the proposal of the opposition groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party not to press charges against the President of the Republic of Dr Danil Türk before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As all of us have said, in our own words, we have already said, that the constitutional appeal is prepared in such an unfair, undignified and demeaning manner to the institution of the constitutional charge, to this National Assembly and to the institution of the President of the State, that the proponents maintain at least their credibility if they withdraw it without discussion or postpone it to the National Assembly to reject it. The material presented does not have the content required for a constitutional charge, and you know this also from the proponents. The proposed material serves only as a pretext for discussion on the political suitability of the conduct of the President of the State on the granting of State decoration, the silver order of credit for exceptional work and the security and defence of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the action of the North, the three workers of the internal affairs bodies at that time. This is a pretext for the applicants to open a political debate on the appropriateness of the medal; even more so to open a debate on the medallion and the time in which he worked, not to accuse the President of the Republic of any action which constitutes a violation of the Constitution and a serious violation of the laws. However, a constitutional indictment is not an appropriate political remedy for political discussion. The constitutional charge cannot be the basis for determining the political appropriateness and accountability of the President's actions. The constitutional charge can only be a specific type of criminal procedure for finding violations of the Constitution and serious violations of the law. The President of the Republic could not, by granting a medal, violate the provisions of the Constitution, as he fulfilled only his constitutional powers. The National Assembly is therefore, as it has done many times in the last year before the test, how to legally and politically correctly implement the constitutional institutions of a democratic state by contributing to the achievement of the legality, legal security and principles of the rule of law and to the development of democracy in the country, but not by using these legal institutions for unconstitutional purposes and for political purposes to create an atmosphere of emergency and a reason for extraordinary action, which, on the basis of the opposition's proposals, we are faced with virtually every week and every session. All with the desire to prevent the Government from carrying out regular tasks, making the functioning of the National Assembly and the Government more difficult, and by diverting attention to minor issues, to create an impression in the public on the inefficiency of the coalition, on social inefficiencies and chaos in order to contribute to general dissatisfaction and justify their call on the streets. The proposed material, which is to be discussed today, has a clear and just objective: to discuss the past, to accuse the President of the Republic - and by the way anyone else who would dare to oppose you - and to promote disapproval and hatred among people in principle: as bad as possible, the better, of course, the better for the opposition that has filed a constitutional indictment. For the purposes of the opposition, the institution of the President of the Republic is now trying to discredit itself. The President of the Government, the Government, the coalition, the individual ministers are not enough, and all the cannons of the President of the Republic must be attacked. However, the President of the Republic is not an institution whose reputation and functioning can and can - of course in a political sense, not in a formal sense - be misused in an easy, reckless, legal and political manner to destabilize the situation in the country and for the political interests of one of the parties or its President. Although the introduction of a proposal for a constitutional indictment before the National Assembly is only a first step, it should be stressed that it must only be politically and legally responsible for the parties to the proposal, and by no means should the entire National Assembly. The responsibility of the opposition for this debate must be stressed that the shame and criticism of the unresponsibly prepared proposal and its debate should not fall to the National Assembly as a whole. To prevent the public from blaming the entire National Assembly for the infertility - and I am sure, to a large extent - of the ideological and political debate, two opposition parties who have given such a role must blame. A constitutional charge cannot be applied to the political discredit of the President. It should be aimed at extremely rare and exceptional situations where the President has actually violated the Constitution or has violated the law worse. The proposer should know and take into account that in the process of determining the responsibilities of the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court, the principles of criminal procedure laid down in the Constitution and in the laws of the Constitutional Court have been applied in respect of matters not expressly regulated in the Law on the Constitutional Court. I will not talk about the first years of law school, which have listened to the first lecture in criminal law, but I would warn you that the constitutional principles which are fundamental to criminal proceedings are: the presumption of innocence contained in Article 27 of the Constitution, which means that to whom there is no proven guilt for concrete acts, he is innocent. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what concrete action have you committed to Mr President of the State that he is to be blamed and therefore a constitutional charge against him is possible. I've really read twice, three times your text, and I've looked harder, and I've found less of these things. Second. The constitutional charge is also subject to the principle of equality before the law referred to in Article 14, which means, inter alia, that the institutions of the previous system and the people who conducted or carried out certain works in them should be guaranteed the same specific criminal conduct, the charge against such conduct, the determination of responsibility and the fact that such a constitutional charge is not based on the general assumptions on the criminal association. Moreover, as the president pointed out, on the basis of a false quote, when this verbal relationship in the judgment you are referring to is not used anywhere, but also refers to the Judgment of 1948, 1949, and not to the Judgment of 1980 or 1990. Third. The rights of judicial protection referred to in Article 23 and the right to a remedy referred to in Article 25 of the Constitution must be taken into account. If the criminal procedure is not properly carried out, no one may be guilty and not the President of the State on this basis. And finally the principles of legality in criminal proceedings and other things. A constitutional charge would be brought under the Constitution only if it referred to the specific conduct of the President which would violate the Constitution or constitute a serious violation of the law. The President cannot be held accountable for the conduct of the winners, even if they were specifically identified and the medallion for which they are found guilty, but, of course, much less if it is not so and only some general unproven guilt is spoken of. The constitutional charge must state the anti-constitutional conduct of the President. However, the constitutional charge does not specify in any way which concrete anti-constitutional conduct the President of the State is to have committed. The logic of the constitutional charges lodged follows the general conclusion that the President, by exercising his constitutional powers, violated 34 provisions of the Constitution when he awarded a distinction to a person who is generally known to have violated human rights in the previous totalitarian system. And today we hear that not only one thing would be enough to blame, but ten thousand, of course taken from the air, without any concrete indication and concrete documentation. For the applicants of the constitutional charge, everything is, however, generally known. It is not about concrete actions, it is not about who and when to do them, it is not about the causal link between action, the perpetrator and the consequences. For the general political debate, this may even be enough, but the constitutional charge of the President of the Republic is certainly not enough. The debate on the constitutional charge should not be the general politicisation and accusation they want and practice of members of the opposition. Such behaviour is unacceptable for a constitutional charge. If we still accept them as charges between parties and politicians in the National Assembly, we should not allow such conduct for the President of the National Assembly on constitutional charges. Now, with general accusations, without evidence, the President of the country is already being accused of serious violations, not to mention being falsely accused of completely unproven conduct. This is a new method of false accusations made without shame and evidence, which probably does not lead to the development of democratic rights and the rule of law in Slovenia. It is up to us, honourable Members and Members, at least Members and Members of the coalition, if you do not accept this from the two opposition parties, that we do not inherit the provocation offered and that we do not accept any general debate on the issues offered by the proponents in our work. That we may be able to keep our senses at least by not going into the debate about the past and avoiding being accused of how totalitarian or authoritarian the previous country was, how and when it introduced many of the elements of democratic relations, who and how much it contributed to social change, whether all the credit goes to some and so on. Note that the award has been awarded for the specific conduct of the medallion in the North. Consider the significance of this action in the period immediately prior to independence. I have not heard of anyone, nor of those who are not special advocates of the past, that the action itself by the majority does not constitute a contribution to democratisation, that it has indeed prevented the potential risk of putting an emergency situation in Slovenia as well, so that the processes of self-reliance could be stopped, and that we can therefore say that the North's action for Slovenian independence was a positive act, irrespective of the fact that you are the credit for the decision on this action and for its execution cannot be traced to the breast of the current opposition. Others were deserving of it and made decisions. The realization that positive movements in Slovenian politics are the result of many factors that have helped create the legal basis for constitutional change, for the resistance to large-scale Serbian centralism, including the North, for the first democratic multilateral elections, the 20th anniversary of which we will celebrate soon. There are still concerns that there is a positive attitude in the ranks of the Slovenian police towards the North, that the current police leadership is also involved in consolidating such an assessment and that the President of the country wishes to highlight it with his decorations. That this may be the very reason for the opposition and condemnations that the award of honour to this action, i.e. I understand it, triggered right-wing parties, the so-called spring party, and, unfortunately, very often Slovenian official policy, because it is very difficult and very rarely acknowledged that democratic changes in Slovenia have occurred non-violently, on an evolutionary basis and that the recognition of this fact should also result in the recognition that there is some legal and national continuity between the old and the new authorities in a certain sense. It would be time to stop arguing about these credits for the past. And today, Mr President Türk has made it clear how he assesses past history and that action by the North also falls within its framework as a positive act. These are issues which, unfortunately, we do not have a unified opinion yet, but we cannot unify them on such a constitutional charge, where we are trying to politically discredit the President of the State. These are not questions that we can resolve in the way that two opposition parties imagined. This difference should not result from the co-accusation or misunderstanding of different views, which, unfortunately, can lead to a debate on issues that are the content of a constitutional charge. If the proponents of the constitutional charge force such a debate, and in their introductions, they have begun to force it because they have shaken the charges themselves, which were real or semi-true, which had nothing to do with the time in which the award was made, many of them have talked about the very specific things of today, which have nothing to do with the constitutional charge. And all this creates the impression that it wants to provoke a debate on political issues and create new misunderstandings and disputes. Certainly, therefore, it was not the wish of the proposers to tackle the current challenges of the crisis, which is a key task of the coalition and the government, and I think that all other well-intentioned social factors are also. So let us focus on these tasks and let us put up a debate about past history. Let us reject without debate or with as little debate and infertile accusations as possible the proposed constitutional indictment and address the most important tasks ahead. This will be done by Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First, he asked for the floor on behalf of the motioners, John Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thanks again for saying that. First, let me express my regret that there is no President of the Republic here, that he was not in the Chamber even when we presented the constitutional indictment. Such conduct tells us a lot about how this representatively important function is performed in the country, and in some ways also coincides with that act, which is controversial and which has led to a constitutional indictment. The fact that the President of the Republic did not listen to the opening arguments probably also led to some of the evidentiary errors he had made in his performance. Thus, he argued, inter alia, that we should follow the agreement of the parliamentary parties to reach it in 1989 with plebiscite or that no one would exploit plebiscite for political purposes. There was no plebiscite at the time. There was no talk about it. In 1989 and late 1989, the then Union of Communists still condemned American imperialism and advocated a single Yugoslavia at its convention in Cankar’s home. The parliamentary parties' agreement on plebiscite was only a year later. If the President of the Republic listened, he could listen, and he would certainly not have made other such mistakes, which he also wrote in writing. It's a very important anniversary. To claim that the applicants have not submitted any evidence of a constitutional charge is, in fact, something that is not worth commenting on at all, as far as I can tell, it is ridiculous. We have put forward more than 20 annexes, which can be read by everyone, and in the text of the constitutional indictment there are also places where we refer to these annexes, and this is why every paragraph is justified by documentation. It is true that the work of the documentation did not want to be distributed, but it is now divided and you can also read it. This documentation is mainly located in the Archives of Slovenia, has been publicly available for years, many of it has been published in various publications, and some of these documents are also known by the President of the Republic. In contrast to the extensive justification presented by the applicants, the President presented only the explanations and the alleged formal proposals for these controversial decorations or, above all, for the controversial decoration of Tomaž Ertl and again deceived the public. It is true that the proposal to honor Ertle was signed by Milan Horvat, following my information, on an initiative that came from the Office of the President of the State, but not on his own initiative, although he, of course, tried to discredit it later, but not only did he not decide on this proposal, nor did he discuss it. He didn't have that on his agenda. The Commission responsible for recognition also did not decide on this in this organisation, which was established under the Statute for this purpose. In short, it was not a formal proposal by the Northern Veteran Association and the repetition of this lie is, of course, further to the credibility of the President of the Republic. Members of the board of directors who also made their views known publicly to those who wanted to read this could not have read it to the Governing Board of the North Association. Only after the award was given was the debate on this. In explanation of the order of the President of the Republic to honor Mr Ertl, he also wrote: "Tomaž Erl" - in short, the President of the Republic said how this distinction relates only to the action of the North. The explanation of the award also states: "Tomaž Ertl also participated in further independence in the Republic of Slovenia until the first parliamentary elections in 1990 after the appointment of the new government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of the year." And now I ask the President of the Republic and also you who are in this Chamber: Is it a silence of information on the fact that they will disarm the Slovenian territorial defence contribution to the further isolation of the Republic of Slovenia or is it treason? The Ertl medallioner was in office until 15 May 1990. The Yugoslav army began preparing the disarmament of the Slovenian territorial defence a few weeks earlier. Ertl himself said in his interview that they were covering all sources in Slovenia and in Belgrade as well as Armada, they said they knew about it. And it can be concluded from other facts as well. The Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia wrote in a report sent to the Assembly, which was addressed by the Assembly in July 1990, that no one had informed them that the disarmament of the Slovenian territorial defence was being prepared. So, neither does Ertl, even though he had six people in front of him with a strong cooperative network that had this information, of course. Whether he enlightened them or not, we don't know, but the official presidency said it didn't happen. Certainly there was no informed assembly, which had already been formed, and certainly no one who had been elected in the framework of the victorious DEMOS coalition was informed. So it is not only about the fact that the award was awarded to someone who was the head of a criminal organisation, as the Supreme Court says, but also about the perverse reversal of facts. Perverse distortion of facts! Someone who helped disarm Slovenia has successfully participated in the further independence of the Republic of Slovenia until the end of its term of office, as explained in the order of the President of the Republic to grant this award. The end of his term of office was also such that he refused to make the transfer. At the time when it was known that Slovenia was disarming, it did not know what would be the next Armada measure. To write down this sentence in explanation is really an unprecedented cynicism. I saw him for the first time today. I missed him. I don't know if he's ever been published before. Why, this is a special story to base on! Now, of course, it is understandable that the President here defends the perceptions, because this act is extremely controversial and as a matter of fact not only in the opposition, but also among many people in the second political field, who participated in the actual period of Slovenian independence and risked something there. And, of course, the President is not in a simple situation, he could have gotten out of it if, after we called him to reconsider and when he was asked to reconsider the virtually entire intellectual sphere in Slovenia, he somehow cancelled this distinction. Even the medallion himself said I wouldn't resist. Less than defending a contested decision by the President of the Republic, however, it is understandable that the criminal institution's inflexible defence is being defended. It was not a matter of any defiance of what the Constitutional Court had decided, you can read it yourself again - and also colleague Cukjat quoted it earlier, but I think that also colleague Žerjav - of what the Supreme Court wrote. The Supreme Court directly used the word "criminal" activity, an organization that carried out a criminal activity. It is clear from the documents accompanying the constitutional indictment that this organisation has also committed crimes. What else would it be if someone ordered their employees to plant a bomb in the space, a bomb that was to be detonated at 10 p.m. in the space where the committee meeting was scheduled to take place in Veliovac? The bomb exploded a little earlier, and there were fewer victims, but it was ordered to explode at 10: 00 p.m. when a meeting of municipal councillors was held below. Isn't that a crime? And if you read the documents that were submitted today, it was not the only such action organized by Ubba in Austria. She's organized three similar terrorist actions; you have the names of the people who did it. And the transposition shown in these minutes of the Council for the Protection of Constitutional Regulations in this regard. The President of the Republic, however, disputes the use of the word 'criminal', which is directly contained in the interpretation of the Supreme Court judgment, and in the word 'crime', even though it was a crime. What else is that? So, there has been no permanent defence of this criminal organisation, as we have experienced here today by the President of the Republic, in the last 20 years in Slovenia; I do not remember it. Even the members of this organization themselves were never capable of such a cramped defense, having at least a little bad conscience. There's nothing here. And that's extremely signifying, extremely illustrative. What probably affected the thousands or tens of thousands of people who accompanied this speech by the President of the Republic most was the fact that there was not even a little regret in his performance. At least if he said he apologized to those who had just felt hurt in that medal, even if it was that he had no purpose, it had happened unintentionally. I wish there was a slight regret about it. There was no trace of it! Tens of thousands of people live in Slovenia, who were directly affected or affected by their relatives, who did not take this award as a medal for the North action, which could be separated from other acts of the same person. And it is not a claim on behalf of the President of the Republic that it is not possible for him and that we do not report to him any specific violation of the Constitution, but that we are talking about the fact that the medallion violated the Constitution and that it should then be passed on to the President of the Republic, which is always individual. That's not true! If I were less arrogant and listened to my opening act, of course I couldn't read it. In the Constitutional indictment, it is very clear that I have made this explicit twice that we are in direct violation of Article 34 of the Constitution to the President of the Republic and in direct violation of most of the other articles in the second chapter of the Constitution. The direct violation of Article 34 of the Constitution was not committed by Ertl, it is the one who received the medal, but by the one who gave it. Because the award of this award to the former head of the secret political police violated the right to the personal dignity and security of thousands or tens of thousands of victims and their relatives. This is by the Constitution and by reason of the Constitutional Court a right that goes to the dead. The President also harmed the right to personal dignity of thousands, the dead, who were violated by Ertl’s organization. It won't be possible to get out of this, if you do, something that others have done is obvious to me. There is a direct violation of Article 34 of the Constitution. The other violations of the Constitution are indirect and we have also clearly written this. However, the violation of Article 34 is direct. The President of the Republic was also invited, I think, twice, to the Commission for Petitions, where the victims of the Judgment spoke about their experiences, where we heard extremely shocking confessions from when Ertl was the head of this organisation, from cases where he directly ruled on matters. The President of the Republic didn't even apologize for this meeting. The last meeting was boycotted even by all members of government parties who are members. At least read the magnetogram, then it will be harder to discuss some flat-screen readings. Hundreds of witnesses have come forward since this constitutional accusation was filed, or since this award was granted. It would be worth it to be published in a chamber. People who heard Ertle’s medaleer say arrogantly on television were sent to preach, and someone who had been wronged should come forward. Where's who? Hundreds of them came forward. Thousands more are alive, tens of thousands have died at that time. Not even half the words of regret have we heard from the President of the Republic about these people. Some incredible sublimeness, arrogance and appearance from a position of power; and I must also say, unfortunately, some fundamental perversion. The president spoke about how there is a Christian value to forgiveness and how we should forgive these things. Let me say that this forgiveness has, in a way, also happened by those who were particularly affected by this criminal act of the Judgment, which did not raise these questions and did not file any complaints. It's been 20 years. At that time, there was some forgetting, perhaps part of the planning, but virtually none of the directly affected had initiated criminal proceedings or were very rare, some of them against Ertl and others. Well, while the President is talking about how all our actions should be based on some kind of forgiveness - and in this case this has actually occurred in 20 years because no one has been punished or persecuted - it is obvious to the applicants of the constitutional charge in the same breath, "why haven't you initiated criminal proceedings if you think that you, Mr Ertl and similar, have done something wrong?" At the same time, it immediately threatens, with an accent, "but you must be aware that a false accusation is also a crime." This was an entirely unnecessary addition and indeed an expression of some special arrogance in this case. Someone can't afford to talk in the same breath about forgiveness and, at the same time, arrogantly mock the proponents of the constitutional charge, as if, "if all of this is true, what you're writing about, you'd put in a prosecution, why didn't you do it?" If you carefully read the divided written performance of the President of the Republic, you will find this enormous contradiction in this call. Whether this is due to some total moral confusion or to the gluing of various contributions made by some counselors who should go to some other school - I don't know. The fact is that this has been heard by many people and that this message was something that absolutely does not contribute to the cleansing of certain things in terms of values in Slovenia, which the President of the Republic also called on in the same breath. In addition to what we have presented as evidence, it is available in the Archives of Slovenia, despite the cleansing that has happened, as well as in the testimony of people, there is still a great deal of concrete evidence for every single sentence in this constitutional indictment. Below, we can present many of these if we hear again that nothing is justified and that it is spoken in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In addition to presenting the position of the DeSUS Group on the constitutional charge against the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danil Türk, let me add only a modest thought. There were elections, presidential elections, where the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired also showed plebiscite support to Dr. Daniel Türk for his election, because the party was also convinced that it was a real man of upright posture, a man who would be able to lead our country well, to represent it at home and in the world and also to represent citizens and citizens. We were sure of that. By electoral votes of all others, the President of the Republic was given the responsibility and the obligation to respect the constitutional order, to respect the rule of law and the rule of law, and at the same time he was given the responsibility and the possibility that in any act, such as the law and the Constitution, he would decide completely sovereignly, independently and that the discretionary rights of the President of the State were also exercised. In this way, the decision was sovereign and well-thought out by the President when he decided to give the silver mark to Mr Tomaž Ertl. This was, as he said, a judgmental decision. A decision based on an act and perhaps some action after the action of the North. It was then that Tomaž Ertl played a role of defence and protection, and with this action we are convinced that he has given one foundation stone and one fundamental act to the process of conquering our country and strengthening democracy to our country. And it seems important to us that this was his decision, which can be debated today - one way or another. The fact that these debates have repeatedly encouraged reflections on the work of the Judgment should, I think, be placed, for the time being, in the wake of history and should be dealt with in one way or another by historians, researchers and judges. In no way can this be part of the constitutional charge against Daniel Türk. We believe that the constitutional charge in this part is certainly incorrect, at least incorrect, unnecessary and inappropriate, because it is simply this right, the fundamental right of the President of the State, who took advantage of Tomaž Ertla's proposal to accept this highest distinction. Importantly, it is possible, or in between, between the lines that Tomaž Ertl received this highest recognition, the state accepted it and did not return it to the PVC bag, as it did in the past. So, once again, let me say that the DeSUS Group will vote against the constitutional charge because it is unfounded and, as I said, also inappropriate and incorrect. As far as the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia is concerned, then let me say that Dr. Danilo Türk is the President of the State, so far absolutely and fully justified our trust in the elections, doing the job properly, doing what we can only wish, and so far enjoying the full support and reputation of our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u163	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A few years ago, a bill on lustration was discussed in this Chamber. It was not adopted because of the very small majority of those who voted against. I was on my own during those days. I did not vote against lustration for ideological reasons; I voted against lustration because I was aware that the adoption of such a law would actually cloning the methods from which we wanted to finally emancipate ourselves and put them where they belong. So in some past, it was a mass violation of human rights. It is true that there have been moments of democratisation, but if there were no such system, even these democratic steps should not have to be taken, everyone could have a first, democratic system that would insure many people's fates. In short, there was no lustration, and as I would say, to the high officials of those machines nothing happened, absolutely nothing happened. But from here on out, you know, it's a big step! That's too much value, as you'd say. Now, the President of the Republic has also put this decision into one context of reconciliation, which I welcome, but then it is expected that this path of reconciliation will be completed, because it is long and very broad and I expect that this will be carried out consistently, if not another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u165	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I read the material for this proposal for the introduction of a constitutional charge, I always had a bad feeling that this style and this mentality, which stems from it, are already known, but from a period that is already very distant today. Today, when I listened to the proponents' introductory explanation, it became clear that the constituents of this proposal for a constitutional indictment were good students in this very long period of time. In a period for which I still sincerely hope today that it will not come back in the gravest of ways. Sadly, though, John knows what he has learned. Even more perverse and repulsive is the fact that this has in writing brought down the reflection and the result of the same methods that have been used in totalitarian regimes of ours, the past is now quite distant. Of course, no lesson from the chapter on human rights, the rule of law and democracy can help the proponents, but a lesson from the fundamental principles of constitutional and criminal law. Therefore, unfortunately, the President's attempt to present to the opposition a number of basic legal principles on individual responsibility, on the concrete causal link between the act and the consequence, on the prohibition of retroactivity, on the necessity of existence and evidence, on the basis of intent and so forth, could not be successful and its recommendation, and on the basis of requests that such exceptional legal remedies as the constitutional charge of the President of the Republic be used solely exceptionally, will not fall to fertile ground using at least a moderate dose of common sense. Clearly, any legal remedy based on false and distorted sub-menus is allowed to be used and abused in a political struggle only to achieve a concrete political objective. Therefore, the purpose is to devote resources. We've known that since Machiavelli moved on. And I once heard in the National Assembly that Machiavelli’s book was actually the most frequently rented book in the library of the National Assembly. That's a very good piece of information, I'd say. However, during a period of serious economic and social crisis, it is easier than at a time of prosperity to establish and maintain emergency situations in which some political factors are better found, are more capable of manipulating people and have well-trained supporters for these tasks. Unfortunately for all of this, we are wasting so much energy, time and money from taxpayers to accuse each other, to discredit political rivals, instead of pulling together the necessary forces and doing something more useful in Parliament to upgrade the rule of law, for example, for democracy and to create conditions for better economic development. An extremely unacceptable and unacceptable method is the one that you, with a pedestal advocate of human rights in the same breath, are willing to violate or deny human rights to those who disagree with them. This was also in this mandate on your part, dear opposition colleagues and colleagues, already much and much too much. And today it is. Well, there is no such thing as a god, and everything can't be allowed! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u167	Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Respectable. The President of the Republic here today said, "History has left us a hard memory." That's right. And what the President has done to honor the man who represents the symbolically darkest past and the darkest memory of our history means that he has put it back in our time. If we are even so legally sophisticating the prize, the non-reward, the merit, the evidence, and so on, yet the Uprising has become part of today, today, by the act of the President. So those of you who say we should stop dedicating ourselves to the past, but let's focus on the present, then you need to know that this one from the highest city of the country came again between us. Three fundamental objections have also been heard in public today. First, the President of the Republic can reward anyone he wants. That's what he said. Secondly: the President of the Republic awarded Mr Ertle one job and not for his entire past. And thirdly, the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, said this, so we who remembered the constitutional charge, and the President of the Republic here today said that the constitutional charge is legally unfounded, immoral and politically harmful. I'm sorry, none of these things are true! The President of the Republic can't reward whoever he wants, can't reward criminals, terrorists, or perhaps his favorite former employers. He can't if he doesn't want to get a constitutional charge; and he did it and he got it. It is said that the President of the Republic is not such a royal figure that anyone can be rewarded at any time and we must not say anything to him. Secondly, the President awarded Mr Ertle one job and not for his dark past. I'm so funny! Yeah, if he's done one job alone, doesn't his whole past tie him to it? At the same time, we have heard that this work is also quite controversial, for he eventually received a prize that could go directly to the police and far less to himself. So that's not true! And I think the action of the North, with this award that Ertl won, is literally mutilated. And thirdly, how did we remember the constitutional charge of how to judge the President - immorally! I think that in such a case the constitutional charge is legally justified, that we have tried to prove, you have documents before you, that it is politically necessary and that it is at the same time deeply moral for our society. For there is some consensus, which lasted twenty years, this consensus was silence after the Udba. We left it alone, there was no lustration. We left some things untouched and it was some quiet reconciliation that waited for it to actually happen over time. This thing is broken, you can't reward the Udba, this is where it all ends. And if we say so, that Mr Ertl was at some police action where he followed the orders of his superiors, yet we cannot deny that the entire past of the Udba came on a day. And something else tragic has happened; with a whole range of people from your political background and, of course, political parties, I have also spoken for the president here today. No one would personally reward Mr. Ertle. What a difficult psychological mission you're facing! They wouldn't reward Ertle. Do you know that you must defend a Judgment that you cannot defend if you are still so tense? The doctrine is not to defend itself! And intimately, no one would defend it, just as it was an untouchable area. There may be something else that matters. There have been many state medals, and many are now ashamed. They have won the Ertl Prize and the President of the Republic, Mr Danilo Turk, will join history as the one who gave the wedding prize to a man who should be forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u169	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! So, if you're wondering, he's a god. That is why, of course, we should not be allowed to do so. That is why we have decided to support the constitutional charge because the constitutional charge is so legally, politically and morally justified. Historian Granda also said that the further process of the constitutional charge is pure politics. This is justified by the fact that the Government in the National Assembly has an absolute majority and, of course, the opposition will not have enough votes for the success of the constitutional indictment. And he says, Dr. Granda: "With us, the rule of law and morality are nothing because we have more truths and more morals." So, we've found out lately that we have several countries. Those privileged and, of course, other ordinary citizens and citizens are subject to ordinary legislation and, of course, special lawyers' offices. So the thing is already lost in advance, says Granda, but Granda adds that when the constitutional charge was filed, the matter of history was more or less won. And I myself agree with such a justification. It wasn't a personal accusation made by the president of the country or by Dr. Danil Türk, but it was an accusation of an act he committed. And like the president, Dr. Daniel Türk, he spoke of forgiveness. I believe that tens of thousands of those who have been harmed by the Judgment have long since forgiven Mr Ertle, but their relatives cannot and must never forget all these horrors, never because of history, precisely because of the fact that something like this would never happen again. In view of the second round of presidential elections, when President Danilo Türk received 68% against Loizet Peterlet 32%, he was elected by many, I believe, also by this right political field, which is affected today, his human dignity is affected and I believe that many of these President Daniel Türk will also forgive his action, but the Slovenian people will not forget it. For history, this will always be the case. If you remember Mr Ertl's statement when he said in old Yugoslavia, he was afraid of the new country, he was afraid of my Slovenia, he was afraid of my country, he was afraid even by calling his colleagues, "Let's defend with all the means we have at our disposal!" Not with the political, with the weapons, with the sowing of death. He invited them because he had foretold that if some forces triumphed, not only would they be retired but they would even be hanged. So none of this happened. And to Mr Ertle today, when he enjoys and lives in my country, in my Republic of Slovenia, but I lay on my heart so much that he can say, "Thank you for everything you've done. I apologize for all the acts that have been done under the Udba that I have led. I'm ashamed." And an apology, the word "sorry" would probably be the least you could do. At the same time, either I'm supposed to return or say it's a confession to the Slovenian police, not to me, because it can't be because I just don't feel capable. No, because I just don't feel like the one who deserves it. I didn't! Maybe I've only taken one step in that action to make it right, to try to correct the actions that I've been behind for decades. And colleagues and colleagues. It would have been enough not to give such recognition to Mr Ertle, if it had been known, so to speak - what happened in Veliovac - and because it was known, even what happened with the destruction of the files. You don't have to commit five deadly acts for one, you can be sentenced to a maximum sentence for the first time. But in this case, of course, it's not a conviction, it's not that. It is a matter of all the actions listed, but it is enough already to destroy the file and thus make it impossible to identify the individual responsibility of individuals in this country who have even become rich and have them among the Slovenian tycoons today, of course, enough not to receive such recognition by the President of the State. And unfortunately, such acts once again share our small Slovenian nation. They are shared by the constitutional charge, the Slovenian nation shares, so what we discussed a few hours ago - the family code. Our citizens and citizens share the so-called two kinds of country, one for ordinary people and one for the so-called elite that works in networks that work in lawyers' offices. My colleagues and colleagues, today, I was once again shocked to learn that one of the entrepreneurs had taken his own life just because of such networking when he found out at the meeting yesterday that he would not get paid for his work in the Cologne. He couldn't resist this pressure. He left 50 employees, took his own life. Who's responsible for this?Oh, my God! Colleagues, this divides us and how and it is not permissible for my President of the State of the Republic of Slovenia to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u171	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I hope that this tragic event will not be condemned or blamed by this President of the Republic, but eventually by someone else. Different opinions, different views and different views can be found in the award of each award. This, after all, guarantees the right to freedom of expression and critical judgment. In those 20 years, especially since 1992, 1993, 1994, I myself had my opinions and views when some within the Ministry of Defence received high distinctions and were simultaneously suspected of participating in arms trafficking. All this, of course, is legitimate in a democratic society, is allowed. However, there is little political definition for the constitutional charge itself when legal instruments need to be used. However, I think and believe that the primary purpose of the applicants was not even to properly implement the constitutional indictment procedure of the President of the State, but to exploit and abuse this institution for the unfinished story of lustration, which is also confirmed today by the additional explanation of the applicant and from some of the debates that we have heard so far, but also by the healing of some of the personal injuries suffered by individuals, some of the visible political representatives of the current democratic authority, by the conduct and role they had in the previous system. I will also say something about this at the end of my brief contribution. I believe it's not easy for them to try to shut up or fabricate part of their lives after so many years. Therefore, I think it would be right for the first half of the night, before writing this constitutional accusation, to think about their actions and possible mistakes, and for the second half of the night, to think about foreign conduct and foreign mistakes. Then perhaps some assessments would be more balanced and more credible, although they do not judge and have no direct connection with the subject, today's hearing of the constitutional indictment of the President of the State. In doing so, it must be admitted that it is still true that no one is safe from death and decorations. For we do not face for the first time in these 20 years a democratic Slovenia with the problem of awarding medals. I would have reminded you of a few tens and more years ago when some citizens returned high state decorations in inappropriate packaging, "Bat" bags. That is why I have the feeling that Slovenian policy is sick for some kind of merit and medallion syndrome. And this disease isn't even so innocent, because it's been going on for a long time. Whether today's debate on this constitutional accusation by the President of the Republic will welcome this, I am very skeptical. There will always be a moment and an opportunity for healing on such occasions when decorations are awarded. In short, the debate so far does not convince me to deal with the constitutional charge against the President of the Republic, on the contrary. This institution has been misused through this to enforce lustration aspirations and to politically assess and evaluate the past and conduct of some persons in this past, not all persons, but some others could be evaluated and evaluated. This is also proved by the accompanying material referred to and derived from the archives of the Republic of Slovenia and a good part also from the archives of the former Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia. All well and well, but it is not entirely correct not to attach to this composition or to this group of documents also some documents on the bodies of certain other republican bodies of social political organisations, in which also some eminent members of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, who did not have a seat on the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, sat in the Socialist Union, the Union of Socialist Youth and elsewhere. Therefore, I think that one of these prominent members may also be hurt because he is not listed in these documents, he is a member of the Union of Communists, Ivan, and he complained in every way possible when he was tried in 1983, 1984 to be removed from the membership of the Union of Communists. This just proves how important it was to be a member of the Communist Union if you wanted to be an official in another sociopolitical organization, such as the Socialist Union or the Alliance of Socialist Youth. That was the time. And that's what people were like back then. Even those who today are the biggest critics of the previous system and the previous organisation. And just for the end, something else that I intend to say for a while in the National Assembly, but I'm going to take this opportunity today to give my own view or look at my own generation for that past time. I don't come from a family that would be part of an avant-garde working class. I come from a simple working family, but I've always spoken and I'm still saying today that I'm from the so-called "happy generation". Why am I from a happy generation? Since we were able to go to school, we were educated where we wanted to go and what we wanted. When we finished school or not, we got a job. The one who wanted to work got a job. And when we got a job, more or less, if we were as good as we were, we got an apartment. Ladies and gentlemen! My children and today's young generation of these opportunities, and they don't have it. So I will always say, despite all the traumas that have been in the past, I am from the so-called "happy generation".
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u173	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u174	Your Honor! If we could only have guessed at the resolution on European consciousness and the condemnation of totalitarianism, it was becoming increasingly obvious even when the garage affair broke out, and today it was obvious to everyone that there had been a significant strategic shift on the transition left. What's the strategic shift? The former aggressive password of the transitional leftist Stop the right has apparently replaced the depressing password of the transition leftists: "Stop the truth!" For only this password today is reflected in the words of the first of the transitional leftists, who honored us with exactly one hour's presence, as of course in the debates of those who spoke. You said a lot of people, we can't look back, we don't have to look back. Even today, we have heard persecution, and it is Christian to forgive. It is Christian to forgive, ladies and gentlemen, but forgetting is stupid and irresponsible. History teaches that those who forget are doomed to repeat history. What was all silenced today? Why? I can say the password is, "Stop the right hand!" on the transition left replaced the password Stop the truth! what has happened to you recently. The best evidence is in the words of Mr Türk, who began his story as follows: "We have the organs of legal judgment. We must allow them to judge without hindrance." And in the same breath he continued: "so reject today's proposal for judgment." [[...]] Wait, that's what this is all about. The proposal before you is, we do not judge today, but the proposal is to allow the Constitutional Court, as the competent legal authority of legal judgment, that is exactly what Mr Türk himself was talking about, to judge. So if your actions were in line with your words, then surely the President would have asked you to vote in favour of this judgment, and your efforts in this direction would have continued. Unfortunately, they went in the opposite direction. This, of course, only shows that there is still the only distinctive red thread of transition leftists, a huge difference between words and actions. So I'm not surprised by your current password. Stop the truth! Indeed, if we are talking about the facts to which you referred, and if I quote one well-known philosopher, there would already be great progress if we agreed on the facts in this room, then the fact that the act of awarding a medal to the Head of the Udba or political police during the existence of the totalitarian regime would be explicitly directed both against the decision expressed at the referendum for inclusion in NATO and also at the referendum for inclusion in the European Union. For modern Europe, a modern united Europe is based on the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Iron Curtain, those that spread from Szczecin in Poland to Trieste in the Gulf of Markets, as the author of this concept said, and, of course, on the consistent respect for human rights. And it's on this consistency that a sitting transition left on the line falls. This was witnessed by your boycott of the committee responsible for the field of human rights in the National Assembly only a day ago and even more so by your absence from the only national organised ceremony in memory of all victims of totalitarian regimes, all totalitarian regimes, especially those on Slovenian soil from 1945 to 1990. This absence of you and your current password Stop the truth! Witness that you remember very well what was happening and what someone was doing, and the bad news is a terrible thing, ladies and gentlemen. However, the European norm contained in the European Resolution on the condemnation of totalitarian regimes and European consciousness, and also in the relevant, recent adoption of the European Council resolution, is crystal clear. The European norm is to honor the victims of totalitarian regimes and not to reward those responsible for systematic, deliberate human rights violations. That is why this action is totally non-European, in conflict with all the values that we have decided plebiscitefully when deciding for Slovenia, for the European Union and for joining NATO, and therefore the current proposal when it comes to the decision of the National Assembly is undoubtedly justified. It's justified, ladies and gentlemen, and it's legal. In fact, if I limit myself only to the transfer that we witnessed at the outset, even when there was a mockery of the three articles of the Penal Code, which are listed in the motion for an accusation before the Constitutional Court, an essential part of the decision was silent. Those three articles of the Penal Code are listed in conjunction with the relevant article of the law governing the award of decorations. And what this article is saying, which was of course not by chance, because it is not a real ignorant person, silenced to say: "...it gives a silver order for credit for exceptional work and merit in the security, defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia." However, the best evidence is that the person who received this award did not inform anyone of the planned disarmament of the State of Slovenia, even more, even though she did not want to participate in the handover of the business, and thus deliberately violated her work obligations for Slovenia at the most sensitive moment. And that makes sense to look at what the Penal Code says about it. And what's interesting is that there can't be an excuse for the principle that if there wasn't a crime back then, there can't be. You know, the Penal Code already had exactly the same provisions as it does today when it comes to the crime of treason, when it comes to the crime of attacking the independence of the state and, of course, the crime of sabotage. If I quote only a key article: "The citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who tries to bring the Republic of Slovenia into subjection or dependence against another country shall be punished by imprisonment from one to ten years", and the same as when we speak of sabotage: "If someone who does so in a disguised, insidious or other similar way causes harm to the State authority in the performance of his duty..." and so on, and the punishment envisaged is the same. The fact that the key information to avoid the underlying, which also requires a work obligation, is that it is normal to transfer transactions, which is evident and verifiable. Here are the facts, ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia's most sensitive moment, when it was clear that a plan for accounting with Slovenia is being prepared, it has all these elements that we are talking about. And of course, the excuse to say: Yes, who was legally condemned?!!, in such a case it is irrelevant. We're not accusing whoever did this at this point. These actions, as far as I know, have long been obsolete according to the rules in force. Earlier, some of them, which I will talk about, would have been difficult to prove, since they were not public documents that are now available, now that they are outdated, it is no longer possible to reach a verdict, but then it is unsustainable to reward such acts. And what action is this, ladies and gentlemen? Just a few quotes from the minutes of the National Security Council when it comes to the issue of terrorism. He carried out an action on the monument, mini-telephone, tried to poison the deep lake, blew up the electricity in Pliberk, among his colleagues, after radical actions, the purchase of explosives of the temperamental mechanisms and the material for the lubricating actions were most exhibited by you and you and most of them also participated in three actions carried out with the knowledge of the SDV and with technical support, ladies and gentlemen, with the knowledge of SDV and with technical support. Action in Grabstein, action in Kapla, action with Lady Sveta. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about what the whole democratic world is fighting today, about terrorism. Moreover, in the part about the situation in the Austrian Koroška, it is a deliberate, pretentious spread of intolerance between the two nations, which is not only an act rejected, but also under international law and if you also wish to commit a crime under the Slovenian Constitution and constitute in itself a grave violation of human rights. A person who has been at least objective, if not already in any part subjectively responsible for such acts, shall be rewarded with merit. What absurdity! The person who, by abandoning his actions, has caused Slovenia to be more threatened has exposed to threats from another country, in a silliness way, by silence of key data, i.e. sabotage, is rewarded. That's the logic of the story we're talking about ourselves. And when you talk about the prosecution of crimes, our courts, you know that they are judged in a way that when they judged the acts committed against civilians, human rights violations are obvious, recorded, they ruled that JLA was not the enemy army of Slovenia until October 1991. Or, if you want to see how other state institutions operate when it comes to the issue of political genocide, a crime that is not old enough at all, it did not want to be heard by persons who were still alive, it was specifically Mr Mitja Ribičic. For this reason you can only imagine how much trouble we have when we defend the reputation of the state of Slovenia in the world, for which this is something that is simply not understandable. I would like to remind you that the Ljubljana City Authority, with Jankovic's principle, celebrated Hitler's birthday collectively, by announcing the appointment of a street after another notorious dictator, who also has 10,000 victims on his conscience. If we could try to turn things around at the time, so much so that at least we stopped the critics at the expense of the country as a whole, you know, because it's a one-way street leading to the biggest cemetery in the country, so it's Hitler's birthday for some kind of symbolic act. This action, when everyone asks you, wait, but it was not Slovenian KGB, Slovenian STASI, and you are honoring this, it is simply not possible to explain. You can't defend it. Nobody understands it anymore. But all of us look at each other only with laughter. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to tell you that, for the last time in Brussels, I have had the opportunity to make sure that not only in the institutions of NATO but also in the institutions of the European Union, they are now asking what is the matter with Slovenia. I spoke to one who was from the former East German, you won't believe an explicitly leftist party. And he said that something like this about them to honor the former boss of STASI would never come to mind. Moreover, I could once again receive confirmation that certain Slovenian comrades have tried to obtain some support within the socialist, greater international framework for this award of a medal to the former Head of the Udba, and that they have been categorically rejected, that the fundamental values advocated by the European Union, even the European Union, have united a united Europe, a modern Europe, as we know it today, have absolutely nothing in common. This action has not only been rejected in Slovenia, but is also rejected by the modern European left. It is simply not possible to put this in the value framework of a modern united Europe, as it has emerged from the fall of totalitarianism in Europe. For the end, maybe that's something else to consider. Do you realize that your vote, when you last examined the law on deleted, so-called deleted, and not at all, rejected the amendment in order to at least eliminate the aggressors from those who can achieve some of the rights to obtain compensation, achieve all that this law brings to them. Therefore, to exclude at least the occupiers, that this action is not in fact any different from that of the former Head of the Udba and that it is two sides of the same non-democratic and non-European policy, which is simply not a couple in Europe. I am just sorry that Parliament is also trying to limit itself to Parliament when it comes to trying to distribute some material. Parliament, it was once said, should be a place of freedom of public expression, not a place of restriction of the public word. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when you decide to do so, take into account what has been added in this paper, because we have not been able to obtain these materials before. Note, too, that the consistency of respect for human rights is reflected in actions. That there is not only one point in this event that bears witness to disrespect, that it is what happened in the Devil's Cave - you have all been able to see about the cut-off whales of young girls [[I showed the picture recently in Parliament, I can show it again]] - that it's so talk about being a second-class topic and then trying to get the blame for this talk to the press, something that would in itself require a constitutional accusation. For the consistency of respect for human rights, ladies and gentlemen, begins with those who have been deprived of all human rights, including the fundamental right to life, and who can no longer defend themselves. When it comes to them when it comes to this issue, Europe does not know any double criteria. The European norm is the honor of victims. However, the Slovenian norm is that we have a positive attitude towards our country. And the value of patriotism will also be shown by pressing the button today. And I say that to whom it is sincere to his country as a democratic country, he will support the proposal for a constitutional indictment, which is fully justified, based on facts and arguments and written materials; some of them, including those relating to terrorism, are, for the first time, shown in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u175	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must agree with the statements made by the President of the State of Danilo Türk before our meeting today: "The constitutional charge is an extremely serious remedy, which is used in extremely serious cases. And where such infringements are reported, strict legal criteria must be in force to assess the legal basis of the charges." Of course, these facts, which we are placing in the light of the reasoning we have today as the basis for determining whether we are going to decide on such an accusation by the President before the Constitutional Court or not, are in itself giving an answer in that the applicant has already stated in the argument of the proposal that there is a violation of the 34 articles of the Constitution. Of course, we expected from the materials that for each of these articles we would get a clear indication of the infringement, the act that caused the infringement and the consequences that this infringement has caused. I agree with myself, it is right not to forget those events from which history has to be taught. I have no problems here for a simple reason, because it is wise to learn from history. And I am sure that the description of the events that have been defined as human rights violations should not be forgotten in such a light that from actions that we cannot influence today, we can learn from this by being wise in this house in decisions that we can influence. And today we have quoted Article 14 of the Constitution, equality before the law, not only within this point, but also within the point we have discussed earlier. And if we have learned anything from history, it would be very true that in the decisions we make in new laws, we do not violate Article 14 of the Constitution, that is equality before the law. However, I think that this morning we have heard a great deal of arguments that, of course, this article in eliminating the discrimination referred to by the Constitutional Court, we do not understand, as if the memory of events from the past at this point of experience, as a guide, as a guide to good action on the basis of bad deeds, of course in the past, does not benefit us in this decision. It is very bad to report to the Slovenian public that today's proposal for a constitutional indictment is a means to talk about events that need to be talked about or should be talked about if there are still undisclosed facts, facts that we want to have a relativised relationship with. But if we are talking today about the constitutional decision of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, then questions that are being clarified in history are of course not the right place to abuse it under this constitutional decision. Here, too, the question is very clear whether an accusation can be used without clearly realizing the consequences of such an accusation. I do not think that, of course, the responsibility of this house to the institutions of the State and the President as the highest institution, as the directly elected role of this country, would require a very serious consideration of how we will deal with this institution. And if today we spoke of the need to respect personal dignity, I wonder, of course, whether it was a personal dignity to have received this book, which came here today at the time of the President's speech, when he justified the reasons and rejected the proposal for a constitutional decision. Was it dignity and respect for moral standards, personal dignity, that it was not possible to express respect for the President of the State when he entered our home? Of course, let us all think about this, because in this way we are giving a message to the Slovenian public, whether we are overcoming a dignified attitude towards the highest institutions of this country. How can we expect positive feedback from our citizens and citizens if we are not able to do so or have very big problems in doing so? Of course, I myself will not support the justification of this proposal for the constitutional accusation of the President of the Republic, because I believe that the President of the Republic has more than correctly reasoned everything that has rejected the applicant's statements on this charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u177	Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At the outset, I would like to say that there are no arguments to speak in favour of a constitutional charge. In my brief presentation, however, I would like to focus mainly on three things. The first is the duality of the applicants. This is reflected in human rights concerns, with the applicants forgetting the fundamental essence of human rights, that is, universality. Today we have witnessed this duality in this hall. When we talked about same-sex partners when we talked about the family code, the following words were used: unnatural, perverse, mental illness, and not to mention any other comparisons that are at the limit of reason. On the one hand, how can only one group of people be recognized and denied basic human rights to others. Another time. International reputation. This mantra repeats the Slovenian Democratic Party in every case. So that I don't think about it, three cases. Afera Patrija, quote: "The reputation of the state of Slovenia has been stifled, which has been built with great effort since the independence of Slovenia in 1991. He is also the representative of Finland in the eyes of the Slovenian public, etc. "A petition of Slovenian journalists, I quote the president of the SDS: "If they feel that they are benefiting from the defamation of the Slovenian government abroad, then they do so, irrespective of the collateral damage, which in this case is called Slovenia's reputation just before the greatest historic challenge of independence." Third case, I'm sure you'll guess what it's about. The president of the SDS also said that he asked the criminals, quote, "Have they found the one who stole this dispatch that caused him to suffer the international reputation of Slovenia?" There is no case where the Slovenian Democratic Party does not care about the international reputation of Slovenia. I'd say good-bye if it was a matter of genuine concern, but it's not going to work. The international reputation is operated on as if it were something we put a little on bread. You can't say how concerned you are about the international reputation of Slovenia, but if you beat it yourself. Today, the President of the Republic has provided very specific information. Throughout the history of the United States, there have been three cases of the so-called impeachment and the history of the United States knows no successful vote of impeachment. In two cases. This is Johnson and Clinton, the House of Representatives, who accused the president, and the Senate pardoned them. In one case, however, the President's resignation occurred before the indictment was made. So in the entire history of the United States of America 3, in our short history of independent Slovenia, only the SDS managed to write 4 constitutional charges. I think that says a lot. What is the purpose of today’s constitutional charge? My personal opinion is that only one. This is the political propaganda of SDS. This is also evidenced by what one of the speakers has already said before me, that during the speech of the President of the Republic one reading was shared by the Members of Parliament. In other words, it was shared by SDS. In order not to be mistaken, this reading was not shared by the services of the National Assembly, but by the SDS. Why am I exposing this? This book is supposed to happen to be published by a company whose co-owner is SDS. Now that's the Ipes data, but maybe it's a conspiracy, maybe it's a mistake. Inadvertently, just by chance, there is also a democracy here. Now I wonder if this is the same democracy that has been dealt with by the press' Honorable Judgement. Why is that? Because they found plagiarism between the payer Slovenian Week, Express and weekly Democracy. Just by chance, the weekly Democracy issues a company co-owner of SDS. In case it's not a conspiracy or a mix-up. And here comes or asks me a rhetorical question. Is there any money left from the freebies? And one last thing. Today, the President’s attitude in this Chamber has been demonstrated by the proponents by their conduct and conduct. This President is neither left nor right, President of the Republic of Slovenia. When one of the opposition MPs has cleverly pointed out that the President, when he is no longer president, will be what he was. No, it won't. He will be former President of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Yes, here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u180	Now the last two supporters of the ruling coalition have actually spoken about the damage caused by this act for the state of Slovenia and to which we have pointed out in this paper. I suggest you once again invite the President of the State to join us, that would be the only decent thing to do with the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u181	Mr Grimes, this is not a procedural proposal. Mr President has been invited, he has done his duty, as he has assessed, and this is not a procedural proposal. We have no basis for him. Even if that's what you think it is. Thank you very much. You don't have another word, Mr. Grimes. Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In my firm belief, our President of the Republic is not a problem. The problem is that the applicants who firmly sat in the chairs show that they do not respect the institutions of the President of the country when the current President entered. They remained on the ground, where they pushed down their policy, the conduct within which lies and insinuations and structures accuse not only the President of the Republic, but also the Government, most ministers, finally their friends and acquaintances, if necessary, and if they do so. The behaviour of the applicants is subversive, harmful and dangerous because it shows the determination to use all means to regain power, which, in the previous term, has hit their heads too much. The legal and formal crumbling in the form of a constitutional accusation by the President of the Republic proves that the voters want to convince voters that everything is wrong in the Republic of Slovenia, including the wrong President of the Republic, because it is not theirs, of course, and everything from the Government down. The problem of proposing is not just this. I am sure that they are in pain that the President of the State for undisputed merit, when preventing the rally of truth, awarded Mr Ertl as one of the members of the North organization, because the credits for Slovenia's independence should only start in 1991 and what was before, of course, cannot be true, because then someone else could have the credit. This was proved by a supporter of this political option, which sparked this accusation when he said in a television talk that nothing that happened before 1991 should be celebrated. As if a man came from another planet into the desert of the earth and then life began, then things began to work, including the things that deserved, then the first and last heroes were born, not before or after. Of course, this cannot be accepted. If Mr Janez Janša had poured all his bile on the President of the Republic because of Mr Ertl's honour, which he himself said he had arrested, he would have understood that all his members of the Group had followed this headlessly. But it is already a little more embarrassing that the pot has been added by the Slovenian People's Party. This between people and voters will not be without consequences, for if the same thinking people appear, they always support if they are stronger on that side. I think this whole thing is a political circus from day to day. It's about getting political points and nothing else. If they are, of course, and if the citizens are going to inherit such rebates as we witness in this mandate, when the affairs are so-called, unnecessary meetings of the authorities of the National Assembly and the National Assembly itself, then of course there is no help for them. God will thus not be able to help them, for John Janša wrote that he was not. Now, with regard to a united Europe that is supposed to condemn such things, I must say that united Europe is very inclined to account for and condemn totalitarianism, including to forget that the 'democratic' part of Europe, I think of the winners of World War II, has shot thousands of prisoners of war, and what a million of them have left to die of hunger and disease along with the Rhine, and that has never been talked about and no one has ever been hurt by this great stain of that time for what we call a united and advanced Europe today. Of course, I disagree with such things. But as for the love of the country, the one who loves it, not the "how" according to the president of the country, in the way that gentlemen do, you should be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday at the Institute of the Affairs of Parliament you warned me in a counter-business manner, but now, Mr Vice-President, you did not react when Member Znidaršič accused us of launching affairs that are not. The garage affair and Baricevic, we didn't fire it, you triggered it in coalition, and this affair happened. And Mr. President, when he accuses us of being false and shows us with his finger for what happened on his side, please warn the Member of Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u185	Mr. Jerovšek, I was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u186	It's so unworthy. [[...]] He also accused us of being unworthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u187	Mr Jerovšek, I was very kind to you and I allowed you to say everything you wanted, but I have nothing to do procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u188	Please give a warning to Ambassador Znidaršič, who accuses us of what we are not guilty of.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u189	because such statements made by Mr Žnidaršič are on your side as much as you wish. [[...]] The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. A replica? Yes, Mr. Žnidarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek has mentioned me. Shame on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u191	Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. Lately, it's a very popular phrase: "Everything is allowed." One of them wrote it down, others from this party are making it happen, and the constitutional charge that we are discussing today is the application of this belief that everything is permitted. I think that this constitutional charge must be viewed as the President of the State has said that this proposal is legally unfounded, morally unacceptable and politically harmful. In his address or response to this question, the President of the country also asked which actions in our immediate past should draw moral strength and political maturity in order to achieve the necessary moral cohesion. In my opinion of the past, the North action is certainly such an event that is cohesive and when I looked again at the order on the award of the medal of the Republic of Slovenia, Tomaž Ertlu writes: "For outstanding work and merit in the security and defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia during the North action "and that it is a medal of the silver order for the merits." On the one hand, there is no justification for anything other than the action of the North. The decision of the President of the State and the events of the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, where we have also discussed this award, has been repeatedly underlined that the decision to be distinguished under the Act on Medals is a matter of the President of the State. Today, however, the President of the State has again pointed out the circumstances in which the decoration can be withdrawn. But what is particularly noteworthy is that, on behalf of the president of the SDS party, he referred to the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and so justly offended that some of us who are members and members of the Commission did not want to participate in the agenda, but the truth is that the President, on the day of the regular meeting, sent an invitation in the late afternoon, is late Friday afternoon, for a meeting on Monday at nine. And let him tell himself that we didn't come because we didn't have the invitations or the materials. In addition, Madam President, after one of the Commission's petitions and human rights meetings and equal opportunities as President of the Commission, said on behalf of the working body of the National Assembly, she called on citizens and citizens of Slovenia to send testimony to the Commission on what had happened in the past. Very interesting. Four testimonies came in. Interestingly, two of the witnesses mentioned how you were someone, and this is SDS, who dares to talk about the testimony when this party should have said a lot about the Ubaba.net files and what else and how there an anonymous letter could not exactly go past how everyone in their family probably has someone who can also be told something about his past actions. And there were two testimonies that really talked about the tragic experience of the past. But then miraculously all this stopped, and now I hear from SDS President Ivan Janša that you have hundreds of such testimony. This is an example of the abuse of the working body, because the invitation was made on behalf of the working body, the presidential function, and now Mrs Eva Irgl imagines that this is her private material, and in one of the weeks in Slovenia, she has also announced that she will issue this material in a special book. Well, I thanked those who shared this book today for their kindness because I noticed an invitation to pre-order this book. It could be obtained in advance for €13. Well, now you've divided it into reading, and I don't know what right you shared it with the President of the country. The disrespect of the institution of the President of the State is obvious. If it were merely disrespect, perhaps this could be attributed to poor education and non-control of the bonton. But this is something else, a deliberate attempt to undermine confidence in the Institute of President of the State. Before that, you have done this very effectively with the Ombudsman, undermine confidence in the judiciary, undermine trust in all institutions, including the Court of Auditors, the Information Commissioner and so on. Now, dear colleagues, you will claim that you are doing all this for the good of the Slovenian people. God help us!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u194	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Some in the ruling coalition are indeed imagining that the Human Rights and Petitions Commission was their property, even so far as they imagined when they were some months ago, I think it was Mr Magajna, who broke into the President's office and called the Commission together in a few hours with the assistance of the President of the National Assembly, and there was nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u195	Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u196	He's the President of the Republic, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u197	Did you report a break-in?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u198	The President of the Republic is, in accordance with his position under the Slovenian Constitution, the institution which must act in a coherent, not exclusive and not divisive manner. The President's rulings must not be such as to raise doubts about his bias. The President must be the president of all, regardless of their political or other affiliation. Was that in the National Assembly today this picture of the President of the Republic, I ask you. However, we have witnessed several times in the past with Dr. Daniel Türk that, through his actions, he has demonstrated that he is distinctly a member of the option under which he has been crippled in the former regime, and this is to the detriment of an objective and independent state in matters of importance for the construction of the rule of law. Today is so much more than yesterday. How else to understand the fact that he enjoys the trust of a person who has fully protected the former totalitarian regime has been guided by the Udba, who has proved to be a violation of fundamental human rights and who has been granted State recognition, but does not enjoy the trust of the person who has built the Slovenian state, actively participated in its independence and the establishment of democratic standards and mirrors it by failing to sign his appointment as Ambassador after all previous procedures. And without any explanation. How can we understand the indignation and even the insulting attitude of the President of the Republic in the event of the discovery of the mass grave of the thousands of innocent victims who were buried alive in the grave? How do we understand the unwillingness to share the fate of the nation in times of crisis and instead to afford an expensive luxury two-day flight to the Balkan area from the taxpayer's money? How do we understand the arrogance of his response, the cynical response to the constitutional charge filed for his act, which symbolically magnifies crime? It is understood, Your Honor, perhaps only in the spirit of the river: 'The State, this is me', a long-lived absolutist view that has nothing to do with parliamentary democracy. Even today, Dr. Danilo Türk has not failed these restraints. The President of the Republic is not a state, but he represents it. We are citizens and citizens. The President must act for our common good and in accordance with our expectations. Can the President of the country therefore afford decisions which plebiscite citizens plebiscite? He can't. Since such conduct is fundamentally contrary to the constitutional provisions which state that the President is their representative, that is, the first of the same. Today, the president here, in the National Assembly, has proven once again that he does not consider himself the first of the same. He showed an underestimating attitude towards this House and to the Institute of Constitutional Accusation because he limited his presence to what he was supposed to say and leave. He did not listen to the constitutional charge and did not listen to further arguments. At the same time, he had much to say about the rule of law and the fact that this and the law applied equally to everyone. In the country of law, respected, the accused must attend the hearing from the beginning to the end. Privileges are not recognised by anyone, nor does the President of the State. The material situation was also interesting. The services allowed the materials of the President of the State to be distributed to Members of Parliament, and the material further submitted by the drafters of the constitutional indictment was not, so we were forced to distribute it ourselves. And when we talk about respect and that some of us sat on chairs when the president came and left this National Assembly, see if someone loses respect because of their unacceptable conduct, then it is no longer possible to show him respect. Whether the constitutional charge is justified or not cannot be decided by the President or by the National Assembly. We think that the well-founded, ruling coalition is the opposite, the same president. And we based it, obviously you haven't read it, so we've given you the additional material to have an even better chance of reading it, in all respects, just like the Constitution, the law and the rules of procedure, and we've specifically based it on that point where it's a direct charge and a direct violation of article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether the constitutional charge is justified or not shall not be decided on the basis of Article 109 of the Constitution by the accused, in which case the President, or by the Constitutional Court, who may determine the grounds for the charge or the accused's exemption. Today, however, in one part of its implementation, the President also put himself before the Constitutional Court. Thus, at the symbolic level, the President stood up to the Constitution and the law, as he stood up to the Constitution and the law in awarding the medal to Tomaž Ertl. I must say, I am surprised by the opposition and opposition of some members of the ruling transitional left in handling this constitutional charge. In this House today, in high positions, people sitting in high positions also in the former non-democratic regime, which marked the anniversary of plebiscite last December in this house, said that the contribution of Demos to independence was comparable to the contribution of the then communist authorities, which made it possible and Demos carried it out. About what it looked like, you can see in annex 22 of the material, where the then President of the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, in a special letter to Kučan, Stanovnik and Marinc, one year after the opening of proceedings against the Quartet in 1989, reveals the essence of the strategy of the then leadership and says: "The only solid basis must also be to define that we are equally decisively fighting on two fronts, Milosevic and his concept of Yugoslavia and the opposition in Slovenia." And these guidelines were followed faithfully by the President's medaleer. And what is the idea of a country in which its President in 2009, with a national decoration, is a person who is the personification of a totalitarian regime that has systematically violated human rights, including the fundamental ones. The award should be awarded to Mr Ertl for the North Action, which is a medaleer, as evidenced by the documents, as well as the then Secretary of the Interior did not understand as a contribution to the independence of Slovenia and the construction of democracy, but as protection of the then non-democratic authoritarian authority. And that fact, at least as a result of his statements of thoughtfulness, was also realized by the President of the State when he awarded him the medal. As a result, his responsibility is greater and no less. Thus, the President of the State knowingly granted the national medal to someone who knowingly violated human rights. It appears from the documents that he was consciously acting against self-reliance. The national award for exceptional work and credits in the security and defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia was awarded to a man who still has democratic values abroad today because he worked in another value system. The President also violated Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia directly and gravely. In explanation of the Supreme Court judgment of 23. 5. 2002 is written down, which has already been said and read several times. On the basis of what is written in this judgment, it is clear that the Resurrection was a criminal association that systematically and deliberately violated human rights and that Mr Tomaž Ertl had been at the top of this service for many years. However, the person who was informed in May 1990 that the disarmament of the Territorial Defence was being prepared did not inform the competent authorities in due time, which would have condemned treason in every democratic system, Dr. Danilo Türk awarded a state award for outstanding work for the security, defence and protection of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an insult to the many citizens of this country and the cynicism of its kind. The President of the Republic, because of the type of action, and in particular because of the last decision to honor a person who is a symbol of the self-sustainment processes, no longer enjoys the necessary authority to be enjoyed by the President of the State. At a time when the executive branch is increasingly dealing with itself and the affairs that it is producing to a large extent, Slovenia would need a president with authority, a man who connects and does not separate. So the responsibility of the rulers is great. If, at all costs, you want to prevent the Constitutional Court from deciding on the President's constitutional charge, which, on a daily basis, loses more authority than is necessary to perform such a function, you will also have to take responsibility for the further erosion of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have a feeling that you're dreaming at night of what kind of affair you'd be cooking to the current government to bring it down as soon as possible so you'd rise to power again. But today, in my opinion, you've done one nasty thing. You have distributed this book, which I will return to you, and put it in your archives, because in the way that you have distributed it today, Mr Germich has already spoken about, it is a shame for the National Assembly. Not being able to say what you want is democratic, but that you are not capable of enough culture to respect the Institute of the President of the Government, if not already, is really sad. Sad to be destitute. I mean, you really think you're very important and very big. You're looking for other people and you're slandering everyone else just to hide what you have on your own, the butter. I am sure that you still have a number of such and different matters in your direction, with which you will be surprised, I hope that at the end of yourself, and all of this is, in my opinion, more directed towards preventing the work of Parliament, the work of the Government and pointing to this government and Parliament, how incompetent and how it all goes "sugrund" and I think it is only your intention to take advantage of the President of the State, but, of course, as I said, it is extremely ugly. I am personally very proud of this President of the country because the President of the State has endured, the citizens have given him a lot of support, with competition he has literally swept away and today he has not offended anyone in Parliament, he said what he had to say. In all his speech, he showed his greatness. He didn't swear against yours, not to tell you what the charges were. What are your accusations, I will read to you, quote Dr. Ivan Kristano, professor of law at the University of Ljubljana: "Assessment of constitutional charges. The analysis of the constitutional charges brought against the President of the Republic of Türk leads us to three conclusions. The charge is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, is not legally substantiated, there is no evidence that is necessary under the principles of criminal proceedings to prove that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution or has violated the law worse. The indictment is not an amended legally based act to prove the President's violation of the Constitution and a worse breach of the law, but is a political pamphlet aimed at ideologically condemning the President of the State and the ruling coalition. The charge is an inadmissible abuse of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation. The constitutional charge brought against the President of the Republic is a product which shows the highest degree of ignorance of law and constitutes an insult to the legal profession and to the product with which the Republic of Slovenia laughs. The charge could usefully be used for seminars at the Faculty of Law as an example that should not have happened. The lawyers who took part in this company should have returned their diploma because they obviously got it by mistake." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Tonight we are truly witnessing an interesting and beautiful evening. I'm glad I don't have to defend the president of the country, because he did it on his own. Today, some are trying to convince us that voters are wrong, but according to political theory, there is still a principle repeatedly repeated that voters are always right. And I'm sure tonight they'll understand that some people are persistently preventing them from being misled, they're delusional, they don't have their brains, they're being directed by some strange forces in the background. It is certainly one thing that, of course, in this debate, no one has been able to show or prove that the President of the State would violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in any article. With the mandate given to him by citizens and citizens in direct elections, the President also received a number of specific rights and duties and public opinion, and public research shows that he is doing them as citizens and citizens expect him to do because he has a high 'political rating' and a reputation. Of course, I wish him to continue his responsible and difficult work, as he has done so far. There was also a lot of talk about this interesting, highly red - colored book. I don't know if this book is a nostalgia of authors that you wrote after some past times, whose important and crucial part of you were. When I read it, I really don't get it. Of course, I was never and never a member of the Communist Union, nor did I have any desire, but those who accuse and those who are accused are just exchanging their appearances on these sides. Apparently, they're part of the same system. When I read last Friday in Youth the burning desire of a representative who today strongly criticises how much he wanted to be part of that system. Apparently, that was modern, necessary and important back then. Even those who were part of this system today did not hear them say that they were sorry that those times had occurred when human rights were, of course, in mass violation. But to me, I have to say, I'm sorry that this was part of our history. The back story cannot be fixed or improved in anything, but I want to stick to one, that, of course, those who are no longer and were victims, should be spoken as little as possible, but when we talk about them, of course we need to speak with regret and with respect. Of course, it is necessary to see what this most important anti-crisis measure we have witnessed today brings to citizens and citizens of Slovenia. I'm sure we've wasted some of our hard-earned international reputation. They say that Americans have two hundred years of democracy and have tried impeachments three times during this period, never and never been successful. Well, we Slovenians have a sad record, these experiments have been carried out or predicted as many as four in the nineteenth year of our democracy. But it's probably just random or conspiratory that, of course, the authors of this story are always the same. However, I am sorry, as someone who has the status of veteran war for Slovenia, that this has also dropped the stain and a pack on the North, but who had one simple intention of protecting democratic processes, of course, and thus allowing democratic elections to be held, of which the Slovenians were expected to gain a great deal, and of course this fight, who was more deserving of what we had at the time as a result of the independent processes today, is either a manoeuvre structure or more than six thousand police involved in it. I think that neither one nor the other answer is true, the most merit should be attributed to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who at the plebiscite then made the right choice and realized the dreams that many generations of our fathers dreamed of. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Saiovic. Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u204	"We young were always the most revolutionary. And it is up to us to continue to develop our self-government socialist society, to build it in the revolutionary foundations of Marxism. However, the process of facilitating defence preparations can be successful only through new personnel, which are trained mainly in such actions as our journey by delegates to the second session of Avnoj in Eggs. They have laid the foundations, and we must build on these foundations forward, develop brotherhood and unity among our peoples, fight against all negative influences and phenomena in our society and, above all, follow the ways of our greatest revolutionary, Comrade Titus." I have to say, when I read this, tears appeared in my eyes. Then I asked myself, who is the author of this text? Do you know who wrote this text, these thoughts? Janez Janša, your Janez Janša. In 1977, of course, so at a time when it was very rewarding to support socialism. So there are two John Janša. One is Mr Janez Janša, president of the SDS, a great fighter for democracy and for condemning the communist system. The second is Comrade Ivan Janez Janša, a member of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, a great fighter for Marksize and for, in his words, the greatest revolutionary, Comrade Josip Broz Tito. What a duplicity. What a duplicity. With what face John Janša today condemns a system in which he not only acted and supported but magnified him publicly. And let's ask ourselves, who is the one who really deserves your constitutional accusation today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I see that the excitement of the coalition Members is quite great. But at the outset, I would like to reply in just two sentences to Mrs Potrati, who is already completely obsessed with my tinyness, but I regret that I will find it difficult to welcome some of the frustrations that have arisen on this side. But I'd like to say the following. Yes, I called a board meeting on Friday at 2:00 p.m. But at two o'clock in the afternoon, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are still working. Apparently, there are no more coalition parties, so they obviously didn't know there was going to be a meeting Monday. Let me also say that it was because I thought that perhaps someone was already on their way home that we had informed all the experts. And you won't believe it, the expert member of the Social Democrats' Group came to my office and said, "Please, if you can send Mrs. Potrati and Mr. Magajna home." That's what we did. But today Mrs. Potter says she hasn't seen the material. Then the problem may be in the services of the National Assembly, which you have under your control. So there is something wrong here, and here, of course, there was an absolute non-reality. Or, as you say today in coalition lines, a mistake. The President of the State said in his introduction that he had come here to respect Members and Members and to respect the institution of the National Assembly. Of course, I appreciate that and respect it. But I do hope that the President of the State has also come here out of respect for all those who have experienced severe injustices, hardships, persecutions by the Udba and by the very man he personally excelled, 24 years ago. 9. 2009 But why did the president of the country actually honor Mr Ertle? Is it because of the North? Or is it because it was possible to pay for certain services in the past, which today also show up in this position as the President of the State and all the people that the President of the State has in his office and also come from the leadership of the Udba? This is best known by the President of the State, who, according to his own judgment, decided to give recognition or honor to such a person. Then, in his introduction, the President of the State called for reconciliation. But I can see for myself today that he obviously wasn't being honest about this. If the President of the State had sincerely thought so, at least one sentence in his 50-minute address would have been addressed to the victims of the Judgment, who were also persecuted by his medallion. If the President of the State really thought honestly about the matter, then yesterday he would have listened to people on the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, as well as to coalition MPs who were not there, not because they did not get the material, but because they did not have the courage to come to this committee. Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that everyone has the right to personal dignity. A large number of individuals were deprived of this personal dignity at least twice. For the first time, they were deprived of this dignity when they experienced various forms of repression by the Udba or the Secret Political Police, led for 12 years by the President's top-notch national award winner, Mr Tomaž Ertl. And the second time, the dignity of the people was violated when the President of the State granted recognition to Tomaž Ertl. At one of the Commission's meetings on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, Mrs Alenka Puhar said that her moral sense violated this distinction. And indeed, I am convinced that this distinction offends the moral sense of many other Slovenians and Slovenes, especially those who have experienced terror by a criminal association, which is certainly not a humanitarian organization, as some would like to show by this laughter that we are experiencing by coalition Social Democrats. Indeed, as President of the Commission, I have asked people publicly to send us their testimony regarding the functioning of the State Security Service, to write to us what they were experiencing under the Udba. We received 71 testimonies showing some form of time that brutally trampled on human rights and fundamental freedoms. I would ask you, Mr President, if you could silence a few Members on the other side, because it is very difficult to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u207	Please, Members of Parliament on the other hand, so that Mrs Irgle may speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. And, of course, we have of these petitions a testimony that also dates back to the time when Mr Tomaž Ertl led the Judgment, and I must say that this was not the period after the war, as they now want to show, not even in 1955 or around 1960. We received very severe testimony from 1984 and 1989, and two of those who witnessed were also on the Commission for Petitions yesterday and for human rights and equal opportunities. There was a gentleman with us who was arrested by Tomaž Ertla who was at work after he refused to cooperate with the Udba when he did not spy on the Udba when his entire family was under control because he did not want to participate in the Udba. And we had on the committee a lady, the wife of one of the guilty accused in the 1984 trial of eight. So this didn't happen in 1955, but seven years before the conquest. That real arrest that I was talking about, one or two years before I took over. And the state has not yet paid the injustices to these people. And I must say that both the gentleman and the lady have shown great courage that they came to this committee yesterday and have also told their story. And I would like the people who accompany us today and who may not have been accompanying the Commission for petitions yesterday to show us just a fraction of what these people have been experiencing, and this is by the Udba, who commanded Tomaž Ertl for 12 years and is also responsible for it, but today this man is decorated by the President of the State, which is unethical and certainly controversial. And here I think that the people of the country of Slovenia also know where there is a border. The lady said, "My husband was a jazz player, a musician. We met at Bled. He worked as a professional musician. He played with other musicians such as Lado Jakša, Sonja Gabrsček, Andrej Zupančič and many others who were then recognized. He also had friends from Hazard's group. Hazard Group will have a concert in Ljubljana after 30 years. The process began in 1984. In 1983 he was a member of the Hazard Group, for five years he was expelled from Slovenia and problems began. They took him out of the concert at night, wanted him to work for the Slovenian Udba. Because he refused to cooperate because he refused to spy on the Udba, he was expelled from Slovenia. We still don't know what the point of this process was. Why did this process begin? They're hiding everything and it's all very mysterious. There were a lot of people involved in the process. There were nine of them. The trial began in a court-martial, condemning two people who, unfortunately, are already dead today. One of them is my husband, and the other is a friend, a musician." The lady says that this happened in 1984 and says onward: "In this judgment, which they established, there were very difficult convictions." They've read to her husband terrorism, espionage and hate propaganda. "These were very difficult accusations and therefore I said to myself that I must say this because of the dead today. For five years I was constantly controlled, every day they came to divorce because they wanted to expel the man from Slovenia. I don't have any wedding pictures. They took all my wedding pictures as if they'd never been married. And what am I supposed to say? I've been fighting for 20 years. We all thought that when democracy, in 1990, 1991, the state would say, you know what, it just happened, then it was, it could have been. But she couldn't even apologize. My husband received his pardon 19 days before he died, so I barely read it to him. In 1984, nineteen days before his death, the husband was granted a sentence of pardon." And then he goes on to say that I won't read everything that happened in this military prison when it wasn't really anybody's fault. It's blood spattered on the walls, that's what they did to people, all his teeth were knocked out. These are really impossible things for a person to talk about. What was done with the people in the military prison? Those were terrible things. How many of these people worked for the Udba, they know that for themselves. Even now that they see me, when I say it, I see them all over Kranj, I see them everywhere, they're my generation, but I don't even know how a man can do that. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And then, finally, I asked the lady what she felt about the fact that the President of the State decorated Tomaž Ertl with the highest national recognition. [[...]] And she said, "It's been really hard for me. I said, I think the medals could get those who, because of those who did this, are dead today. I think they could get that kind of recognition, because for me, they really were the real heroes to handle it. For me, they were heroes." That's what the lady said yesterday, but I cut this short on the petitions commission. And I think that these are stories that actually tell what kind of person the President of the country has awarded a medal and I think that the President of the country should also think clearly about this. He had time for this before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u210	After the shocking stories we've heard from Mrs Eva Irgle, I can say that, of course, such things have happened. We who lived at the time, Mrs Irgle was a child, some of us were already adults, probably Mr Janez Janša and I, who were active in the youth organisation at the time and also a member of the Union of Communists, did not know about these things. And it's terrible for me, but you know, the transfer of some of those who were at the time, say Mrs. Alenka Puhar, editor of the Saturday Annex of Del, prominent commentator of Del, was probably a party newspaper at the time. Yeah, well, then what's going on?Oh, my God! Then we were all part of this system. And all these stories that we're listening to here today can only prove more to my thesis that today's constitutional conviction is not a conviction against the President of the State, it's a constitutional conviction against Mr Tomaž Ertl, the man who was awarded this President of the Republic this recognition for only one act, and this is for organising the North Action. Because of those who may be here in the hall or at the screens, if anyone else is following us, younger, let me say that at that time I was alone a correspondent of the Slovenian media in Belgrade. At that time, the Federal Police, the Federal Army and the Federal Army were preparing a serious action in Slovenia. Among the demonstrators, who are supposed to come as ordinary people to demonstrate in Slovenia, their agents are expected to move in, trigger emergency situations here and apologize, give cause for action that would constitute the capture of Slovenia and the discipline of Slovenia due to its democratic standards that it has begun to enforce. Listen, who stopped it? That's what prevented the North action. If the organizers of this action deserve some recognition, even though Mr Ertl is among them, but Mr Ertl has led it in this case, yes, then I don't know who deserves it. In democratic Slovenia, dear colleagues from the opposition, you had 20 years to inform Mr Tomaž Ertl if you thought he acted against the interests of Slovenia and the Slovenian people at least you did not. You didn't do it. You did something else. That's exactly what you accused the president of the country of. Because the presidents of the country are even your weakness. Mr Černač earlier said that this President could not be the President of all Slovenians, and Mr Kučan could not be the President of all Slovenians, in your opinion, and also the late Dr Drnovšek could not be the President of all Slovenians, and you were also preparing for him such performances as we have witnessed to her today, and that is quite amazing. I see this accusation yourself, which you have written, in the light of broader structures. These structures have been coming from the same source for years and years, reaching both history and present. If I start at the beginning. When dealing with events from time II. World wars are trying to make the national liberation partisan units a criminal organization and the occupationists as fighters for democracy. This practice then continues at a time of self-reliance, when you attach only one credit for independence, it was only part of the invaders that we must worship today in order to be a state of our own. What about all those who went to plebiscite and plebiscite decided that Slovenia would be independent, it probably doesn't matter. Then followed the years-long actions of instigation, political structures, conspiracy and the discrediting of political opponents. Political issues were often attempted to be resolved on the street and even called for the dissolution of this National Assembly, Parliament. Now this instability is trying to enter the institutions of the system. We also feel this here, in the National Assembly, when you bombard us every day with extraordinary meetings of working bodies, the National Assembly, you demand interpretations, you demand constitutional convictions, you write political pamphlets, where you look for God, where once it is, once it is gone and so on. Above all, you want to constantly create the feeling that this policy is completely incapable of solving the real problems that this Slovenia is facing. Nor is he able to save the President of the Republic because he is not the President, in your opinion, of all Slovenians. Nor is it capable of being tried, nor is it capable of any other branch of power. Yes, listen, because this is the best possible basis for some extraordinary situation that you think might come in handy, but you're wrong. Such things can quickly turn into something other than your coming to power. Finally, allow me to borrow the words that the former president of this National Assembly gave you 16 years ago, Mr Herman Rigelnik: "He who sows the wind reaps the storm."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you very much. When I was preparing for this performance, of course, I was thinking that I would be looking here or that the President of the State would be sitting here with us. Of course not. In the introductory part of his performance, I must say that he said with a tremendous hiccup and an extremely energetic call, vigorously reject this constitutional accusation. Of course, he brought me back to history for a moment, both in the 16th century, when I thought I was listening to a king or emperor who takes this post as a legacy and not as the president of the country who was elected by the people for a certain period of time with the possibility of doubling the mandate. He's obviously taking this matter a little differently, a little bit historical. Look, I'd like to talk in my work about the following; as you know, I took part in the North myself, I led 300 or 400 police officers in the Celje Police Department area, and I'm glad that there was actually no member here today who would just ask a question about the North action. I was also a member of the North Society until I was 30. 11. In 2009, when I was also invited to this celebration, of course I went to the celebration. Just outside Cankar’s home, I was kind of caught up in what happened, so I turned around at the front door and went home. I have to say, I've been thinking for a while that night, or wasn't that caller who tipped me off, actually, because I couldn't believe it really happened. But there's something you need to say. I haven't even thought about leaving the organization in two or three days. But when I listened to the president of the country, who said, "After careful consideration and on the proposal of 5,000 members, I assigned this and this award," then somehow it was over for me and it was clear that something was wrong, but not with the organisation of the North, but with its leadership. I will give some information below, referring to what is happening at this time in the North Association, i.e. they have sent me a lot of documents on how this has been done. I called President Horvath myself that morning and asked him, "Listen," we've known each other for years, "how could this have happened?" He said: "Somewhere in August or July we were called by representatives of the Cabinet of the President of the State," so much in response to those who laughed earlier on this statement is confirmed by President Horvat. So the President's office called the North Association and told them that the president was ready to award three national medals. My next question was, "How could this happen then, how could you get to these three?" In fact, it would be extremely good for me if the President of the State decided to honor the North Association. It's a large number, 5,000, 6,000 police officers, I think there are slightly fewer of them in the association, and it would be good if the organization, as such, gets a medal. But that was not the case. President Horvath said to me, "You know, we made a deal in the leadership." Well, here's the thing. Then, of course, I got out, if that's what they said in the leadership, so they went over their membership and, in particular, past who should have made that decision, and this is the organisation's board of directors. Let me point out once again at this point, also because of all my former colleagues who are probably following me now or they will be giving me deep appreciation for their work. I appreciate my job, too. I myself have been an integral part of this organization in Celje, and I continue to stress and reiterate that important and honorable work has been done. However, there is something else to point out that this leadership - see, they have agreed, as the president says, that they will receive three national decorations. Who are these three? One of them also participated, the leadership of the association represents, at least according to Internet data, five people, and three people have thus made a deal. One proposed himself and proposed two more of his bosses, Mr Jessenko and Mr Ertl. Look, I remember those events exactly. I was part of this operation, if that's what we can call it. Who's decorated? The cabinet leaders have been decorated. None of these three men were field leaders. As far as Mr Ertle is concerned, he has transposed the policy order and signed the documents. And that's all he's done. As far as cabinet management is concerned, these were two medals. The operating leader and all the other officers, you know, who at the time we had some half-Cranese tea for a quick drink, or else we were working, had to say something that these people didn't get anything. I didn't see Mr. Kolentz at the Cankar home party. I think Mr Kolenc is one of those who got out even after. But he was the operational leader who walked the field. Who walked the field and led the field. I don't know, I haven't seen him in Cankar's home, and I don't even know if he'd get any medals. So they got cabinet leaders and not operational leaders. That's an insult to all the cops. At least in my opinion, who worked operationally on the ground, that their leaders, who were sitting in the offices of Stefan 2, would get it and they wouldn't. After that call from the President of the State's office, there were three people meeting among those, as I said, and agreed on who would get something. Article 22 of the Statute of the Association states in the preceding indent that the Management Board shall send proposals to the public authorities for the award of State decorations and so on. That's not what the board of directors did. That wasn't even done by the Board of Meds. You're not gonna believe this. Here I have 10, 12 people in this picture who make up the board of directors. There's no one among them to make that decision. There is only one among them who was subsequently informed and has a mandate, as has been said, among them is one who has decided on two decorations. The president of the country earlier said, "Yes, I was legitimately sent this proposal" and presented it in the documentation. That's what he's holding. But according to my data and that's also true, so it comes from the correspondence they sent me, they later covered it with a meeting in January to cover, as they said, the president of the country, that this action would no longer be controversial. Despite the fact that there were four or five presidents of the District Committees who explicitly opposed this meeting. For the Koprečans and the Ljubljanaians, I think there was another regional unit. What did President Horvath write later? In one of his explanations, he admitted it, so I will read it. In agreement with the Office of the President of the Republic, a proposal for the award of three national medals, a silver order for the merits, was submitted in the final stage of preparation for the Memorial. On the basis of the list of proposed police cooperation signs, the working group for the award of recognitions and decorations was established. The Office of the President of the Republic was forwarded a proposal with the signing of the President of the Association, and today the President indicated that I do not resent him. He pointed out this document, which assessed compliance with the Governing Board's decision on activities at the 20th year of the North Action, that the Organizational Committee had all the powers to mark this event. Thus, on the basis of the power to prepare the celebration, three more national decorations have been received by the board of directors and by the selection committee. Well, the president admits that. The act was therefore contrary to the Statute, although the President of the State was mistaken. I don't blame him for being wrong. He's in the wrong because they just handed him a document like that. This has not been discussed by the Management Board. The matter is relatively clear there. Inside the associations, so I've been informed, they want to replace this leadership in March or April. I am deeply convinced that all those exits that followed my exit, but I am talking about Mr Pogorjevac, I think that even about Mr Kolenec, I do not know whether Mr Beznik is yet or not, and many others who have stepped out are a sign of protest against the leadership of the North Association. We must never, once again, equalize the North Associations and all these thousands of police officers with their leadership. Their leadership has abused the situation, their leadership has abused the situation, and they could say that the president of the country was brought to thin ice, although I do not apologize. He should have overestimated what had happened, for he himself had the opportunity to evaluate historical events, since he was a grown man at that time. I think the president of the country had the opportunity to do something when this was clearly revealed in the Slovenian public. You could at least seem to dig yourself out of this situation by agreeing, both with Mr Ertl and with the North Association, some fair deal with leadership, of course, and withdraw the matter. No, but he absolutely insists on this situation and that's bad. He insists on this, and this also led to today’s session. I could say, I'm sorry, they got me wrong. I say, I'm sorry, every student, if I think I've misjudged something or anything. The President of the State is not intruding, either, but I have a feeling that his word of pardon does not go out of his mouth and that is the problem. So he's increasingly convincing me that he's doing this because of his greatness, namely his performance, the intonation of today's performance, in which he said, "Oh, no, it's not so," means a sign of superiority, and it's not as good as not knowing that he has a mandate. And the people will be the one who will be tried in the elections. It also convinces me, now that you insist so much on this, you also know that it is actually consciously doing so. That he willfully does so and willfully conceals all that we have said at today’s session. I'm thinking one more thing. Look, he didn't split the left and the right and you did, away from it. Look inside the left block you have a series of intellectuals who clearly said it's not the right action. So he didn't just cut between you and us, but he cut between you, that's it. Even though you'll be able to cover it for sure. Just this one more thing, look, one more act. You emphasize a single act it was and is rewarded for a single act. Yeah, I never gave a student who answered nine questions, he didn't open his mouth, and he recited the 10th, and he never got a 10, but he failed the exam. And in this context, the president of the country also failed the exam. For the record, look at us sitting here, the one you said we were sitting here, you're not gonna convince me with any order that I have to get up if the president of the country comes. The President of the State, we have risen, too, all of us, on all his appearances in this House. He insulted thousands of people, thousands of people, and colleagues mentioned them. And if he's willing to insult thousands of people, I think at least as far as I'm concerned, I speak personally, I don't have to stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. First, in a procedural sense, I would suggest to my colleagues on that side of the hall that we should be able to follow our late Member of the Slovenian Christian Democrats, Marjan Šifrer. The ones you were in the National Assembly at the time, you already know what I mean. And now for content. For the first time in the history of the Slovenian modern country, we are witnessing a motion for an indictment by the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court, proposed by Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party, a large part of the opposition. It is another instrument of the opposition in the relentless struggle to regain power, which has slipped away in the 2008 national elections. The responsibility of the President of the Republic is defined in Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic, which states that the President of the Republic may be charged by the National Assembly before the Constitutional Court if he has violated the Constitution or has violated the law in the exercise of his office. If the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court find infringements, the Constitutional Court may, by a majority of the votes of all judges, decide to withdraw. I therefore ask the motioners of the constitutional indictment: Do they really believe that there was only one distinction for major violations of the law and the Constitution that the President of the Republic, Dr. Daniel Türk, should be removed? Or in this case, it is only a political plot whose main purpose is to evaluate the role of the President of the Republic, who has also slipped out of hand in the 2007 elections, and to retake power at the full political upheaval. The reasons for the constitutional accusation already begin with a great deal of manipulation. I quote. "It was announced on 30 November 2009 that the President of the Republic, Dr. Danilo Türk, awarded the former head of the Udba Tomaž Ertl with a silver order of credit." I looked at the website of the Slovenian Press Agency and read the title "Türk for Merit During the North Action awarded Time, Ertla and Jessenka." So a group of high-ranking officials of the then militia and the Secretariat of Internal Affairs, who were most responsible for carrying out the North action, to prevent a rally of truth in 1989 in Slovenia of the Truth Mitings, which grew in the present Yugoslavia and eventually led to the largest seas since the Second World War in Europe. I do not know if there would be such a problem with the award of only one award, if only this were granted to all participants in the North and not to three of its most visible actors, including the then Republic Secretary for Home Affairs. After all, it is about creating a concrete event, to successfully prevent a rally of truth in Ljubljana, i.e. a coup d'état and an indispensable stone in the mosaic of Slovenian independence. Of course, I will not support the constitutional charge, nor can I support the proposal for a decision by the applicants of this ordinary political plot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u216	I do not wish to deny anyone the democratic right to form his own democratic thought and to express this thought of the President's decoration, and even if someone disagrees with such a decision, it does not mean that such a distinction is not sufficient to qualify as a violation of the Constitution or a serious breach of the law. In fact, in this story, it's something completely different. This is, on the one hand, another attempt to monopolize the merits of the democratisation and independence of our country. Instead of being able to draw that common starting point from this unique national experience in the past 20 years, it could also be a base for the challenges that lie ahead. This is sad, it is shortsighted and serves the selfish interests of some political power, not what the National Assembly should always have before its eyes, and these are the best interests of this nation. The second purpose of this debate is, of course, the combination of this dissatisfaction that we are witnessing in this country. We are living in a time of economic and increasingly social crisis. At this time, responsible policy must lay the foundations for building on what we have to build, for strengthening the potentials we have in society, for us to survive in the medium and long term, and for today to help those who need our help. However, irresponsible policy will use the social discontent for short-sighted populism and dissatisfaction to undermine the confidence of people in democratic institutions on which our social agreement is based, our Constitution. In history, we have some clear comparisons. During the economic crisis in the United States, the great American President Roosevelt was able to organize American people, create new visions, new dreams about how they would reorganise their social reality and come out of the crisis stronger. Unfortunately, however, we also have other comparisons when an authoritarian group took place with populism, hatred, and powerlessness. I do not want to be more specific than to deserve the proper remark of the President of the National Assembly. We have two clear historical experiences and we want to build on one that is democratic, that is open and that respects the legitimate differences between us, but not that, as the President of the Republic today very clearly warns, he accuses headlessly and across the board. We have a responsibility to take Slovenia out of the crisis and this must be our joint task, this must be the challenge that brings Slovenia together. But remember, even though government responsibility is on our side, the opposition is not without responsibility in this great challenge. And it is not enough just to re-heat this political struggle in already such a dramatic hot situation. Your responsibility is also to contribute to a creative social climate that will help us get out of this crisis more strongly. And this could be our common victory, gentlemen. These ambitions to be a joint project of this nation, all of our people and all of Slovenia's policies have long been abandoned. Instead, we see an increase in this mistrust and a persistent attempt to get citizens and citizens of this country to the streets where another republic is born. Don't forget, and I don't recognize any of the independents of this historical merit that this country was created in a democratic and legal way. Our government, this side of Parliament, is trying to change it in a better, legal and democratic way, not by instilling feelings in a nation that cannot result in a positive action, in what we need as Slovenia. I think everything was answered to the constitutional charge. I think it is clear that this is an abuse of this institution and I want to remind you that in the future you choose weapons more carefully when you demolish the democratic institutions of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. True, we lived in totalitarianism. Today we live in democracy. And it is overturned if the President of the State rewards someone who was at the top of the pyramid of the totalitarian system, or the Udba, which is definitely a criminal organization. Many writers from the left ideological spectrum have also drawn an interesting equation, for example, stating that there were no major differences between the Gestapo, the NKBD and the Udba. They were right. According to the working methods of these organizations, they were still right. The essence of totalitarianism is evil. But evil is done with a repressive apparatus, with unlawful closures, terrorist acts and the like. And all of this was done by the Ascension. That was the political police. So the police were then the only political parties, Communist parties, and communism could not exist without violence. Otherwise, there are no crimes without criminals and, of course, there is no crime without punishment and this has also happened in Slovenia. With this award by the President of the State of Ertl, it is not only an excuse for this evil, but it is primarily a reward for this evil that we have witnessed. We've heard something about a terrorist attack in Veliovac today. And there are documents on that. In the 1970s, the uprising in Austria organised terrorist attacks. This is documented in the archives and also in the records of the Republic Council for the Protection of Constitutional Regulations. This was discussed at several sessions and were attended by fellow Witnesses: Franz Šetinc, John Zemalerič, Anton Vratusha, Tomaž Ertl, and many others. Let's see, Mr. Zemlarič or Comrade Zemlarič was then the Republic Secretary for Home Affairs, Comrade Ertl was his Undersecretary, later his secretary. Franz Šetinc was then president of the ZDL Republic Conference, Anton Vratusha was then chairman of the Executive Council. Mitja Ribičič, who regularly participated in these meetings, took over the OZNO behind Ivan Cat. He was chairman of the Federal Executive Board. He was also president of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia. In the coming days, we will surely hear many times that these comrades had absolutely nothing to do with the actions in Austria's Koroška, Veliovac and elsewhere. But that was then the political summit of Slovenia, which commanded Udba. Already in the minutes of the 7th session of the Republic Council for the Protection of Constitutional Regulations of 21. 9. In 1979, some very interesting findings were made. Look, the record says that after the event in Velivac, he has to prepare more legends. It also takes into account the possibilities for the Austrian security authorities to discover and discover everything known to any participant in the action. Interesting. And so on. They protected their people and wrote that all possible measures should be taken to legally protect the two Yugoslav citizens involved in the actions and could still be listed. In addition to the terrorist action of the two members of the Wielowec Judgment, there were other sabotages and actions in Austria's Koroška, something small has already been said here. True, in the part of the minority at the time, in the 1970s, there was the belief that there were enough "mazza" actions, they wanted something more. However, it was appropriate for individual representatives of minorities to be trained in Pohorje and Poreč for specific terrorist actions and to allow access to explosive means. The former Slovenian Prime Minister Stana Kavčič at the time felt that the Yugoslavs wanted to trigger tensions at the border with this attack in Veliovac, so that they could better manage the situation at home. I think that's interesting and a pretty good conclusion. This activity of the Judgment in the Austrian Koroška, in this bilingual territory, was not for the benefit of a minority. On the contrary, it increased the conflict between the majority and the minority people in the Austrian Koroška. It is clear that we can only fight for the rights of minorities through political means at bilateral level, at multilateral level, including internationalisations, but, ladies and gentlemen, not in the way it is applied in Palestine. The then world press, for example, Frankfurter Algemeine Zeitung, made it clear that traces of a massive attack lead to the Ljubljana police circles. They didn't write "in the Belgrade police circles," they wrote "the Ljubljana police circles." Algemeine wrote about this on 17.10.1979 because they knew well that the attacker was someone from Ljubljana and that he was at work at Udba. Work and Politics then, interestingly, wrote that "games for the rude provocation of Austria". Shortly thereafter, both of them admitted their actions. Moreover, as we have heard many times today, the political police of the Communist Party wanted to disqualify the Christian-oriented part of the Slovenian minority and the Koroška Single List with this assassination in Austria's Koroška, today it is called the Single List, because this kind of organization of the minority was not the weather for the then party. The party supported organizations that followed the bright traditions of communism. And also the Slovenian left, the minority left in Austria's Koroška began to integrate into the majority of Austrian parties. They began, interestingly, to defend the position that the Austrian State Treaty had already been fulfilled, and they distanced themselves from the then Koroška Single List. And what happened? In the elections, the Koroška Single List lost some 2,000 votes, received 4,000 votes and did not join the National Assembly. The explosion in Celovac, I'm sorry, the explosion in Veliovac was just three weeks before the country's elections. We can see from the CV of the president of the country, Dr Danil Türk, that at the time of the events of these terrorist actions carried out in the Austrian Republic by our Uda, he was employed by the SZDL. It was that man who was dealing with minority issues. He was chairman of the Commission on Minority and Emigrant Issues until 1982. If Mr Türk were here, of course, I would ask him how familiar he was at the time as a young SZDL official with the terrorist activities of the Slovenian Udba in the bilingual area of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr. Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. I would like to add something to what my fellow Member, Miro Petek, has said. Even before that, I think I owe one answer to the loudest of the Jura family, which I think was the 15th time in the history of this House, that I have quoted a piece of the Avnaj Walking Brigade's newsletter. Yes, because I would expect you to know this by heart, because you read this 15 times, and I have never denied this authorship, but I have always asked that when you read this and when you read it to me on the ways of Avnoi to tell another part of the story. But the second part of the story is that this march and this tradition on my proposal were abolished the following year and that some of us in the youth organization were declared anti-revolutionaries for the first time. That was when that remarkable differentiation began in the youth organization, which then led to a number of events. When you read it again or already recite it in your mind, say it again. It was also said that, in fact, the constitutional charge should be brought against me because I wrote it 30 years ago. As if now an article written on the basis of what was known at the time or what I knew or believed at the time, I never denied it, the same thing that someone was instigating bombs in Koroška, imprisoning people, stalking, listening, dramatically violating human rights. This simplification is in fact an excess of all misdirection. True, there were times when, as an entire class, we arrived on a train to Ljubljana from school and demonstrated for the rights of our minority in Koroška. I know we had to write some banners with passwords like they told us. On one of the banners we carried also said "We are strongly protesting against the anointing and defilement of Slovenian monuments in Austria's Koroška". This was then written by the Yugoslav or Slovenian newspapers as the German chauvinists in Koroškem stained Slovenian monuments. If you read this material, which you previously held in your hands with disgust, and which was distributed, you will see that many of these luscious actions were organized by the Slovenian Ascension. Slovenian Udba organised the petals of Slovenian monuments in Koroškem, and we, as children from schools in Ljubljana, protested against these mazaški actions, which were attributed to German chauvinists in Koroška. One who was a very active writer of the professional debates on German chauvinism in Koroška and also in these actions is, here I have one of his products, including the current President of the Republic, who was very active in dealing with the situation, also accused German chauvinists of what the Resurrection was doing to a great extent. If you read this documentation, you will see that the subcenter of the Slovenian Udba in Koroška, called the Subcenter of Soro, lubricated both the features of heimatdiensta and the partisan monuments. But the matter did not, as former Ambassador Petek said, stop there. This subcenter of the Slovenian Udba, named Sora, has organized real terrorist actions through people who are also named in these documents, some with names and names, some with co-workers' names. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]] I can see she's a friend. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u221	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u222	He got nervous because I didn't notice his name there, maybe some code name disturbed him. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u223	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u224	This subcenter of the Slovenian Constitution, which was subordinated to Mr Ertl at that time, Mr Ertl was first the head of the Department in Udba, then the Head of the Udba and then the Republic Secretary of the Interior, to whom the Audience was subordinated, also organized the mining of cables, railway lines and museums. The worst action was precisely when the museum was mined in Veliovac, and it was in the house, at the time, that the bomb was timed for the time when the municipal council was to meet in this house. It was a terrorist action aimed at causing large human casualties. The bomb exploded prematurely, and three were seriously injured - the museum guard and both who planted the bomb. Both were formally employed in the Slovenian Udba. Luke Vidmar and Martina Bly. Both had passports, real and fake, and faked in a fake name, but officially issued in Slovenia. In addition to these terrorist actions that have succeeded, the Ubba organised in Koroška or the Udba participants in Koroška, some of whom, as the survey has shown, were also planning to poison the lake itself in part. You can imagine the consequences, the attack on the youth camp and the explosion of the radio transmitter. They received explosives for these actions from the Udba in Slovenia. The people who participated in these actions were trained at the Centres of the Audience in Slovenia. They received lighters and other technical means for these actions in Slovenia. This assassination of Velivets, such as this terrorist act then came to be called, was actually taking place throughout the world. This documentation you received on the table is only part of the documentation that exists. It is also a court case where the investigation has shown a great deal. Both members of the Udba, who directly carried out the action in Veliovac, confessed their actions, were convicted of international terrorism and then replaced from Yugoslavia for two suspected Austrian spies. All the political authorities in Slovenia at the time dealt with this, under the label "strictly confidential". The reactions were such that, in fact, there was a halt. Belgrade has banned Slovenia's Udba from continuing these actions. What were the consequences for the Slovenian minority in Koroška? The fact is that this was the terrorist action that most affected the Slovenian minority in Koroška. In particular, one part of this minority, the part that did not want to drown in the Austrian Socialist Party, which the minority should have, because it was a directive that came from Belgrade. We do not speak so much in this action because it would have been the worst violation committed by the Uda, even though it was a very big thing. And not only is it because it is one of the rare activities of the Resurrection, which has been completely spoiled by this accident. By the way, Yugoslavia formally conducted a huge "investigation" at the time. But in this investigation, those who were most responsible were protected and all advanced. Only some of the operatives from the Udba Centre in Maribor were replaced because the action failed. We are talking so much about this action because of a sentence you could read in the diary and the memories of Stanek Kavčič. Stane Kavčič wrote quite a few pages about this action in his diary, and not just that. The executioner knew Luke Vidmar, an assassin who himself was badly injured when the bomb was set up because he was associated with his son, and one of his sons was also in Udba. He knew the background, he knew the people, and he wrote: "It follows from the above that the great assassination is not the work of Luke Vidmar, nor our secret police, which was sent and assassinated by operationally, but is the result of the conclusion of leading political figures. The political platform for the Udba action in Koroškem was created by some individuals at the summit of the then Slovenian policy, who assessed the situation there and wrote a so-called political platform for the functioning of the Udba." The couch knew that, which is why he wrote it. If the President of the Republic were here right now, I would be direct to him, but now I can only directly ask him the following question. By the way, in the history of independent Slovenia, I believe that only one constitutional charge has been made so far, and not three, against the Prime Minister Drnovšk. But there is a big difference between what we are doing and what we are witnessing today. The Prime Minister of the Government, who was charged with constitutional charges, was in Parliament at the time of the debate and finally answered questions. We have not received such respect from President Türk for this legislative body today. The President of the Republic, who awarded the award to Mr Ertle, I ask in public: What do you know about the assassination in Veliovac, which took place in September 1979? I'm not asking that by accident. Mr Petek earlier said that in 1979, when this assassination took place, President Türk became a member of the Executive Committee of the Republic Conference of the SZDL Slovenia in charge of international relations. At the same time, in the Republic Conference, the SZDL became President of the Commission on National, Minority and Emigration Issues. In other words, Dr. Türk became the highest political official in Slovenia in 1979, in charge of Austria and our minority. The next question is, Mr President: Did you get any information in this important international function about the terrorist operation of the SDV between 1975 and 1979 or any minority comment, how did this damage the Slovenian replacement in Austria? The next question is: Were you involved in organizing an exchange of Yugoslav terrorists with alleged Austrian spies in 1981? The next question is: What did you know about the background of this assassination in Velivac, as a man who then had the highest political function in the field of minority issues in Slovenia? Next question, Mr President: Who has drawn up a political orientation for action on the basis of which a bombing was carried out in Veliovac? The next question is, Mr President: How long have you personally known Ertla's medallion? Or: Which projects did they participate in? Mr President, what does Ertl's medallion know about your operation with regard to Austria's Koroška? I strongly hope that the President will respond to these questions in concrete terms. Since he has left, he already knows why, from Parliament, without answering the questions, we hope that, because they have been made public, he will also answer publicly. However, I think it would be very useful to come here - because you have repeatedly called, "on your part, to press charges and motions", I think a thorough international investigation of this case would be very useful. And it may turn out eventually that the motive for this medal was not the North's action, but the Velivec action.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u226	Thank you, President. My fellow Member, this text, this composition of you from thirty-three years ago comes very precisely because it clearly shows that each medal has two salaries. And I can see that it hurts you, too, when only one of these two salaries is exposed. In fact, I am glad that there is still a spark of this Marxist revolution in you, but it does not seem right for you to see the operation and support of the socialist system, a system in which you have not only worked and supported it, but have been publicly magnified and invited to continue building it along with you. In this, fellow Member, is your duality.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] There is no replica, but you can report as a proponent to the word. [[...]] That's what Mr. Janez Janša has to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u228	Mr. Yuri, I never denied it, I never said that I didn't write it, nor did I deny that I was part of this system. I was and was also a member of the Communist Union. I also explained why, many times in public, and also why there was a breakup. And now, if I were still loyal to this belief, as you say, Mr Ertl would probably not have arrested me in 1988 and sent me to prison, but would have elected me then to the Central Committee, as many of you have on this list. There's no duplicity here. It'd be a duplicity if I denied it. I'm always up for both pay. And that is precisely why we deeply regret that there is no President of the Republic here today, because only in this debate, if you ask me questions and he answers, could come up with a plan for both salaries and things would be cleared up. In the end, it may be possible for him to express at least some conditional regret for the pain he suffered with this decoration to the thousands of victims of the Judgment and their relatives, and we would consider withdrawing the constitutional charge. But he came here for an hour, arrogantly demanded that we withdraw the constitutional charge, he was not willing to answer our questions, even fewer questions from the press outside and he left. And here's the duplicity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. What are the consequences of such bombings, such as in Veliovac, today you can also monitor media from Middle East and Middle East Asian countries. These are actions that cause large and unnecessary victims against those who are probably not at fault. Many of you have spoken here about not dealing with the past, but you are permanently, constantly returning to the past. Not long ago, in Ljubljana, a street was opened or named after the former president of the common country, the dictator Josip Broz Tito. And also those who have read our return to the past, in fact, you have actively supported this act, including the President of the Republic with your statements. That's not good enough. Moreover, those who were the main human rights violators during this period actually receive state distinctions. However, I would like to remind you that we have not had the opportunity to address the European Parliament's resolution on the condemnation of totalitarianism for a short time. It made it clear in this resolution that some Eastern European countries actually have a dual legacy: Nazi and also communist. It is necessary to remember all those who actively opposed totalitarian rule and who should have a place in the minds of Europeans as totalitarian heroes because of their sacrifices, their loyalty to ideals, their honor and their courage. And also that respect must be expressed for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and should be given to all those who have fought against tyranny and oppression. It also says that the latest crimes against humanity and genocide took place in July 1995. And that all crimes against humanity, mass violations of human rights and so on must be condemned with determination and clarity. I ask you which of these points of the declaration has been promoted by the President. Not one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will also vote after this debate against the proposal to accuse the President of the country because the debate has not convinced us that your accusation is justified. However, it has convinced us that you choose individual pieces, that you do not want them, and you do not know how to put them together, that you are making accusations against an individual or against an organization unrelated to which time, for which acts. I think that, through this debate, it has been clear that once again the desire of the SDS is to show in any way everything that has happened until 15 May 1990 as a complete totalitarian criminal system. What is the purpose of this desire? Do you think it will be easier to get in power over this desire? Do you think you're going to convince everyone that this is the truth every day when you walk away from me, not from me, who you think I'm a vicious communist, but from people who have lived and worked normally in health care, in culture, in journalism, in businesses, and say that your performances and your picture of this period are completely different. Mr. Pojbich, you showed me my name and last name on one of the lists. Yeah. I've never hidden it. Much less than Mr. Janša. And I'm proud to be on a lot of lists that you're making, because even where you're picking up my guilt, I don't have any guilt. If I had it, I would have had it a long time ago, as Mr Janša did in 1990, when he wanted to tell me that I was hunting bears as a functionary in Kočevska. I guess that's what she remembers. But it was a trifle, maybe he doesn't have it in his memory, and I do, because that's the first time I've ever had a fat lie on the part of Mr. Janša against me. Let me get this straight. We will vote against it. However, we are prepared, but not in Parliament, at any time in any other way to organise an activity that would reveal to honest historians what has been going on from 1945 to 1990. Because we all know that we do not have honest data on your part, what the organization was called, when it acted, where it worked, under whose command it acted to have data on where and when trials were determined. Today, thousands were talked about, tens of thousands of victims. We do not know whether tragic events are involved with directly after the war-killed patriots, where the number can then be such as whether these are post-war political trials, which would be interesting to hear because we do not know this truth. Things are taken from the crumbs, puffed up, pieced together in a story from which it should be seen that there is a great discovery on your part before the Slovenian people. Now the final questions you are asking suggest that the President of the State, Dr. Danilo Turk, should be associated with some of the activities of the Udba. These are all stories that need to be directed in a different way, not with half data, with half-false, half-proven stories. There's just so much evidence that there are some facts, and we can't get to the end. If you want, let me do it. I'm willing to take part in this. Just the stories you've shown this time are just proof of your way of working, to accuse [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] With half-truths to be of political benefit. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u233	The list of panellists is exhausted. The proposaler Janez Janša asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u234	Here you go, Mr. Potsch. There are a lot of people living in Slovenia right now, who have lived more or less normal at the time we are talking about. They didn't know what the Uprising was doing, they believed that Slovenian monuments in Koroskem were destroying and lubricating heimadienst, as they probably did. They believed that the information of Western media about the bombs in Koroška, which exploded, was hostile propaganda. They protested against German chauvinism in Austria's Koroška along the Ljubljana streets. Me, too. That was the information. And no one denies that fact. The wedding was a secret. The whole process of this assassination in Velivac and the investigations, as many as there were, and also all the political debates on this subject were marked 'State secrecy' at the time. Even though we have determined by law that this is no longer a State secret, the services of the National Assembly, when we asked for this to be divided, and this is the documentation that has been publicly available in the archives for years, have been afraid of what it is now. This fear is still working. But as you say, we can't deny that at the time one part of the population lived normally, had jobs and came to apartments, even more so as it was in the trough. Read Mr Mikola's book The Privilege of Political Officials in the previous system. These are interesting lists, not those in this book that talk about political functions. Those lists in the book of privileges, however, are very interesting, Mr Ptrč, have nothing to do with communist ideals. And perhaps it would be good to discuss this when it comes to social rights. As this cannot be denied, it is not possible to deny that thousands of people were suffering in part. There's also this part of the story that you don't want to see. That is why you did not come to the Commission for Petitions when people spoke about their tragic experiences, so this anger is from Mrs Potrate when this topic opens up. You don't want to see this. And to honor the head of the secret political police, who directly carried out these things, of course, under political cover, is in some way symbolically a decoration of crime, is to deny the suffering of thousands, taking into account the relatives, tens of thousands of people who still live and you still have them as second-class citizens. As for the questions raised to the President of the Republic, which you say are insinuations If the President of the Republic were here, he could have answered everything and things would have been cleared up in a moment. [[...]] It's very hard to tell someone over the table without a connection if he can answer. However, it is in the parliamentary debate, because we are not a court, we propose a constitutional indictment to the Constitutional Court. They will decide there on the basis of legal arguments. Here we are just discussing the arguments put forward. And there's a lot of submissions. They keep saying there's no evidence. Is that possible air? Is there a document forged here? What's the big deal? I didn't hear any of the government coalition go down the list and say it's not true, it's not true, and it's not true. There was no hero to face concrete evidence. None objected to any of the evidence presented by the drafters of the constitutional indictment. And you've got the material in time, and you've got one month. You didn't get them now because this book just published what you got with the material. And the repetition, the constant repetition of the lie that the North proposed a medal when it was proved not so at that time. No law enforcement agency in the North has made that decision. It was a special action. To reward the winners, it was only a special action and that other things were not taken into account here. That's a lot of scheming, too. The President of the Republic used to protest some comparisons. I said it was the same as giving Hitler a posthumous medal because he was building highways in Germany. And we'd forget all the other things he did. Or that Dr. Mengele, who was doing medical experiments on the campers, should be awarded a medical award. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u235	Comrade Janš, I would ask you to keep an eye on the words you speak here in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u236	I'm a word keeper.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u237	No, Comrade Janš, don't be careful, I ask you to use comparative comparisons, but not such abstract and absurd comparisons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u238	What is absurd is whether the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or the one interpreting it can decide. There is no greater absurdity than to grant a state award to the head of the organisation, which the Supreme Court of the same country, represented by the President of the State who awarded the medal, has declared a criminal association. There is no greater absurdity, Mr President of the National Assembly, but we have not heard you raise your voice to other representative functions in the country against this absurdity. And if we're talking about North action now. At that time, one party leadership in Slovenia defended itself against the party leadership of another republic. At the same time, it had some support from some federal authorities, who were also threatened by these Milosevic rallies. All that we know about the history of events at that time is perfectly clear. But there was no dilemma when it was necessary to gather between Slovenian party leadership and Milosevic, there was no dilemma in Slovenia. That is why this action of the North also had human support, and that is why police officers or militiamen took it as a form of defense of their own sovereignty, and there was no dispute in this regard. I was the festive speaker myself a few years ago on the North Association's anniversary of this campaign. But never before, never until 2009, has Ertle's medal been at this celebration. Interestingly, he was never invited in his 20 ’ s if he was so deserving and in charge. But there was no spring government at that time, and there were others. And the former President of the Republic, who was 10 years President and was the political chief of Mr Ertl for a long, long time, did not honor him. It was decorated by the current president of the Republic. He says it's because of the North. If this is about the North, then the first Slovenian railways, or Slovenian Railway Union, which first made a public statement that the rallyers would not drive. It was only then that the congregation’s decree was adopted and so forth. This was done by people of patriotic consciousness. Not to be paid for it, not to be protected. However, when it comes to official bodies, they were paid and obliged to protect public order and peace. And those who were paid for it received a medal, those who did so out of a patriotic consciousness were neither mentioned nor invited to a celebration. If it were actually a North action, it would have really happened. If it were an action by the North, there would also be a medal in addition to the Ertle medallion by those members of the Slovenian police who participated in the North Action and were also later carriers of the self-sustaining actions or actions by which the independence was protected by real force. But none of these were decorated. The chief of the Udba and the members of the then militia, who were close to the Udbi or were its reservists, were decorated. So, this wasn't a medal for the North Action, it was a medal for the Udba. And the performance by the President of the Republic today, which represented in 20 years of the existence of a independent Slovenian state the most emotionally heated performance in defence of the organization of the Udba, was reaffirmed. And again, we have heard that this decision was well thought out. If she was well thought out, and apparently she was, then everything has to be done to clear things up. I hope that the President of the Republic will answer the very specific questions that have been asked, without disqualification, without arrogance and without anyone in Slovenia imagining that he can be above the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I owe you a business explanation. As I mentioned at the outset, Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the SDS Group, submitted additional material this afternoon, proposing to distribute it to the audience in the National Assembly. According to its content, part of this material represents new evidence in the prosecution proceedings and the President, who was charged, had no opportunity to prepare for oral or written replies to additional materials. Therefore, I did not allow this material to be viewed as material at this point, nor did I allow the distribution to be made in the hall. Nevertheless, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has divided them, which means a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I am particularly reminding you of. Regardless of what you think, the President, who is accused, has the right to study and answer. No procedural questions or comments can be found on this explanation. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. It is available for discussion for 13 minutes. I'm asking you to sign up. 15 debaters and debaters have been reported. The time is 13 minutes, so we have less than a minute to discuss, so I suggest we not hold this additional debate. Do we agree? [[Yeah.]] I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly at 3 p.m. and 3 p.m. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and also interrupt the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which, as I said, will be resumed by the vote at 3 p.m. and 35 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u240	Ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Family Code. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a family code is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I request an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. First of all, an explanation on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic People's Party, presented by the parties to France Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u242	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u243	Those days or yesterday and today we were Members, probably all, virtually on their computers, smothered by public protests, civil society against this code. There is nothing more appropriate to explain our position than to mention one of the reflections of those to whom this code is intended. Few marriages are as important directly for the intimate life of an individual or in a family such as this code. Allow me to read a lady's e-mail. She arrived at 3:30 today. You probably got it, but you didn't have time to read it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u244	I'm asking for your attention and your attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u245	This is what the lady says: "I am accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly, at which you are considering the proposal for a family code and I was forced to express my position. I'm the mother of two adopted children who are both students. When they learned that there was also the possibility of adopting children by same-sex partners in the proposal for our new law, they were appalled, saying, "Who has the right under our constitution, the general moral principles and the thousand-year experience of adopting fathers and mothers to children who cannot make their own decisions." Who has the right to take the opportunity to learn the role and influence of mother and father by man and woman." And then this lady adds, "And now, as the mother of two adopted children, I ask you, do you really hope to do this to poor children, all of you who are wise in the National Assembly and do not have this experience?"
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Vito Rožej Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today, we also received a lot of e - mail from people who do not have such parental experience. And there's nothing wrong with that. Each of us can have an opinion on such important matters. It is important that we know these opinions in a reasonable and rational way to face and see what this family code is about. It is clear that the changes it brings to many are hard to comprehend, but it is necessary to know that none of these changes affect any of the rights that have been given so far. As it is said, the family code does not take anything from anyone, but it also gives rights to those who have not. He gives the children the most rights. His greatest attention is in the principle of child's benefit. This was also understood from discussions that did not support the code itself. Today we have this proposal in our first reading. The decision we are going to make is whether it is suitable for further consideration. In the Group of Members, we really firmly believe that it is suitable for further consideration. More than that. But all right, today's the first step. I think we'll all be thinking about the future of our children when we make decisions on this family code, at least the ones who give us this gift. I am confident that by confirming this family code in the first reading, I will do something good for my children. Not because this proposal may expose them to things that others consider inappropriate for a child. But because I believe that these things in the family code are urgent and reflective of the time we live. After 30 years of changing family legislation, it is time to adapt our legislation to social reality. We recognize that traditional families live with us, that single - parent families live with us, and that same - sex families live with us. In particular, children living in these families need to draw some things and solutions that may be quite radical, but they are certainly urgent, from a democratic state's point of view, which rejects discrimination and puts human values at the very top of its value system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good solutions to this law are only introduced into the law so that in and through the procedure in Parliament the deviants, which some want to legislate, can be brought in. I think, and in the Slovenian National Party we consider it to be an abuse of procedure, abuse of the Slovenian national body, abuse of Slovenian history and abuse of the Slovenian public. Something like this has never happened in Slovenia. However, given the circumstances of these various garage coalitions and the like, we may think that we will [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u250	Mr. Jelinčič, please keep an eye on the words you use. That's the first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u251	You can give me three reminders right from the start, and I'll keep going. The fact is, the starting points that you too, Mr President, are strange. It's kind of strange that I won't use another word. But next time I can speak Latin so you don't know what I'm saying, and you'll get the translation, and you'll get it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u252	Mr. Jelinčič, second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u253	[[...]] [[Laugh.]] Well, I'm really glad, and then you're gonna give me another reproof, and my mom's gonna come to school or something. [[...]] [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Okay, well, there's your leadership at this level, Mr. President. [[...]] I'm sorry. A man would expect us to sit in the National Assembly of a country, but it seems that we are sitting in a circle of some school assets in 1965. The fact is that what the coalition wants to bring through the procedure is unacceptable. And if not elsewhere, even if today it will be by the power of your leading politicians, who ask you to legitimize them by this law, if this is adopted, I think you will be judged by the Slovenian people in the next elections. And I hope that then and since then you will never be in politics again, because the damage you will do to the Slovenian people will be terrible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u254	Thank you very much. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Embassy is given by Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! We will not support the draft decision in the parliamentary group. Already in the public presentation of opinions in all statements and debates, in a letter to the Minister, the President of the Government, we stressed that most of the solutions are good, that the Government or the Ministry has drawn up a long-awaited code, but that the definition of the family is certainly controversial for us, with regard to the equality of the family community of same-sex partners and consequently the possibility of adopting children of same-sex partners. For us and for most citizens, it is reasonable to maintain the existing arrangement of marriage as a community of husband and wife, the importance of which is to establish a suitable environment for mutual respect and the birth of children. We agree that, under the second law, certain problems of same-sex partners need to be resolved, particularly in the area of property law, inheritance and the like, as is also the case with the Constitutional Court's decision. As it is said, I expect that the code will not receive support today and the Ministry will have the opportunity to re-establish the code without these controversial provisions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will reject the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat that in the Group of the Social Democrats we will support the law or the bill. We will support it because it recognises the social reality and acknowledges that not only one type of family exists in this society, but there is a whole range of families in which almost half of the Slovenian population lives. We also demand, on behalf of these families, the regulation of the same rights of children and social parents who care for these children. On the other hand, we will support the law because it is in line with the Constitution, which in Article 14, guarantees all citizens of our country the same rights, regardless of their personality. Thirdly, we will support the law because it fully implements the requirement of the Convention on the Rights of the Child that that child's rights lead to maximum management of activities and procedures relating to children in family relations. All the fears, all the fears you call about this arrangement, are gone. Therefore, also on behalf of those who wrote us a letter of support of a different kind, in order to defend the interests of those, we will support the law or the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. First explanation for Branko Grimes' voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u259	Your Honor! Today is a meeting when it is actually about fundamental human values. The decision before us concerns the very foundation of this country. Does any authority have the right in advance to take away any child’s fundamental right to have both a mother and a father? I firmly believe that no authority has this legitimacy to do this with the law in advance. Moreover, I argue that such a proposal is also illegal and should not at all appear in the National Assembly, because, under the Slovenian Constitution, ratified international treaties and acts bind this country and can even be used directly in certain cases. The fundamental general declaration on human rights of the United Nations in its article 16 unequivocally states that they have the right to enter into a marriage and to establish a family of full-year men and women. Both sexes are specifically mentioned and there is "in" in between, ladies and gentlemen. So this provision is cumulative; it is not an alternative, such as the proposal you are advocating, or a full-year-old male or a full-year-old woman. They're not even allowed to do both. It defines here what family is in international law. So the base cell of society, composed of men, women and children. Moreover, Article 16 finally stipulates that the family is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to social State protection. With this provision, the proposed law is clearly contrary and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you very much. An explanation for Roberto Battelli's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I'll try to describe the dilemma I'm having about adoption. For example, for the adoption of a child, heterosexual couples and homosexual couples compete under the same conditions. To whom, then, will adoption be granted?Oh, my God! I understand the need for non-discrimination. But the situations that will arise will appear at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thank you very much. An explanation for Dr. Luke Juri's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal of the Code because it allows the elimination of unfair treatment because it eliminates the fact that a child will be treated unjustly only because his parents dared to have genuine love.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u264	Please, peace in the hall! Voice explanation, Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the law because it is good because it has been proven to significantly improve the situation of the child, families, improves the relationship between members of different types of families and allows the traditional family to continue normally, adding, also extending rights to other communities. If the traditional family were threatened because certain rights were added, this would mean that the traditional family is unnatural. But since this is not the case, the traditional family will survive and develop further and remain the majority. Those who feel otherwise fear the identity of a traditional family. This law guarantees the existence of a traditional family and guarantees the rights of other communities, and in particular guarantees the rights of all children without discrimination.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! A child like Yuri's colleague said isn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u268	Mr. Puksich, there's no controversy. Wait a minute, Mr. Puksic, there's no controversy. So far, no one's had any problems with anyone else, and I'm asking you not to. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u269	There is no child like that where parents dared to tell their parents that they love each other. There's no child like that. I ask you, dear fellow Members, raise your hands to those who want your child to come or to come to your child's same-sex partner family. Raise your hands how many of you there are in this room. Three out of the '90s, three out of the '90s want it. This gives you the right to the child and gives you the right to the same-sex partners. It's violence against children. It is no wonder, therefore, that he read my fellow Member Tsuckati's written mother, whom I know very well, when she wrote down "who has the right under our constitution, general moral principles and thousands of years of experience to take a father and mother to children who cannot make their own decisions". We don't have that right. You don't have that right. You can vote with the arrogance of a coalition majority, but you know that you will not bring nature around and not even the Slovenian nation. That's why he's gonna pay you back, and the people will remember that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian National Party, we are appalled and disgusted by some of the proposed provisions of the Family Code. I mean specifically the provisions that allow homosexuals or I'll be famous for domestic, gay, adoption. [[...]] [[Dig up the mic.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u272	Mr Györek, please use the appropriate words and do not use the word with offensive connotations. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u273	Mr President, I use the strict language of the Slovenian book language, the words where this word is not misled by the code of vulg. - vulgar, but conversational, and it marks homosexuals. Okay, well, if you don't like it, we can say either the heat guys or the two bikers or what I know what you want. That's what this is about. Under the pretext of civilization's achievement, the current government and the coalition are actually succeeding to achieve what they seem to want and need. And that's terrible. We are all aware here of the fact that the Slovenian people do not want it. Not only does he not want to, he even rejects. Today we have witnessed protests in front of parliament, up on the bleachers, and if we can't think of anything, then we really have come a long way. Homosexuals apparently succeed in Slovenian society. The privileges of homosexuals, the protection of power has already been as evident as I have told the case of that homosexual, a slightly more playful Slovenian boy, today has triggered law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u274	Please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u275	anti-terrorist action by special police units. [[...]] If this was just a Janek, I'm sure the traffic cop wouldn't take that kind of action. Unfortunately, this is happening, and it's gonna get worse. Therefore, please consider what you are doing and what damage you will do to the Slovenian nation if you adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you, Madam President. This family code cannot be supported because it is simply a matter of the fact that such a law, which you will vote on, will carry out a very serious abuse of the child, for no one will ask if such parents want to have it. And this child will also be despised throughout all the years of school, in a nine-year-old. I have, believe me, passed all court cases, already received a ruling in the Constitutional Court, now I'm in Strasbourg for fags and I'll probably get a positive solution there too. I can put it that way. I hope I don't get sued for that. Why was I sued? Because I stated in this Chamber that there was probably no parent who wished to have such a defined child. And I believe that such children, or if they pleaded for it, they should accept it, but the individual's wish is not to have such a child. When I spoke about the protection of children's rights, which you forget today, homosexuals were disgusted, and when there was a parade of pride in front of the National Assembly, they wanted to transparent the "death of a Friend". That's when none of my colleagues came to my side to tell them, in fact, that's rude. When we talk about this, it's a kind of perversion, because you forget that people in the country have nothing to eat and they don't have bills to pay. Instead of devoting one of the long meetings to this issue, we deal with deleted, gypsies and homosexuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u278	Mr. Friend, this is a typical hate speech for textbooks. Procedural proposal? I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, Flower of Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Some of you today have cited, as an argument for their decision, extensive correspondence and letters that have been received mainly by those who do not support the adoption of the family code. I would like to mention maybe just two statements, where there are explicit arguments why this should be supported. The first is Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman, who said, among other things, that we are full of human rights, but this is until the time when a family code is to be adopted and certain rights are granted to same-sex partners, and some consequences are also accepted. At that moment, human rights are no longer available. The second statement and the warning we received came from a campaign for all families. They wanted us to draw attention to the opinion and position of Klemna Jelinčič Boeta, anthropologist and sociologist, son of Victory Jelinčič and the late poets of Bert Boet, who in his recorded statement unequivocally said that the family code supports, because he believes that it is necessary to become more modern and free thinking, that any step should be taken forward and that it is right that a person believes in the equality of people. I'm glad the sons think differently than their fathers. I also agree with their opinion, so I will support the first reading of the family code.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I won't support the family code. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia from Articles 53 to 56 deals specifically with the family. And in each of these four articles of the Slovenian Constitution there are also rights and the situation of children. No article of the Slovenian Constitution contains the rights of homosexuals individually. I think it would be right for those who have the option of free decision to give birth to their children and who do not take advantage of this, not being able to do so by special law, and this family code is now a special law, to give them the right to have the opportunity to adopt children. Even when we have in Article 56 of the Constitution it is stated that children enjoy special protection. Children enjoy these human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with their age and maturity. Children are given special protection against economic, social, physical, mental and other exploitation and abuse. And that's how protection is governed by the law. And now, some specific provisions, some special rights of a group that is not and does not decide on the free birth of their children, are being transposed by a family law. I think it's right to allow children to adopt those who are a heterosexual family, but let's say they can't have children, and these are relatively large. There is no need for special groups, special forms of groups and families to be dealt with exclusively by special law. We do not regulate any rights under this family law for others, but for those who are not in this form in the Constitution, such as children.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its own name Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u283	The Slovenian Constitution does not specifically mention the rights of homosexuals in any of its articles. In spite of everything in Slovenian law, there is a law written specifically for them. The new family code will put an end to this disharmony. It will give everyone the same rights as the Slovenian Constitution. Slovenian society already has about 100 children in such same-sex families, according to estimates. They were freely chosen primarily by same-sex women. 98% of these families are like this. I think that today's positive decision on this bill will primarily support their free decision for children. True, they do not have the opportunity to do so at home, but they have the opportunity to do so abroad. And life always finds its way. And I don't think we're here to restrict him, but we're here to sort him out. And that's what we're doing with this proposal for a family code. I'm sure none of us will let our minds go to sleep about what his family is like. Family is something we keep to ourselves, we think about it all well, and we do not leave it to anyone else to tell us what our family should be like, but, of course, none of us should take the right to prescribe to anyone else what his family should be like. This society, this country, has grown on this very freedom, and of course this would apply at all times to our society. One of the last possible ones is the area of the family, and I think we have to decide here that we will simply live and let others live. That's why I'm going to support this family code.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u284	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up. There's still a desire to explain your voice in your own name. Mr. Battelli, you've already explained your voice. But you used to explain in your own name. Can't give you again [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u285	It's like a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u286	No, no. You have previously explained on behalf of the Group of Members. No, in your own name, you explained earlier. The groups of Members have already completed their explanations of vote and I cannot give you my word on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u287	No, I'm not like a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u288	I'll give you an explanation for your vote on my behalf. You had two minutes to explain your voice on your behalf. I can't give any more. Not even as a task force, because it's over. Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich, explanation of voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u289	I have been in Parliament since 9 a.m. today, and I swear to God that I have listened attentively to this debate all the time. I was angry, and I calmed down, and I was quiet. I tried to understand one argument or another, but I can't take it at the end. I can't say today's story didn't remind me of Ivan Cankar. I think he already knew you, even the coalition. When he wrote "and the word is converted, it is spoken before". Today you have all performed an excellent test of political wisdom. But most painfully, I speak on behalf of all, for all the speakers, today, with words in eight hours and now fifteen children have been abused. You've all made excuses for the children, but he didn't do it for them, and there'll be no one, nothing. At the very least, social work centres and at least this law. And at least a new article, a new legal regime for same-sex communities and legal recognition of adoptions. Apparently, the laws are written to break. How difficult it would be to withdraw from the marriage and show a willingness to help. But abuse is too much. It's impossible to say yes to a marriage like that, and that's why I won't tell him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his name Victory Jelinčič Trinitarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you very much. My colleague used to talk about my son. My son has a different opinion, and that's democratic, and that's right. I don't mind. This is just proof that we are democratic in the Slovenian National Party and that you, gentlemen of the coalition, are not. Otherwise, we wouldn't apostrophe like, "Look, Jelinčič thinks one thing and his son thinks the other." And that just proves the perversion of these coalition ladies and gentlemen who are trying to do such things [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u292	No controversy, Mr. Jelinčič. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u293	I knew it. [[....]] [[Laugh.]] They want to use it against me and against the client. The fact is, my son's an educated humanist, I'm a naturalist. Naturalists view nature from a natural point of view. Humanists look at nature from a strange point of view, philosophically, sociologically, I would say, somehow communicative, but I don't know what else is being taught at the FDV. So understand that those who have studied real science know more about life than those who have, say, studied Hegel and Heidegger, if at all. If they didn't study only Karl Marx in short version, preferably in a comic book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u294	Thank you very much. You're lucky. You've been saved for two minutes. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 38. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for an indictment by the President of the Republic before the Constitutional Court for violations of the Constitution and for serious violations of the law. We move on to a decision on the following motion for a decision: "The National Assembly accuses the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Danil Türk, of violating 2, 5, 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 49, 51, 58, 59, 61, 63, and 104, Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, 33/91, 42/97, 66/2000, 24/2003, 69/04, 68/06 and 348, 350 and 357 of the Penal Code, Official Journal of Slovenia 55/08 and 39/09, in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Marks of the Republic of Slovenia, Official Gazette of Slovenia, 69/04." In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 63 of the Constitutional Court Act, a majority of the members of the National Assembly, 46 or more, should vote in order to adopt that decision. We vote, the vote is on. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 52. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted by the National Assembly and therefore the motion for an indictment is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 32nd A-point of the agenda, that is to say, on the request of the assembly of Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund, EPA-897/5. The group of 25 Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, submitted a request on 24 February 2010. I give the text to the representative of the proposer of the request to Joseph Tank for explanation of his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, one small comment, at the previous point, you were very quick to vote. You haven't asked or given anything [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u296	I looked.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u297	that there would be some interest in explaining the voice. [[...]] I see that that last point was very much in your interest to get out of the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u298	May I have peace in the hall? I'll explain. You don't have to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u299	This requirement made by Members of our parliamentary group relates to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund. What's this all about? The National Assembly took note of the Slovenian exit strategy 2010-2013. One important emphasis in this Slovenian exit strategy was to reduce the deficit by 2013 at a total of €1.2 billion and €400 million per year, by adjusting the dynamics slightly. On the previous day, the Government sent to the National Assembly a bill on the said fund, which, according to the Government, explains the financial implications of an additional EUR 440 million of financial burdens or converted EUR 660 million. This raises a serious question as to whether the Government will account for these additional funds, which it will have to pay to the IMF, in the Slovenian exit strategy or not. After all that we are listening and reading, it is obvious that these funds in this exit strategy have not been taken into account and only by this law has the Government destroyed its forecast to save 400 million euros in one year, as this burden will be 10% higher than the average annual savings in this three-year period. But these are not all burdens. In addition, this amendment will have financial implications for exchange rate differences and for plasma costs of approximately EUR 5.3 million, and then the costs that will be required to ensure the statutory obligations of the Republic of Slovenia for the financing of World Bank projects of EUR 1.6 million, plus additional costs in the special rights trading system of EUR 900 000 per year. This law, which is short, is extremely burdensome for the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. It would therefore be appropriate for the Government and the coalition to allow for a normal debate and an explanation of whether these funds are necessary and necessary and so on. With these short-term emergency procedures, the Government is fully ignoring what should be presented to the Members of the National Assembly in a clear and dignified manner. Especially those laws that have such enormous financial implications. There are few laws that we have adopted in this mandate in the National Assembly, which have so great financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and for the Republic of Slovenia. I think it would be right for Members to support our request that this decision, which has established a reduced procedure, is not supported and that this law is then dealt with in a regular procedure and we get all the necessary information that is not easily available from this reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College without discussion and explanation of vote. That's why we're moving on to a decision. I give the decision to vote: The draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund - EPA 897 /5, shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 48, for 37. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I owe it to you before I go to the next point for a brief explanation. At the previous point, I looked at the House before the vote, especially after the Group of Members, which proposed an indictment. Since there was no response, I went to the vote as usual. Procedurally. Please, Breda Bakan, procedurally. Procedural about what?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u301	It's about this point that's coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u302	After it's open.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u303	I have a procedural suggestion that we deal with this point tomorrow or tomorrow or vote because it is the hour, say and write, midnight and 21 minutes, and I think it would be appropriate if we could go to bed now and vote on these answers to Members' questions tomorrow, when the time is more normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u304	Dear colleague, I do not intend to put this motion to the vote. This is a matter of timing for the National Assembly, which I have set up. But the clock is not so late that we can't make that decision. That is why I am moving on to the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the resolution of the border issue with Croatia." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Although I know that you will not accept this proposal, I am just putting my mind at your disposal once again to make sense of this. We'd learn a lot, we'd miss out on a lot, and then we'd make more smart moves in our decision-making on national matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Zvonk Černač's question on the exit strategy. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Sreč Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a source responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Boštjan Žekš, on the question of Mr Žeks's question concerning the situation of the Slovenian minority in Hungary. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, Happy Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Assembly Commission recently visited the Hungarian Slovenes and learned about the situation there, which is not pink. Slovenians in Hungary live in catastrophic conditions. In fact, it's an eccentric violation of human rights. In Slovenian kindergartens, children eat literally from military mines and the only school, which is not Slovenian because there are no Slovenian teachers, is equipped with equipment used in Slovenian schools, so it was donated by Slovenian schools. The signed agreement they insisted that we sign, Hungary in the 1990s, was misused by Hungary. Slovenia allocates more than EUR 20 million of aid to the Hungarian Slovenes, while Hungary does not devote anything to the Slovenians living in Hungary. The situation is, as we say, catastrophic. In order to do something, we need to have a debate in Parliament, as we are also reminded by the Slovenians, who are increasingly few in this area of Hungary. If we don't see it and we don't want to see it, we don't want to help, let me just tell you what the benefits are - and it's right that they are - Hungarian Slovenians, if we can call them that. They have their own studio, over 40 journalists working at the RTV regional studio for Hungarian purposes. They have their own library, they have an expert who advises the use of Hungarian. They also have their own medium. They also have their own newspaper, their own club, their own library. We could have seen it all. The full use of bilingualism is introduced in Slovenia. All documents are printed bilingually. Most importantly, in Slovenia, Hungarian is also spoken in this field in the offices. It's not a ghost, it's not on the Hungarian side. Slovenians also complain about the difficulty of obtaining jobs and that they are in some way neglected. When we pointed this out to the Hungarian delegation, they answered us, of course, we asked them to devote at least a few hundred thousand euros that we should have under this agreement, they replied that they could not do so because they had major problems with the Gypsies. That's what they called them, not me. Since there are many, they must be provided with financial needs and therefore put the Slovenians aside. We've been waiting for them for hours. This attitude, a rude attitude toward the Slovenians, has already proved to be in this waiting state. A respected choir! If we do not hold this debate, I inform you that the Slovenian National Party will trigger this problem within the Council of Europe. It's an eccentric violation of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question by Dr Petr Verlic concerning tolls in 2009. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to the question by Dr Petr Verlic concerning the possible course of international transport corridors across Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the procedure for the adoption of the last amendment to the Law on Lawyery. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Secretary-General of the Government of Milan Martin Cwickl to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the issue of the power to represent the public interest. We're voting. I'm sorry. Break up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, on its own behalf? Is there a group that would like to explain before that? [[He doesn't want to.]] An explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Andrej Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you for your word. There was a little reaction. However, this matter is supra-party or non-party. On the issue of legal corrections in the Baricevic case, we will identify ourselves at the time of the interpretation against the Minister of Agriculture. This question, which Mr Gorenak has asked, is one segment of this issue. I also carefully reviewed the Secretary's response, it was logically structured, but unfortunately he did not respond to what was actually asked. The Prime Minister himself has called for the full and clear clearance of this issue. Before we come to interpolation, it is right that we all ask ourselves how things have been going on, so that we can vote in our conscience, not on our own, not on our own side, but in fact on this matter is a much broader issue, the issue of legal systems, two types of legal order, the question of elitism, connections and everything that has opened up in this matter. I think it is right for all of us to shed light on the things that Mr. Gorenak has pointed out that I myself wanted. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u310	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u311	Just a minute. It is simply a fundamental question. In accordance with the law of 2006-2009, the Supreme Court, in the case of Bulmastifs, decides that this power is not valid and that a new mandate is required every time. The Office of Defence has requested this, the General Secretariat of the Government has never issued a mandate, so the Office of the Ombudsman could not be represented in this matter. That's why I asked for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u312	Thank you very much. We vote, the vote is on. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Sreč Krijata, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Majda Širc to the question of Mr Sreč Friends on the use of funds for regional radio and television programmes in the bilingual area. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 49. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovška, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question of Mr Jerovska's delegation concerning the values in the field of the Ministry of the Interior. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] In his name, Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you very much. This decision is not entirely correct, but I asked the Minister what order it was in the German way when she said, "Namibia knows that it has been a German colony for a long time and the Germans can establish order." The minister admires the order established by colonial masters on the tip of bayonets, with terror, genocide, killing more than half of the population of the two nations and enslavementing the rest of the population in gold mines. For such an order, the Minister is thrilled and we fear that it is the interior minister who is essentially a police minister. Such statements and the enthusiasm for such an order shall be immediately withdrawn in the functioning democracies. You remember, colleagues and colleagues, that under Nazism Germany had a good employment policy, Jörg Haider had to withdraw immediately from the post of head of state of Koroška in 1991. In her reply, the Minister arrogantly pretended that she did not really understand her statements. It is therefore necessary to hold a debate because it is a dangerous threat to peace and democracy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 36, for 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Grill's question on the advice of Slovenian Railways. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 to 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkš, to the question of Roma issues. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 to 49. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Guid Kres, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of Mr Kres's question on the regulation on environmental taxes for the removal and cleaning of waste water. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 34, for 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonka Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a source responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkš, to the question of Mr Zvonka Lah on the 5th call for municipalities. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 14th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
